Enochian
World of
Aleister
Crowley

Enochian World of
Aleister Crowley
Enochian Sex Magick
By
Aleister Crowley
Lon Milo DuQuette
Christopher S. Hyatt, Ph.D.
1991
New Falcon Publications
Scottsdale, AZ U.S.A.

COPYRIGHT © U.S.E.S.S. 1991
All rights reserved. No part of this book, in part or in whole, may be
reproduced, transmitted, or utilized, in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any
information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from
the publisher, except for brief quotations in critical articles, books and
reviews.
International Standard Book Number: 1-56184-029-7
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 91-060791
First Edition 1991
NEW FALCON PUBLICATIONS
7025 E. 1st Ave. Suite 5
Scottsdale, Arizona 85251 U.S.A.
(602)246-3846

DEDICATION
TO
MASTER THERION
CONSTANCE AND JEAN-PAUL
GARY AND CINDY

FURTHER CONSPIRACIES !
If you would like to read further on the New Age Conspiracy to elevate
Man's consciousness on this planet and elsewhere, get the following titles
from your book dealer or order from New Falcon Publications directly:
Undoing Yourself With Energized Meditation
Secrets of Western Tantra
The Magickal Mind of Zarathustra
Secrets Of A Western Master (with Gary Ford)
All By Christopher S. Hyatt, Ph.D.
The Ultimate Divination Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
A. Crowley, C.S. Hyatt, Ph.D. and L. DuQuette
The Complete Tarot System of Magick
Tarot Cards by L. DuQuette , illus. by D. Wilson
Cosmic Trigger
Cosmic Trigger II
Quantum Psychology
All By Robert Anton Wilson
Little Essays Toward Truth
Equinox of The Gods
The Heart of The Master
Magick Without Tears
Eight Lectures On Yoga
The Law Is For All
Gems From The Equinox
By Aleister Crowley
Freedom Is A Two Edged Sword
By Jack Parsons
Info-Psychology
By Timothy Leary, Ph.D.
What You Should Know About The Golden Dawn
The Complete Golden Dawn System of Magic
By Israel Regardie
To get your free catalog of all of our titles, write to:
NEW FALCON PUBLICATIONS
Catalog Dept.
7025 E. 1ST. Ave. Suite 5
SCOTTSDALE, AZ. 85251
U.S.A.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The authors wish to express their thanks to Gary Ford for his
invaluable aid and brilliant contributions; to Nick Tharcher for Book and
Type design; to David P. Wilson for Cover design and the execution of the
Sex Magick Symbols.
New Falcon Publications would also like to express its thanks for
the Cover Art and the Sex Magick Symbols which are from Mr. DuQuette's
Complete Tarot System of Magick. The captions below the Sex Magick
Symbols are the creation of Dr. Hyatt and Mr. DuQuette. Finally, we would
like to express our gratitude to Rick Wardell for the photographs of Mr.
DuQuette and Dr. Hyatt.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Foreword....................................................................... 13
Introduction................................................................... 15
Chapter One
A Short, Brief History (Abridged).................................. 19
Chapter Two
Before We Start Let's Get Something
Straight......................................................................... 21
Chapter Three
The Ten Minute Overview............................................ 25
Chapter Four
Comments On Liber LXXXIV vel Chanokh...................31
Chapter Five
Liber LXXXIV vel Chanokh.......................................... 61
Chapter Six
Divine Eroticism......................................................... 103
Chapter Seven
Techniques Of Enochian Sex Magick........................ 109
Chapter Eight
The Enochian Dictionary ...........................................123
Chapter Nine
The Lesser Ritual of the Hexagram............................141
Appendix................................................................... 145
Sex Magick Symbols................................................. 155

Foreword
By Christopher S. Hyatt, Ph.D.
How do you know when you are really beginning to understand a
subject?
When you come to the realization that it is basically much easier
than you ever imagined.
For years I avoided an in-depth study of Enochian Magick,
believing it to be not only too ponderous a task but also anachronistically
irrelevant. I considered it a quaint dead-end of Elizabethan magic,
elements of which have trickled down the centuries and lodged themselves
in modem ceremonial magick.
I admit that I had a certain level of curiosity and fascination,
especially when I saw the painted tablets and Enochian "chess" equipment
that Israel Regardie would display on rare occasions to his friends. But the
idea of actually taking the time to make sense of this collection of complex
and fragmentary material was totally intimidating. And the thought of
having to learn an "angelic language" did not thrill me at all. I was quite
happy to file Enochian Magick in the same drawer of my mind where I keep
"Secrets of Aztec Cardiology" and "Cooking with Barbed Wire." Then
several years ago I was pleasantly disabused.
I had asked Crowley expert, Lon DuQuette, to write an epilogue for
my book. Secrets of Western Tantra, (Falcon Press, 1989) and in the
course of our discussion he asked me if I had ever utilized Enochian
Angels for operations of Sex Magick. He was genuinely amused when I
revealed my reasons for avoiding the subject and he suggested that if ever
I wished to learn how to immediately perform Enochian Magick, I should
simply read Crowley's Liber Chanokh and get started.
13

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
When I protested that I had read it, that in fact, it was included in
Gems From The Equinox, (Falcon Press, 1982). He said, "then read it
again, carefully, and this time assume that everything you need to know is
right there in the text."
He continued. "It is much simpler than you think." He then
encouraged me to call him if I ran into trouble.
His somewhat cavalier attitude was oddly reassuring, so I took
some time that evening to reread Chanokh. I followed his advice and
pretended it was the only book on the subject in the world. To my great
surprise I discovered that everything seemed quite clear. Was this the
same book that frustrated and confused me earlier? Did I all of a sudden
become so much smarter? Questions that were raised by one sentence
were answered in the next. The fundamentals of the system unfolded
neatly before my eyes. In less than an hour, I felt perfectly competent to
start basic operations. I had no reason to call Lon for advice.
When I did call him it was to tell him of my application of the
system to elements of my Tantric practices and that I wished to publish
Chanokh along with his comments and supplementary material of my own
findings. I have enjoyed our collaboration very much for his enthusiasm for
the subject has been irresistibly contagious. Now we invite you to enter
The Enochian World Of Aleister Crowley.
Relax. It is much simpler than you think and I guarantee you that if
you do embark upon the sexual practices all of your efforts will be well
rewarded.
14

Introduction
By Lon Milo DuQuette
In the introduction of a recently published book on magick, the writer
characterizes the Enochian material in Crowley's Equinox as being
"scanty" and in "disarray". I am afraid I could not disagree more. In fact, it
is so exquisitely comprehensive and laid out with such orderly neatness
that, (to quote Masonic scholar, Gary Ford), "Crowley can only be criticized
for being too anal retentive."
If the critic was capable of paying attention and spent the hour or less
that it takes to read Chanokh she couldn't help but grasp the subject. This,
in my opinion, cannot be said of any other text on the subject.
For example, the somewhat complex explanation of how the 18 Calls
are ordered and combined for invocations of the 16 different subangles
takes four pages in Regardie's Complete Golden Dawn System Of Magic,
(Falcon Press, 1984). Crowley does it easily in 10 sentences.
I will not argue that Crowley demands much from his readers. But in
the case of Liber LXXXIV vel Chanokh the difficulty is that one finds it
almost impossible to believe that so much is communicated in so few
words.
The genuineness of these Keys, altogether apart from any critical
observation, is guaranteed by the fact that anyone with the smallest
capacity for Magick finds that they work. Aleister Crowley
Twenty five years ago few members of the general occult community
had ever heard of the
15

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
Enochian system of Magick. Those who were aware of its existence fell
into two main categories:
I. Members of the surviving magical societies which operated in the basic
traditions of Ordo Templi Orientis, A.'. A.'. or The Golden Dawn.
II. Individuals lucky enough to posses either of two long-out-of-print works:
The Equinox Volume I, Numbers 7 & 8
The Golden Dawn Volumes 1-4
The Equinox, Aleister Crowley's Magnum Opus, issued at six
month intervals between 1909 and 1914, was the first modern publication
to examine the Enochian system in the seventh and eighth books of the
ten number series.
Israel Regardie's Account Of The Teachings, Rites And
Ceremonies Of The Golden Dawn followed in four volumes, the first
published in 1937 and the fourth in 1940.
Though material relating directly to Enochiana occupies only a
fraction of the above texts, the quality of the material is unquestioned. Both
provide clear, fundamental information that gives the student both a basic
understanding of the system and all the tools necessary to begin to
immediately apply it and operate Enochian Magick.
In 1969 Regardie's Golden Dawn was reissued in a two volume
format and then in 1974 he edited and released Gems From The Equinox
containing all the Enochian material from the original 10 volume set. Both
works are still in print. The Complete Golden Dawn System Of Magic,
(Falcon Press, 1984) Regardie's tour de force published shortly before his
death, includes his invaluable. Addendum to the Concourse of Forces.
This tome stands as a monument to both the man and the material. This
time the Enochian Genii has stayed out of the bottle.
16

Enochian Sex Magick
Since 1969 an increasing number of students have turned their
attention to this attractive yet, at first glance, overwhelmingly complex
system. Their diligence is rewarded with something very rare indeed—a
magical system that really works!
This takes many arm-chair magicians entirely off guard. A
legitimate encounter with an Elemental Spirit or an Angel of an Æthyr
invariably leaves a more lasting impression on the magician than the
phantoms of self-deluded wishful thinking that mark the "successful
working" of the dilettante.
Today Enochiana commands a respectable amount of space on
the shelves of your local occult or New-Age bookstore. Much of the
original Dee material (still existent) has been reprinted and made available
to an ever-growing body of readers. The students of the early 1970s have
become the researchers and prolific authors of today.
Many of the new works are excellent and offer invaluable
contributions to the ever-increasing library of Enochian knowledge. (The
works of Robert Turner should be singled out for their insight and high
level of scholarship.)
Some others I feel are of less value. While perhaps informative as
examples of the "findings" of one magician's experimentation, the
distinction is not always made clear as to what is the author's speculation
and innovation and what actually are the procedures suggested in the
original documents. Then, to make matters even more confusing, the
author presumes to define to the reader what they can expect to
experience, intimating that if they get anything else they are somehow in
error.
In my opinion, these works are little more than guided meditations
upon another magician's visions and deny the reader the challenge of self
discovery and mastery. But I'm sure that new volumes such as these
17

will continue to appear. I will not be surprised to someday see titles such
as The Enochian Cookbook, or I'm OK.. .You're Enochian appearing at my
local bookstore.
It is our aim to offer in a practical format, Liber LXXXIV vel
Chanokh, Crowley's original presentation of basic Enochiana and make it
immediately useful for the student who wishes to make use of it now.
This coupled with Regardie's fine Enochian Dictionary and
pronunciation guide provides the reader with the minimum material
necessary to get started. For the advanced student we offer practical
instructions concerning powerful sexual applications of the system and the
opportunity to re-evaluate the original information that the greatest
magician of 20th Century felt was most necessary to master first.
18

Chapter One.
A Short, Brief History (Abridged)
I have often read in thy [God's] books & records, how Enoch injoyed thy
favour & conversation; with Moses thou was familiar; And also that to
Abraham, Issack & Jacob, Joshua, Gideon, Esdras, Daniel, Tobias & sundry
others thy good angels were sent by thy disposition, to Instruct them,
informe them, helpe them, yea in worldly and domestick affaires, yea and
sometymes to satisfie their desires, doubles, and questions of thy Secrete:
Dr. John Dee (Sloane MS. 3188)
For God's sake, tell me what to think.
Asheigh Brilliant
It is said that the Enochian System of Magick, as practiced today, is
the Child of Four Fathers; John Dee, Edward Kelly, S.L. (MacGregor)
Mathers and Aleister Crowley. While this is a grossly inaccurate
oversimplification, (Dr. Rudd, Elias Ashmole, Wynn Westcott and Israel
Regardie might at least be called midwives), it is basically true.
Through the efforts of the unbelievably mercurial Elizabethan
mathematician. Dr. John Dee and his equally unbelievable "psychic"
partner, Edward Kelly, the raw material for the Enochian System was
"dictated" through a series of Angelic communications that lasted from
1582 to 1589. Copious records were kept, many which have survived to
the present.
Ironically, once Dee and Kelly went through the heroic efforts to get
all this information, it is believed they did not do a great deal with it.
Miraculously, much of the material survived the nearly 3 centuries to
19

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
come to the attention of S. L. (MacGregor) Mathers in the late 1880s.
(Note: Enochian fragments were even found in the famous cypher
manuscripts whose discovery was instrumental in the creation of the
Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.)
Mainly due to his inspired scholarship and impeccable logic. Dee's
and Kelly's "raw" material was hammered into a comprehensive and
workable system of ceremonial Magick. The two major branches of the
system were then grafted to the Adeptus Minor curriculum of the Golden
Dawn.
Aleister Crowley, who joined the Golden Dawn in 1898 and
attained the Grade of Adeptus Minor in 1900, was of course exposed to
the Order's Enochian teachings. However, Crowley took the Enochian
"ball" and ran with it farther than the founders of the Golden Dawn had
ever dreamed possible.
His exploration of the 30 Æthyrs as chronicled in The Vision And
The Voice (Gems From The Equinox, Falcon Press 1982) has been
seriously compared to the visionary works of William Blake and the
Qabalistic images of Ezekiel and the Revelation of Saint John the Divine.
It was also Aleister Crowley who reorganized and elucidated upon the
Golden Dawn Enochian material and published it in Equinox Vol. I, Nos.
VII and VIII as A Brief Abstract Of The Symbolic Representation Of The
Universe Derived By Doctor John Dee Through The Skrying Of Sir Edward
Kelly. (Subsequently and mercifully renamed Liber LXXXIV vel Chanokh.)
20

Chapter Two
Before We Start Let's Get Something Straight
The student who waits to master the subject before proceeding to
perform Magick, will never master the subject nor proceed to perform
Magick or for that matter anything else. Christopher S. Hyatt, Ph.D.
Anyone who refuses to begin a magical operation because of fear of
the "evil" forces that might be unleashed if he or she makes a mistake,
has already made a mistake that has invoked a far greater "evil".
David P. Wilson
Resign yourself at the outset to take responsibility for your own
magical reality. When you have firmly assumed this responsibility you will
realize that there is no Enochian universe per se. There is only your
universe which you can access by the Enochian formulae. There is no
Enochian magick per se. There is only your magick, facilitated by the
methods of the Enochian system.
This is not to argue the concept of spirits and angels having a
certain objective reality. Indeed, the fundamental operating principal of
evocation is to give outward substance to inner realities. But the sooner
you rid yourself of preconceived ideas of how all this is going to manifest
the sooner you will be able to recognize it when it really does start to
manifest.
For example, let us compare the Enochian system of Dr. Dee to a
more familiar "system" of another Elizabethan genius.
The sensitive theater-goer reaps a rich harvest of intellectual and
spiritual rewards whenever he or she sees a play by William Shakespeare.
21

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
Each character in the play, hero or villain, speaks the "truth" from
their particular perspective and it is up to us as the audience, to analyze
these "truths" and apply them toward understanding our own lives.
Restated in Magickal Language: Each Angel in the system, Divine
or Demonic, declares their nature from their particular perspective and it is
up to me as the magician, to analyze their communication and apply that
knowledge to the understanding of the Great Work.
These "truths" would be the same "truths" if the actors were
dressed traditionally, or as cowboys or as space aliens. Granted, you
might be distracted and miss the point of Hamlet's soliloquy if it were
delivered by a giant amoeba, but a Biologist might find it most profound.
Just as no two people see and react to a play in exactly the same
way, so too, no two magicians will have identical experiences in evocation.
Dare To Be Lazy
If you are truly interested in performing Enochian Magick there is
more than enough information between the covers of this book to help you
grasp the theory, build the equipment and perform the magick. In fact you
are encouraged to do so.
By following the suggestions in the section that follows you will
avoid many time-consuming mistakes that have traditionally plagued the
Enochian student.
Supplementary to the text of Chanokh, I have provided comments
to each of the major sections and have added additional diagrams in the
Appendix. I strongly suggest that you read these and refer to the diagrams
while you read Chanokh. You will save many hours of confusion and
frustration if you will take this simple advice.
22

Enochian Sex Magick
Also, pay special attention to the "Hints". They are put there to
steer you clear of the "rocks" of Crowley's thrifty use of the English
language (not to mention his downright omissions and a typo or two).
Make it easy on yourself. Dare to be lazy.
23

Chapter Three
The Ten Minute Overview
The two pillars of modem Enochian Magick, as outlined in Liber
Chanokh (Chapter Five) are The Elemental Watch-towers (including the
Tablet of Union) and the "World" of the 30 Æthyrs. The first is:
The Elemental Watch-Towers Of The
Universe And The Tablet of Union
These are the Elemental Tablets (Plates III, IV, V, VI, VII and VIII)
which are constructed with the purest Hermetic logic and lettered
according to the diagrams of Dee and Kelly. These letters form the names
of the Spirits of Fire, Water, Air and Earth.
These are the "Elementals" of literature, the Salamanders of Fire,
the Undines of Water, the Sylphs of Air and the Gnomes of Earth.
Exactly what are the Elements and, more importantly, why would anyone
want to call up an Elemental Being? Below is a portion of our book The
Ultimate Divination (New Falcon Publications, 1991) which touches upon
the subject of the Elements.
The ancients viewed the Elements as the building
blocks of creation. They divided them into four broad
categories which they called FIRE, WATER, AIR and
EARTH.
Of course these are not the chemical elements which
combine to form the material world around us. Nor are
they literally Fire, Water, Air and Earth. They are, most
simply put, the totality of all the forces, energies and
qualities in the universe divided info four broad
categories. These categories, by their natures, bear a
poetical resemblance to Fire, Water, Air and Earth.
These qualities are the
25

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
foundation of both galaxies and sub-atomic particles and
the limitless diversity of creation is the result of the
infinite number of ways these four Elements can be
mixed, combined and recombined.
It is interesting to note that modern physics
postulates four fundamental forces; the Strong Force, the
Electro-Magnetic Force, the Weak Force and the
Gravitational Force that, by their characteristics, bear
a remarkable resemblance to the ancient Elements:
The ancients also postulated a Fifth Element
(quite literally a "quintessence") which serves the double
duty of binding the four Elements together and (at the
same time) keeping them far enough apart to retain their
individuality. This Fifth Element they called SPIRIT.
Once you have colored your Tablets you will see how the "Angels"
of any given Element are formed, combined, mixed, recombined and
reformed. (Note: Completed Colored Tablets are currently available
through New Falcon Publications.)
Obviously these Elementals are more than just the Salamanders
in your fireplace, the sailor's Mermaid, Tinkerbell or Gimli the Dwarf. They
have far more universal natures and as such are worthy of our attention.
As a matter of fact they are at work, either efficiently or inefficiently, in
each of us. Perhaps if we had a better understanding of our Elemental
balance (or lack of it) we might get a clue as to how to improve our lives.
Note: What follows may seem a bit complicated to the new
student. A full explanation of the operating procedure will be given in the
following chapters.
For example, some years ago I accepted a job from an old friend
who asked me to edit a psychology book he had just completed. I had
never done such a thing before but I accepted with some hesitation.
26

Enochian Sex Magick
The evening before I was to start I decided to invoke an Enochian
Elemental Angel to help me put things in perspective and perhaps to give
me a little boost on my first day. I chose to invoke SOAIZNT the Mercury
Senior of the Water Tablet. (My reasoning was that Mercury is the force
that is traditionally associated with writing and matters of the mind and
Water is the element of reflection and empathy which I felt would be
necessary for a task such as this.)
The invocation was simple enough. J had my Tablet of Union and
Elemental Tablets sitting upon a table in the center of the room. After a
routine Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram I opened the Temple in the
Grade of 3°=8" as written in Chanokh then performed the Hexagram
Ritual invoking Mercury (Planetary Seniors are invoked by the Hexagram)
then I simply recited the Fourth Call straight out of Chanokh.
At first I "saw" nothing. (My skrying technique is to sit quietl y with my
eyes closed.) I felt somewhat stimulated and remember thinking that I
should do this ritual whene ver I needed to stay awake -when suddenly it
was there. It had a basic humanoid form but it looked as if it had a "skin"
made entirely of silver reflective material. Not stiff like a series of mirrors or
facets, but smooth, almost liquid . Everywhere I looked on its "body" I saw
myself reflected. It was breathtakingly beautiful. I was dumbfound ed. After
a moment when I could think straight again, I repeated the name,
SOAIZNT (the standard procedure to test a vision.) It seemed to gain
strength and become clearer with each repetition of its name so I felt
confide nt that what was in front of me was indeed what I had called up.
The question was now 'what am I going to do with this guy'? It took a little
effort but I finally remembered the reason for the operation. I asked if it
could help me to better understand another's thoughts
27

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
and to efficiently transfer these thoughts to the written word. It indicated it
could and produced a mirror upon which it drew a figure. I "felt" that I was
to somehow use this figure as a tool to achieve my goal. I drew it on a
piece of scratch paper and after the obligatory banishing I gazed upon it
for a few minutes then went to bed. The next morning I decided I would
take the figure SOAIZNT gave me and simply draw it at the top of each
page of my daily note pad where I would be forced to look at it almost
continually. Throughout the course of the project (which went surprisingly
well by the way) I was focused upon this symbol and constantly reminded
of the invocation and the incredible vision of the Angel who aids works of
this nature.
In practical workings such as this it is very helpful to bring
something from the vision back into this world.
In the everyday world of our waking consciousness life forms,
such as people, animals, plants, etc., we perceive as living "beings." On
the other hand, symbols such as triangles, pentagrams, letters, etc., we
perceive as abstractions, springboards to a variety of ideas. In the
"magical" world it is just the opposite. When we "see" a life form, such as
an Angel or a unicorn or an aardvark, it is an abstract personification of an
idea. Symbols, on the other hand, are "living beings" on that plane, the
true life forms of the magical universe.
As you can imagine these symbol-life forms can be powerful tools
in the hands of the magician. Bringing them through to our objective world
is an important part of practical workings.
The second pillar is:
28

Enochian Sex Magick
The Thirty Æthyrs Whose Dominion
Extendeth In Ever-Widening Circles
Beyond The Watch-Towers Of The
Universe
These are the "heavens" or Aires of the system. Starting with the
30th Æthyr and working to the 1st, the magician explores only as far as his
or her personal level of Initiation will permit. This process is comparable to
"pathworkings" of the Qabalistic system. In Enochian terms, the "Great
Work" of the magician is to master all 30 Æthyrs. (Starting with 30 and
ending with 1)
Experiences with the 30 Æthyrs are highly personal and entirely
unique to each magician. Working with the Æthyrs can be a lifetime
endeavor and it is entirely presumptuous and inappropriate for another
individual to "guide" another in this area.
Thus, with these two branches of the system, the Elemental and the
Æthyric, we have formulae to access both the phenomenal world of the
Elements and private world of our own Spiritual Journey.
Both types of operations require the ability on the part of the magician
to skry or "travel in the Spirit Vision." If you are not already a talented
skryer there is no better way to train than Enochian Magick, especially
elemental workings.
There are as many skrying techniques as there are magicians who
skry. Dee and Kelly gazed into a concave obsidian mirror. Crowley held a
large topaz mounted upon a wooden cross to his forehead. But other
methods include gazing into crystals, ink, fire eleven a blank TV screen.
You can sit in a chair or on the floor or lie on your back. You can close
your eyes or keep them open. Use what works for you. As it is a
subjective, (well, maybe not entirely subjective)
29

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
experience, the choice is yours. I was amused to hear one skryer's abilities
criticized for being done in a "light trance" state. We should all be so lucky!
For anyone who has tried unsuccessfully to skry in the past I offer
the following hint.
Stop trying to skry!
Don't try to "see" a vision in your mind. The vision is already going
on in the part of your mind (the right side of your brain) where you are not
currently focused. (Don't criticize the movie if you go to the theater, buy a
ticket then choose to stay in the lobby.) When you refocus your attention
to that part of your mind you will find the "vision" in progress. It's
impossible to refocus while you are consciously trying to refocus. So stop
trying. Relax.
This change of focus happens each time you drop off to sleep.
There is a moment when your thoughts begin to take visual form. You
have a choice for a brief moment of "snapping out of it" or relaxing and
"going with it, allowing yourself to change your focus for the rest of the
night.
When you skry you are not asleep but neither are you focused on
the objective world as analyzed by the left side of your brain. You relax
and allow yourself to focus on the subjective, visual world of your brain's
right hemisphere.
The most important thing to remember is not to project an
objective reality to another skryer's vision. This is the flaw of "guided
Pathworkings" or meditations upon another magician's visions. It is your
magical universe you are dealing with and no one else's. (You are well
advised to test your own visions and take them with a rather large grain of
salt as well.)
30

Chapter four
Comments On Liber LXXXIV vel Chanokh
THE TITLE "LIBER LXXXIV"
The original title first published in Equinox Vol. I Nos. VII & VIII
was A Brief Abstract Of The Symbolic Representation Of The Universe
Derived By Dr. John Dee Through The Skrying Of Sir Edward Kelly.
LXXXIV (84) is the Qabalistic numeration for Chanokh, the Hebrew
spelling of Enoch.
Note: When originally published the title did not bear the number.
Crowley assigned the number 84 when the Syllabus of the Official
Instructions of A.'. A.'. was published in The Blue Equinox. Since then, due
to a series of typographical errors, the number LXXXIX (89) has been
mistakenly used in the title of published works. For our purposes we will
refer to it simply as Chanokh.
PART I
THE HOLY TWELVEFOLD TABLE
The Holy Table is part of the "furniture" of the Temple and does not
directly concern Elemental or Æthyrical workings. Angels found on the
Holy Table are not called forth in these operations.
The original table top measured 35 7/8in X 36 l/4in X 7/lOin.
Note: There is good reason to believe that the illustration as printed in
Chanokh, (Plate I) is in error. Plate I is reproduced from Casaubon's A
True and Faithful Relation of what Passed for Many Years Between Dr.
John Dee and Some Spirits...published
31

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
in 1659. It is now believed that, do to a 17th Century printer's error,
Casaubon's version (and consequently everybody's since) was printed
with the letters in reverse order. One of Dee's descriptions of the Table
indicates it resembled the illustration we have included in the Appendix
(Diagram A) of this book. This is regarded as the correct version. (Note:
The Plates referred to are not in the Appendix but in the text of Chanokh
itself [Chapter Five of this book]. All of the diagrams are in the Appendix of
this book and are not original Chanokh illustrations.)
THE SEVEN TALISMANS
Like the Holy Table, these are considered Temple "furniture" and
do not directly concern Elemental or Æthyrical workings. Spirits found on
these talismans are not called forth in these operations.
The illustrations in Plate I are too small to read. Enlargements
from the 17th Century manuscript. Dr. Rudd's Treatise, are included in the
Appendix (Diagram B) of this book. It is interesting to note that the names
on these "planetary" talismans are those of the Goetia. This indicates (or
at least implies) Dee's familiarity with the LEMEGETON and his attempt, at
least early in his workings, to incorporate it in the Enochian system.
PART II
THE HOLY SEVENFOLD TABLE
THE SIGILLUM DEI ÆMETH
Perhaps the most widely recognized diagram of the Enochian system,
the Sigillum Dei Æmeth does not directly concern Elemental or Æthyrical
workings. Like the Holy Table and the Talismans, its Angels are not called
forth in these operations. Nevertheless it is an important piece of temple
"furniture" for upon it rested the Shew-stone or the skrying mirror.
32

Enochian Sex Magick
Made from bee's wax as described in Chanokh, the four smaller
versions were placed under the feet of the Holy Table, presumably to
insulate it from "earthy vibrations". The fifth and larger one (about 9 inches
in diameter) covered with a red cloth, was placed on the Holy Table to
support the Shew-stone.
Note: The illustration on Plate II was taken from Dee's diaries. The
large wax version on display at the British Museum is slightly different.
For example on the actual wax version, there are 7 crosses on each of
the 7 bars making up the main heptagram. The illustration shows only
three bars with 7 crosses the other 4 containing only 3.
Even though the above items of temple furniture are unnecessary for
Elemental operations and for exploring the 30 Æthyrs, the reader might
like to make his or her own versions of them to support the skrying mirror.
Many of my (Dare to be lazy) students have simply made photographic
enlargements of the illustrations that appear in this book and have
mounted them on wood or foam board.
PART III
This is the most important section for the student to grasp. It deals
directly with the two branches of the system of the most practical value.
The Elemental Tablets and the Tablet of Union (sometimes referred to as
the Black Cross.) and the 30 Æthyrs or Aires. By using the information in
this section the serious student will eventually construct the fabled
equipment of the art.
This is also where many become confused and discouraged.
Admittedly it will take the reader's full attention to wade through this
section. This is not because Crowley is being deliberately obscure. On the
contrary, it is because he is being almost unbelievably
33

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
economical with his choice of words and the ordering of his thoughts.
I hope the following hints will save you some difficult moments.
HINT#1
BE PREPARED FOR INCONSISTENCES IN THE LETTERING
OF THE TABLETS
Don't panic when you discover alternate spellings to names drawn
from the Elemental tablets. This is due to the fact that Dee and Kelly (at
the direction of the communicating angels) made several revisions to the
tablets. To help you, we have included in the Appendix charts showing
alternate and multiple lettering (See Diagram E).
HINT # 2
CAREFULLY READ AND REFER OFTEN TO THE
PLATES
A picture is worth a thousand words and in this case many hours. To
be able to see what Crowley is writing about will save you much valuable
time. Plates IV, V, VI, VII & VIII are lettered in Enochian. For English
equivalents refer to the Appendix (assorted diagrams).
HINT #3
REMEMBER, THE SAME GENERAL LAWS APPLY TO ALL
FOUR ELEMENTAL TABLETS. TO UNDERSTAND ONE IS TO
UNDERSTAND THEM ALL
For example; Crowley explains the Hierarchy of the Three Holy
Names, the Great Elemental King, the Six Seniors, the Two Divine Names
of the Calvary Cross, the Kerubim and the Sixteen Lesser Angels by using
the Water Tablet (Plate V) as the example. The Hierarchy of the Fire, Air,
and Earth Tablets are determined in exactly the same way.
34

Enochian Sex Magick
Note: To make this section easier to understand, I have included in
the Appendix (Diagram D) an English version of the Water Tablet
conveniently split apart for easy viewing. If you keep this diagram in front
of you while reading Part III of Chanokh I think you will have no trouble
understanding what is being said.
BASIC TERMS
The Four Great Watch-Towers are often referred to as the
Elemental Tablets of Air, Water, Earth and Fire.
Plate III shows them together; Air in the upper left-hand quarter,
Water in the upper-right hand quarter, Earth in the lower left-hand quarter
and Fire in the lower right-hand quarter.
Plates IV, V, VI, & VII show them singularly. Each of the Elemental
Tablets is also divided into four sections by the two central vertical
columns and the central horizontal line. (The Linea Patris, the Linea Filii
and the Linea Spiritus Sancti respectively) This is also referred to as the
Great Central Cross of the Elemental Tablet. (See Diagram D).
The four sections of the Elemental Tablet created by the Great
Central Cross are called Subangles which are also attributed to the four
Elements. (Air in the upper left-hand quarter, Water in the upper-right hand
quarter. Earth in the lower left-hand quarter and Fire in the lower right-
hand quarter.
In Diagram D in the Appendix of this book, you will see an
example of the Water Tablet divided by the Great Central Cross and
broken into its Subangles. (Air of Water in the upper left, Water of Water in
the upper right. Earth of Water in the lower left, and Fire of Water in the
lower right) Subangles on the Air, Fire and Earth Tablets are arranged in
exactly the same way.
35

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
1. THE THREE HOLY NAMES OF GOD
(See Diagram D) The Three Holy Names of God are made up of
the first three letters, the next four letters and the last five letters of the
Linea Spirtus Sancti (the central horizontal line of each Elemental Tablet)
For our example, the Water Tablet, the Three Holy Names are: MPH
ARSL GAIOL.
Note: Don't let these names intimidate you. Just locate them. Don't
worry about pronouncing them now. There is an excellent pronunciation
guide provided later in this book.
Now try to locate The Three Holy Names on the Fire, Air and Earth
Tablets.
2. THE GREAT ELEMENTAL KING
(See Diagram D) The eight letter Name of the Great Elemental
King is formed by a clockwise whorl around the center of The Great
Central Cross of the Linea Patris, the Linea Filii and the Linea Spirtus
Sancti. The Great Elemental King may be considered the Sun Senior of
the Tablet. The Great Elemental King of the Water Tablet is RAAGIOSL.
Now try to locate the Great Elemental Kings on the other three Elemental
Tablets.
3. THE SIX SENIORS
(See Diagram D) The 7 letter Names of the Six Planetary Seniors
are also drawn from the Great Central Cross. Each Name starts in the
middle of the Cross and moves towards the extremities. (Arrows in
Diagram D show the directions the names are read and the Planet to
which each of the Seniors is attributed). This is the same for all four
Elemental Tablets.
In the case of the Water Tablet; SAIINOV is the Senior of Jupiter,
SOAIZNT is the Senior of Mercury, LAOAZRP is the Senior of the Moon,
36

Enochian Sex Magick
LIGDISA is the Senior of Saturn, SLGAIOL is the Senior of of Venus and
LSRAHPM is the Senior of Mars. Now locate the Six Seniors on the three
other Elemental Tablets.
4. THE CALVARY CROSSES
(See Diagram D) Each of the four Subangles on an Elemental Tablet
contains a Calvary Cross. The two Angels of the Calvary Cross rule the
Subangle. With the first Name (the vertical line — reading from top to
bottom) you call forth the Power of the Subangle.
With the second Name (the horizontal line— reading from left to right)
you compel the Power to obedience. (We will see how to do this later)
These names as they apply to the Water Tablet appear in the text of
Chanokh.
Remember, there are four Calvary Crosses in each Elemental Tablet.
Now locate the four Calvary Crosses in the subangles of each of the four
Elemental Tablets.
5. THE KERUBIM
(See Diagram D) The four letter Name of the Kerub is found above
the arms of the Calvary Cross of each subangle. The letters of the Cross
itself are never included in the Kerub's name.
The Kerub rules the angels who reside below the arms of the Cross.
The four letters in the name of the Kerub can be rearranged in different
orders to create different Kerubs who in turn rule different angels beneath
the arms of the cross. (The letters of their names rearranged exactly as
those of the rearranged Kerub.)
Note: A great deal of confusion exists concerning this statement in
Chanokh:
They are ruled by names of God formed by prefixing the appropriate
letter from the 'black cross' to their own [the Kerubim] names... There is
disagreement among scholars as to which letters from
37

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
the "Black Cross" (the Tablet of Union) are "appropriate." If you refer to
Diagram G you will see that 16 of the 20 squares correspond to the 16
subangles of the four Elemental tablets.
The most popular theory maintains that these are the appropriate
letters to help form the name of the "God" that rules the Kerub of any
given Subangle. Let us use the example of the Elemental Tablet of Water
(Diagram D) the Kerub of the Subangle of Fire is NLRX. Now refer to
Diagram G and find the Fire of Water square. It is the fifth square of the
second line. "A" (The "A" in HCOMA). So the God that rules NLRX would
be ANLRX.
Please remember that there is disagreement, even among very
knowledgeable experts, about these "God" names and where exactly they
fit in the Enochian Hierarchy.
I advise beginning students to first become adequately fluent in
basic hierarchical workings then develop for themselves a structure for
these "supercharged" angels. The system does not pivot on this point.
6. THE FOUR MIGHTY AND BENEVOLENT ANGELS
(See Diagram D) These Angels are found beneath the horizontal bar
of the Calvary Cross and are last in the Hierarchy of the Elemental Angels.
They are extremely interesting and can provide great insight into the
nature of the Elements. (Again, the names are only of four letters).
Note: Remember these four Angels are ruled by their Kerub who is
found above the horizontal arm of the Calvary Cross. When you make a
different Kerub (by changing the order of the letters in its name) you
automatically make four new sets of Angel names beneath the arm of the
Calvary Cross (by changing the
38

Enochian Sex Magick
order of the letters of their names in the same manner as the new Kerub.)
7. THE DEMONS OR ELEMENTALS
(See Diagram D) Unfortunately the definitive instructions promised by
Crowley were not forthcoming and experts and students alike are left to
speculate and disagree. The reader is encouraged to join in this quest. It is
clear that they are not routinely called forth in workings of the Elemental
Tablets.
[Following Crowley's comments on the Triliteral names of demons
(above) he begins a second section of PART III with subheadings 1-5.]
PART III
(SECOND SECTION)
As you can see from Plates IV, V, VI, VII and VIII, the Squares of
the Elemental Tablets and the Tablet of Union are really Pyramids with flat
tops. The Pyramid with its four sides and top is an especially appropriate
symbol for the Four Elements ruled by Spirit. Each side of an Enochian
Pyramid has a very specific attribute.
There are 20 Pyramids in the Tablet of Union and 156 in each of
the four Elemental tablets. Each Pyramid houses an Angel with a one
letter name. The attributes of that Angel are determined by the positioning
of the Pyramid upon the Tablet and proportions of the different Elements
represented on its four sides. When two Pyramids are combined they form
an Angel with a two letter name whose attributes are a bit more complex.
And so on.
To most easily understand how these attributes are determined I
will give the reader the most valuable hint of all:
39

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
HINT # 4.
HAND COLOR PLATES IV. V, VI. VII, & VIII
Before attempting to understand the second section of Part III, you
are well advised to make photocopies of Plates IV, V, VI, VII & VIII and
then hand color the Pyramids. By coloring the Pyramids you will learn, in
the fastest and easiest way possible, the logic behind their construction.
THE COLORING KEY FOR EACH PYRAMID
Leave the center square of each Pyramid (which contains the
letter) uncolored for the time being.
Sides with the Spirit White
Symbol
Sides with the Fire
Symbol
Sides with the Water
Symbol
Sides with the Air
Symbol
Sides with the Earth
Symbol
Red
Blue
Yellow
Green
or Black
I suggest you start with the Tablet Of Union, (Plate VIII or the English
lettered version in the Appendix, Diagram G).
Even though it is small, it is a very important Tablet for its Angels,
EXARP, HCOMA, NANTA & BITOM, rule the other four Elemental
Tablets, (EXARP rules the Air Tablet, HCOMA rules the Water Tablet,
NANTA rules the Earth Tablet and BITOM rules the Fire Tablet.)
The Tablet Of Union is considered the Elemental Tablet of Spirit. The
four Elements are represented in
40

Enochian Sex Magick
their purest form, undifferentiated by the level of admixture that
characterizes the other four Elemental Tablets.
The Tablet Of Union acts in exactly the same manner as Spirit acts
upon the four Elements. It binds them together so they can combine to be
the building blocks of creation yet keeps them separated just enough to
prevent the loss of their individual and fundamental natures. This active
and passive quality of Spirit is the reason that there are two types of Spirit
Pentagrams, Active and Passive.
The Angels of the Tablet Of Union can be said to be the very "roots"
of the Angels of the Elemental Tablets.
Once you have colored your Tablet Of Union, you will discover that a
very simple pattern is formed by the attributes in the Lines and Files (or
Columns). The top and bottom section of each Pyramid is attributed to
Spirit. The right side is attributed to the Primary Element (as dictated by
which Line the Pyramid is located) and the left side is attributed to the
Secondary Element (as dictated by which Column it is located).
Note; This and what follows below will be laughably easy to
understand if you have taken five minutes and colored your Tablet Of
Union.
THE LINES
The four five letter Names (EXARP, HCOMA, NANTA and
BITOM) are the Primary Spirits of the Elements. Each Spirit governs an
entire Elemental Tablet.
EXARP is the Spirit of Air and governs the entire Air Tablet. The
right section of each Pyramid of EXARP is Air.
41

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
HCOMA is the Spirit of Water and governs the entire Water
Tablet. The right section of each Pyramid of HCOMA is Water.
NANTA is the Spirit of Earth and governs the entire Earth Tablet.
The right section of each Pyramid of NANTA is Earth.
BITOM is the Spirit of Fire and governs the entire Fire Tablet. The
right section of each Pyramid of BITOM is Fire.
THE COLUMNS
This same order of Air, Water, Earth and Fire is repeated in the
Columns of the Tablet Of Union as Secondary attributions which appear
on the left section of each Pyramid. (See Diagram G)
The first Column, EHNB is the purest of all the Column Names.
Each letter rules its respective Line and is three parts Spirit and one
part its respective Element.
E governs EXARP
H governs HCOMA
N governs NANTA
B governs BITOM.
The sixteen letters of the remaining four columns contain both
Primary and Secondary attributions. (Remember, the Secondary
attribution is located upon the left section of these Pyramids.) These
sixteen letters govern the sixteen Subangles of the Elemental Tablets.
X = Air of Air
C = Air of Water
A = Air of Earth
I = Air of Fire
A = Water of Air
O = Water of Water
N = Water of Earth
T = Water of Fire
42

Enochian Sex Magic
R = Earth of Air
M = Earth of Water
T = Earth of Earth
O = Earth of Fire
P = Fire of Air
A = Fire of Water
A = Fire of Earth
M = Fire of Fire
An easy way to think about how the Tablet Of Union relates to the
other four Tablets is to pretend you have an "Elemental Microscope".
Take the letter E from EXARP and put it under your microscope. You
will see the entire Air Elemental Tablet.
Take the letter O from BITOM and put it under your microscope. You
will see the Earth Subangle of the Tablet of Fire.
Take the second letter N from NANTA and put it under your
microscope. Your will see the Water Subangle of the Earth Tablet, etc.
After you have colored your Tablet Of Union color each of the four
Elemental Tablets. (You may purchase all of these beautifully mounted on
boards from New Falcon Publications.)
HINT #5
COLOR EACH ELEMENTAL TABLET IN FOUR
STEPS
Note: There are various ways the Pyramids of the Great Central
Cross may be colored. We have chosen the method below because the
attributes are uniformly determined through Elemental rulerships.
STEP 1:
THE GREAT CENTRAL CROSS
The Top section of each Pyramid of the Great Central Cross
represents Spirit and is painted White.
The Bottom section of each Pyramid of the Great Central Cross
represents the Element of the Tablet. In
43

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
the case of the Water Tablet it is painted Blue. (When painting the Fire
Tablet the bottom sections of the Great Central Cross would be Red, the
Air Tablet Yellow, the Earth Tablet, Green or Black)
The Left side of each Pyramid of the Great Central Cross represent
the Signs of the Zodiac. These are grouped in threes by element and
positioned as describe in Chanokh.
The Fire Signs (Aires, Leo and Sagittarius) are colored Red.
The Water Signs (Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces) are colored Blue.
The Air Signs (Libra, Aquarius and Gemini) are colored Yellow.
The Earth Signs (Capricorn, Taurus and Virgo) are colored Green (or
Black)
The Right side of each Pyramid of the Great Central Cross represent
the planetary rulership of the 36 decans of the Zodiac. There are 36
decans and 36 Pyramids in the Great Central Cross. For our purpose we
color the planets according to the rulership of the fixed signs:
Saturn and Mercury for Air are colored Yellow
Jupiter and the Sun for Fire are colored Red
Venus and the Moon for Earth are colored Green or (Black)
Mars for Water is colored Blue.
STEP 2:
THE CALVARY CROSSES
The Top section of each Pyramid of the Calvary Crosses of the
subangles represents Spirit and is painted white.
The Bottom section of each Pyramid of the Calvary Crosses of the
subangles represent one of the ten Sephiroth of the Qabalistic Tree of Life
and are
44

Enochian Sex Magick
numbered according to Plates IV, V, VI and VII. We suggest for the time
being, that you leave the Bottom sections White and simply number them
in black. Later you may wish to paint them one of the four traditional colors
of the Sephiroth.
The Left section of each Pyramid of the Calvary Crosses of the
subangles represent the Element of the Tablet. In the case of the Water
Tablet, the Left section of the Pyramids of each of the four Calvary
Crosses would be painted Blue.
The Right section of each Pyramid of the Calvary Crosses of the
subangles represent the Element of the subangle itself and painted
accordingly. [Upper Left-hand subangle (Air-Yellow), Upper Right-hand
subangle (Water-Blue), Lower Left-hand subangle (Earth-Green or Black),
Lower Right-hand Subangle, (Fire-Red)] This pattern is the same for all
four Elemental Tablets.
STEP 3:
THE KERUBIC ANGELS
These are found above the arms of the Calvary Crosses.
The Top section of each of the four Kerubic Pyramids represent
the Elemental Tablet and are colored accordingly. In the case of the Water
Tablet, blue.
The Bottom section of each of the four Kerubic Pyramids
represent the Element of the subangle itself and is colored accordingly.
Color the Right and Left sections of each of the four Kerubic Pyramids as
indicated in Plates IV, V, VI and VII. The order that the elements are
arranged follow a logical permutation and dictate the order of the Lines
and Columns of the 16 Lesser Pyramids found below the arms of the
Calvary Cross.
45

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
STEP 4:
THE SIXTEEN LESSER PYRAMIDS
These are found below the arms of the Calvary Crosses.
The Left section of each Pyramid of the Lesser Angels represents
the Elemental Tablet. In the case of the Water Tablet it is colored Blue.
The Right section of each Pyramid of the Lesser Angels
represents the subangle and is colored accordingly.
Color the Top and Bottom section of each of the sixteen Lesser
Pyramids as indicated in Plates IV, V, VI. and VII. Notice how the coloring
order is dictated by the squares of the Kerubic Angels.
Granted, all this may take a few hours to execute but it will save you
months (or as in my case, years) of confusion.
Now with your colored Tablets before you, read the material in the
Second section of Part III of Chanokh and marvel at the "method" to the
"madness."
PART IV
THE ENOCHIAN ALPHABET
AND THE ENOCHIAN LANGUAGE
One of the most unique characteristics of Enochian Magick is that
the invocations are recited in a language completely unique to the system.
This language comes down to us as the result of the workings of
Dr. John Dee and Edward Kelly and, according to their records, was
taught to them by the Enochian Angels themselves.
Israel Regardie in his massive work. The Complete Golden Dawn
System of Magic (New Falcon Publications, 1984), makes the following
comments:
46

Enochian. Sex Magick
The Enochian language is without any history prior to the skrying of Edward Kelly and
John Dee. There is no record of its prior existence, regardless of some fanciful
theories which have been invented to account for it. The Enochian language is not just
a haphazard combination and compilation of divine and angelic names drawn from
the Tablets. Apparently, it is a true language with a grammar and syntax of its own.
Only a superficial study of the invocations suffice to indicate this to be a fact. The
invocations are not strings of words and barbarous names, but are sentences which
can be translated in a meaningful way and not merely transliterated.
I believe, when invoking, that it is of the utmost importance to recite the
Call or Calls in Enochian and not use an English translation. Not that it is
unimportant for the Magician to know exactly what is being said but it is
obvious to me that the intelligences who delivered this language to Dee
and Kelly did not do it to hear themselves talk.
Reciting in Enochian instantly changes one's consciousness and
induces a state of mind conducive to magical working.
The Calls themselves are very unique and are nothing like the tedious
beseechments and endless whining and self debasement that characterize
Goetic evocations. Rather, in the Angel's native tongue, they sing of its
attributes and environment and offer a dignified invitation to communicate
with the Magician.
This format is irresistible to the Angel. Think about it. If a mouse
crawled up on your shoe and started to squeak, you would only give it as
much attention as you would need to chase it away. But if it crawled up on
your shoe, called you by name and then began to recite, in English, a
litany of recognizable personal traits:
... Oh thou who art so huge, who wakest with the music of the clock-radio and who
bringest
47

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
in the morning paper, who with thy mouth consumest the eggs of the hen and wipeth
thy lips with paper...
... you would sit up and take notice. You might even try to have a
meaningful conversation with the little fellow. You wouldn't even mind if he
spoke with a thick accent!
The Enochian Calls as they appear in Chanokh are written
phonetically and are very close to the standard used by the Golden Dawn
which appear in Regardie's Enochian Dictionary in the Appendix of this
book.
Plate DC shows the Enochian Alphabet and Plates I, IV, V, VI, VII,
VIII are lettered in Enochian.
PART V
THE THIRTY ÆTHYRS OR AIRES
As we will read in Chanokh, Crowley says that Dee:
...symbolized the Fourth-Dimensional Universe in two dimensions as a square surrounded by
30 concentric circles (the 30 Æthyrs or Aires) whose radii increase in a geometrical
proportion
The "square" mentioned above is the Four Elemental Tablets and the
Tablet of Union. These are quite literally Watch-Towers that stand at the
very edge of the phenomenal universe. Beyond the Watch-Towers are the
Æthyrs, the Aires, the Heavens. They can be visualized as thirty spheres,
one inside another like layers of a glass onion. The Thirtieth, TEX is the
lowest and consequently the closest to the Watch-Towers.
LIL, the First, is the highest and represents the Supreme Attainment.
It is the Great work of the Magician to "explore" the Æthyrs one at a time,
and learn the lessons, master the problems and receive the wisdom each
has to offer.
48

Enochian Sex Magick
Most anyone who cares to try has some level of success in the
lower Æthyrs. It is most important to keep a detailed record of all workings
because eventually you will reach a point beyond which you cannot pass.
This point marks the limits of your present level of "initiation" and the last
Æthyr you could successfully penetrate holds the key to your spiritual
advancement.
Each of the Thirty Æthyrs is populated by Governors whose
responsibilities are partially described in Dee's Liber Scientiæ, Auxilii, et
Victoriæ Terrestris. For our purpose we will view the Governors as angelic
personifications of the different facets of the Æthyrs. They serve as our
guides and most importantly they are "someone" to whom we can talk and
ask questions. The names of the each of the Thirty Æthyrs and their
Governors is provided in the text of Chanokh.
Each Æthyr has three Governors (except the Thirtieth which has
four). Sigils (signatures) of the Governors are taken from the Elemental
Tablets showing that the influence of the Æthyrs is universal reaching
even into the Watch-Towers of the Elements.
These sigils of the Governors are illustrated in Plate X and more
clearly in Diagram F and are numbered 1 through 91. In order to more
easily find the Sigil of each Governor, the reader is encouraged to number
the list of Governors as found in Part V of Chanokh starting with
OCCODON-1, PASCOMB-2, VALGARS-3, DOAGNIS-4, etc.
Ironically very little effort is required to "work" with the Æthyrs. One
Call only is necessary for all thirty of them. The name of the Æthyr itself
being the only variable.
Once the Call is recited the names of the Governors are vibrated one
at a time. Often the vision
49

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
changes drastically when the next Governor's name is vibrated. Take your
time with each one and, as always, keep a detailed record of your
operation.
Now let us turn our attention to the section of Chanokh designated
in the text as:
PART II THE FORTY-EIGHT CALLS OR KEYS
The calls or Keys activate the tablets and subangles in the same way
as the power switch turns on a TV before selecting a channel.
At the beginning of this section Crowley tells us which Calls are used
in all the various invocations of the Elemental system. He does so in the
fewest words humanly possible. Perhaps the reader will appreciate the
elucidation below.
FIRST KEY
Use first in all invocations of any of the Angels of the Tablet of
Union. (It is not used in the invocation of any of the Angels of the
Elemental Tablets.)
SECOND KEY
Use second as invocation of the Angels of the letters E H N B of
the Tablet of Union. Like the FIRST CALL it is never used in the invocation
of the Angels of the four Elemental Tablets. (The sequence of Calls being
1 and 2.)
Note: The Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Keys are used in certain
invocations of the Tablet of Union and in the Invocations of the Elemental
Tablets. What follows immediately is how they are used in invocations of
the Tablet of Union.
THIRD KEY
For invocations of the Angels of the letters of the line EXARP the
sequence of Calls is 1, 2 and 3.
50

Enochian Sex Magick
FOURTH KEY
For invocations of the Angels of the letters of the line HCOMA the
sequence of Calls is 1, 2 and 4.
FIFTH KEY
For invocations of the Angels of the letters of the line NANTA the
sequence of Calls is 1, 2 and 5.
SIXTH KEY
For invocations of the Angels of the letters of the Line BITOM the
sequence of Calls is 1, 2 and 6.
THE ELEMENTAL TABLETS
THIRD KEY AIR
Use first in all invocations of the Angels of the Tablet of Air. (When
invoking a Senior or the Angels of subangle Air of Air it is the only call
necessary.)
FOURTH KEY WATER
Use first in all invocations of the Angels of the Tablet of Water
(When invoking a Senior or the Angels of subangle Water of Water it is the
only call necessary.)
FIFTH KEY EARTH
Use first in all invocations of the Angels of the Tablet of Earth.
(When invoking a Senior or the Angels of subangle Earth of Earth it is the
only call necessary.)
SIXTH KEY FIRE
Use first in all invocations of the Angels of the Tablet of Fire.
(When invoking a Senior or the Angels of subangle Fire of Fire it is the
only call necessary.)
SEVENTH KEY
WATER SUBANGLE OF AIR TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Water subangle of the Air Tablet,
the sequence of Calls is 3 and 7.
51

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
EIGHTH KEY
EARTH SUBANGLE OF AIR TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Earth subangle of the Air
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 3 and 8.
NINTH KEY
FIRE SUBANGLE OF AIR TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Fire subangle of the Air
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 3 and 9.
TENTH KEY
AIR SUBANGLE OF WATER TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Air subangle of the Water
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 4 and 10.
ELEVENTH KEY
EARTH SUBANGLE OF WATER TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Earth subangle of the Water
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 4 and 11.
TWELFTH KEY
FIRE SUBANGLE OF WATER TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Fire subangle of the Water
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 4 and 12.
THIRTEENTH KEY
AIR SUBANGLE OF EARTH TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Air subangle of the Earth
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 5 and 13.
FOURTEENTH KEY
WATER SUBANGLE OF EARTH TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Water subangle of the Earth
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 5 and 14.
52

Enochian Sex Magick
FIFTEENTH KEY
FIRE SUBANGLE OF EARTH TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Fire subangle of the Earth
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 5 and 15.
SIXTEENTH KEY
AIR SUBANGLE OF FIRE TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Air subangle of the Fire
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 6 and 16.
SEVENTEENTH KEY
WATER SUBANGLE OF FIRE TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Water subangle of the Fire
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 6 and 17.
EIGHTEENTH KEY
EARTH SUBANGLE OF FIRE TABLET
For invocations of the Angels of the Earth subangle of the Fire
Tablet, the sequence of Calls is 6 and 18.
THE CALL OR KEY
OF THE THIRTY ÆTHYRS
As we have mentioned above, the Nineteenth Call, or Key of the
Thirty Æthyrs, is the only call necessary for workings with the Æthyrs. It is
only necessary to change the name of the Æthyr itself near the beginning
of the Call.
Note: In a footnote in Chanokh, Crowley mentions a second name
in the Call that "...may appropriately be varied with the Aire". Try as I may
to discover a logical correlation between LIL (the Æthyr in question) and
IDOIGO (the footnoted name in question), I cannot. Until I do, I will
continue to vary the Call of the Thirty Æthyrs only with the name of the
Æthyr itself. If I am wrong I am willing to be forgiven.
53

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
MINIMUM RECOMMENDED OPERATING PROCEDURES
The question now arises "How do I go about implementing the
above information to invoke the Angels of the Elemental Tablets or begin
my exploration of the Æthyrs?"
The nature of the original Dee material is such as to make exact
and definitive operating procedures unclear. In other books of Enochian
Magick, particularly those written in the last 10 years, you will find
elaborate instructions that differ considerably from what is suggested
below.
As you become more familiar with the system you will develop
your own sense of what is logical and appropriate. It is very important
during the period of your learning curve to stay focused on source material
such as Chanokh.
Chanokh provides basic operating instructions, though not always
clearly. It is obvious that Crowley assumed the reader would have a basic
magical education and would be able to proceed somewhat on their own
understanding. These comments and the supplementary material in the
Appendix are intended to help on both these fronts. But we should not
ignore the obvious fact that Crowley's original presentation was very short
and straightforward. Nowhere does he even hint that the Magician must
engage in a long series of beseechments, coercions and just plain magical
whinings that characterize other branches of magick.
What is unique about Enochian Magick is the absence of such
infantile nonsense. Calls are addressed in the language of the beings
involved. There is a simple hierarchy that needs to be recognized. The rest
is between you and the Angels.
54

Enochian Sex Magick
To make matters even simpler he provides us with five flawlessly
constructed "Temple Openings" which are inserted prior to the First, Third,
Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Keys. By performing the "Temple Openings" prior to
reciting the Calls you will find almost half your work done. If you are
unclear as to the appropriate signs, pentagrams or hexagrams used in the
Temple Openings refer to the Appendix.
The simple procedure outlined below will take you anywhere you
wish to go with the system. Of course you are free to expand and innovate
upon the system as much as you feel necessary. (I would not, however,
advise that you omit any of the following steps)
PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS
TEMPLE ARRANGEMENTS
These can be as simple or as elaborate as you wish. A clean,
uncluttered room with an altar or table in the center is perfectly adequate.
You may wish to place your Elemental Tablets on the walls of the four
quarters (Air in the East, Fire in the South, Water in the West, and Earth in
the North) or you may wish to arrange them upon the altar. It is not
essential to have any Tablets in the Temple at all.
DIRECTIONS OF THE WORKING
When invoking, that is when you wish to bring the Spirit to you,
face the micro-cosmic-elemental direction dictated by the four winds;
operations of Air in the East, Fire in the South, Water in the West and
Earth in the North.
When you wish to visit the Spirit in its own world you face the
macro-cosmic-elemental direction dictated by the Zodiac; operations of
Fire in the East (Aries), Earth in the South (Capricorn), Air in the West
(Libra) and Water in the North (Cancer).
55


Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
the Spirit you wish to work with and any and all the names of its hierarchial
superiors.
IN ENOCHIAN
Ol vinu od zodakame, Ilasa, Gahe
(Insert Angel Name)
od elanusahe vaoresagi Iaida,
gohusa pujo ilasa, darebesa!
Do-o-i-ape____od____od____od____
od__(use as many names as necessary)
Ol vinu-ta od zodameta,
Ilasa, Gahe (Insert Angel Name)
IN ENGLISH
I invoke and move thee, 0 thou, Spirit
and being exalted above ye in the power of the Most High,
I say unto thee, obey! In the name of ___and ___ and ___
and ___and ___ I do invoke and by invoking conjure thee,
0 thou, Spirit ____.
Now set to work skrying. Keep paper and pencil handy. Some
prefer to have a tape recorder running. It is important to maintain some
level of objective consciousness. If you fall asleep you are likely to forget
your vision and may run into unpleasant complications.
If you run into any "spiritual" characters that make you feel
uncomfortable, test them first with the Holy Names from the Tablet you are
working with or (in the case of the Thirty Æthyrs), the names of the
Governors. If you are still having difficulties draw the appropriate banishing
pentagram (see Appendix for Banishing Pentagrams) and withdraw from
the vision.
Do not tire yourself. When you feel fatigued find an opportunity to
withdraw from the vision and Banish.
58

Enochian Sex Magick
STEP 3
CLOSE THE TEMPLE WITH THE
BANISHING RITUAL OF THE PENTAGRAM
I have found the Enochian system to be the safest, cleanest and
most logical system of practical magick one can perform. But it is an art
and as such requires not only study and practice but also inspiration and
the love-hate relationship all artists have with their craft. It is my hope that
our book has given you something to study, practice and inspire you.
59

Chapter five
Liber LXXXIV vel Chanokh
A BRIEF ABSTRACT OF THE SYMBOLIC REPRESENTATION OF THE
UNIVERSE DERIVED BY DOCTOR JOHN DEE THROUGH THE
SKRYING OF SIR EDWARD KELLY
PART I
The Skryer obtained from certain Angels a series of seven
talismans. These, grouped about the Holy Twelvefold Table, similarly
obtained, were part of the furniture of the Holy Table, as shewn in Plate I.
Other appurtenances of this table will be described hereafter.
II
Other Pantacles were obtained in a similar manner. (Plate II) is the
principal one, which, carved in wax, was placed upon the top of the table.
On four others stood the feet of the table.
Note first the Holy Sevenfold Table containing seven Names of
God which not even the Angels are able to pronounce.
SAAI 21/8 EME
BTZKASE30
HEIDENE
DEIMOL30A
I26MEGCBE
ILAOI 21/8 VN
IHRLAAL 21/8
These names are seen written without the heptagram within the heptagon.
61

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
By reading these obliquely are obtained names of Angels called—
(1) Filiæ Bonitatis or Filiolas Lucis.
E, Me, Ese, lana, Akele, Azdobn, Stimcul
(2) Filii Lucis.
I, Ih, Ilr, Dmal, Heeoa, Beigia, Stimcul
[These are given attributions to the Metals of the Planets in this order: Sol,
Luna, Venus, Jupiter, Mars, Mercury, Saturn.]
(3) Filiæ Filiarum Lucis.
S, Ab, Ath, Ized, Ekiei, Madimi, Esemeli
(4) Filii Filiorum Lucis.
L (EL), Aw, Ave, Liba, lode, Hagone(l), Ilemese
See all these names in the heptagram of the great seal.
So also there are Seven Great Angels formed thus: take the
comer letter S, then the diagonal next to it AB, then the next diagonal ATH,
the fourth diagonal, where is I with 21/8 (which indicates EL), and we have
the name—
SABATHIEL
Continuing the process, we get: ZEDEKIEL, MADIMIEL,
SEMELIEL,NOGAHEL, CORABIEL, LEVANAEL.
These names will be found in the Pentagram and about it.
These angels are the angels of the Seven Circles of Heaven.
These are but a few of the mysteries of this great seal: SIGILLVM
DEI ÆMETH
III
The Shew-stone, a crystal which Dee alleged to have been
brought to him by angels, was then placed upon this table, and the
principal result of the
62

Enochian Sex Magick
ceremonial skrying of Sir Edward Kelly is the obtaining of the following
diagrams, Plates III-VIII.
He symbolized the Fourth-Dimensional Universe in two
dimensions as a square surrounded by 30 concentric circles (the 30
Æthyrs or Aires) whose radii increase in a geometrical proportion.
The sides of the square are the four great watch-towers (Plates IV-
VII) which are attributed to the elements. There is also a "black cross" (or
"central tablet" according to the arrangement shewn—compare the black
cross bordering the tablets in Plate III with Plate VIII).
Plate III gives the general view.
[The reversed letters which form the word PARAOAN are written
in Enochian for convenience, as our A and 0 are not distinguishable
reverse from forward.]
Plate IV gives the complete attribution of the tablet of Air.
The 6th file is called Linea Patris.
The 7th file is called Linea Filii.
The 7th line is called Linea Spiritus Sancti.
The great cross divides the Tablet into four lesser (sub-elemental)
Tablets, the left-hand top corner being Air of Air, the right-hand top corner
Water of Air, the left-hand bottom corner Earth of Air, the remaining corner
Fire of Air.
Each of these lesser Tablets contains a Calvary Cross of ten
squares, which governs it.
Plates V, VI, and VII are similar for the other elements.
This is the way in which the names are drawn from the great
Tablets. [Examples taken from Water Tablet.]
1. Linea Spiritus Sancti gives the Three Holy Names of God of 3,
4, and 5 letters respectively:
63

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
MPH ARSL GAIOL
2. A whorl around the centre of the Tablet gives the name of the
Great Elemental King, RAAGIOSL [similarly for Air BATAIVAH, for Earth
ICZHHCAL, for Fire EDLPRNAA].
3. The 3 lines of the central cross of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost
give the names of 6 seniors. [Thus the 4 tablets hold 24 "elders," as stated
in the Apocalypse.] They are drawn of seven letters, each from the centre
to the sides of the tablet.
Linea Patris, SAIINOV and SOAIZNT
Linea Filii, LAOAZRP and LIGDISA
Linea S.S, SLGAIOL and LSRAHPM
These three sets of names rule the whole tablet, and must be
invoked before specializing in the lesser angles of the sub-elements.
4. The Calvary Crosses. The name upon the cross read vertically
is the name which calls forth the powers of the lesser angle.
NELAPR (water of water)
OLGOTA (air of water)
MALADI (earth of water)
IAAASD (fire of water)
The name read horizontally on the cross is that which compels the
evoked force to obedience.
OMEBB (water of water)
AALCO (air of water)
OCAAD (earth of water)
ATAPA (fire of water)
5. Above the bar of the Calvary Cross remain in each case four
squares. These are allotted to the Kerubim, who must next be invoked.
They are:
TDIM
DIMT
IMTD
MTDI,
being metatheses of these four letters. The initial
64

Enochian Sex Magick
determines the file governed; e.g., TDIM governs the file which reads
T(o)lLVR. These angels are most mighty and benevolent. They are ruled
by names of God formed by prefixing the appropriate letter from the "black
cross" to their own names.
6. Beneath the bar of the Calvary Cross remain 16 squares not yet
accounted for. Here, beneath the presidency of the Kerubim, rule four
mighty and benevolent angels—
INGM
LAOC
VSSN
RVOI
7. Triliteral names of demons or elementals are to
be formed from these 16 squares, uniting the two letters on either side of
the upright of the cross with a letter chosen from the Central Tablet or
black cross in accordance with rules which will be given in their due place.
Thus: GM, IN, OC, LA et cetera, form bases for these triliteral names.
The following rules explain how the sides of the pyramids of which
the squares are formed are attributed to the Sephiroth, Planets, Elements,
and Zodiacal signs.
1. Great Central Cross. This has 36 squares, for the decanates of
the Zodiac.
On the left side of the Pyramid, Linea Patris has the Cardinal
signs, the sign of the Element itself at the top, in the order of
Tetragrammaton (Fire, Water, Air, Earth) going upwards.
Linea Filii has the Common signs in the same order.
Linea S.S. has the Kerubic signs, that of the element on the left, in
the same order, right to left.
But the order of the decans in each sign is reverse, and thus the
planets which fill the right-hand side of the Pyramids go in the first two
cases downwards, and in the third from left to right.
65

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
The upper sides of the Pyramids are all attributed to the Element
of Spirit, the lower sides to the Element of the Tablet.
Each square is also referred to the small card of the Tarot which
corresponds to the Decan (refer to Crowley's work, 777, Weiser, 1972).
2. Calvary Crosses.
Each has 10 squares.
The upper sides of the Pyramids are uniformly given to Spirit, the
lower sides to the Sephiroth, in the order shewn. The left-hand sides are
attributed to the element of the Tablet, the right-hand sides to the sub-
element of the lesser angle.
3. Kerubic Squares.
The upper sides pertain to the element of the Tablet, the lower
sides to the sub-element. Right and left-hand sides in this case
correspond, according to a somewhat complex rule which it is
unnecessary to give here. The attributions to the Court Cards of the Tarot
naturally follow.
4. Lesser Squares.
The upper side of each pyramid is governed by the Kerub standing
on the pile above it. The lower side is governed by the Kerub also, but in
order descending as they are from right to left above. [See angle of Air of
Water; the Kerubs go Earth, Fire, Water, Air (from the square marked D,
the fifth from the left in the top rank of the Tablet), and downward the lower
sides of the squares marked 0, D, *E, Z (this should probably read 0, D, X,
Z. Ed) go Earth, Fire, Water, Air.]
The left-hand side refers to the element of the Tablet, the right-
hand side to the sub-element of the lesser angle.
5. The Black Cross of Central Tablet.
The upper and lower sides are equally attributed to Spirit.
66

Enochian Sex Magick
The left-hand sides to the element of the file, in this order from left
to right: Spirit, Air, Water, Earth, Fire.
The right-hand sides to the element of the rank in this order: Air,
Water, Earth, Fire.
IV
Follows Plate IX, the Alphabet in which all this is written. It is the
Alphabet of the Angelic Language. The invocations which we possess in
that tongue follow in their due place.
[It is called also Enochian, as these angels claimed to be those
which conversed with the "patriarch Enoch" of Jewish fable.]
V
The Thirty Æthyrs or Aires and their divisions and angels are as follows
[We omit for the present consideration of the parts of the earth to which
they are stated to correspond, and the question of the attributions to the
cardinal points and the Tribes of Israel. These are duly tabulated in Dee's
Liber Scientiæ, Auxilii, et Victoria Terrestris}:
Name of Aire
1. LIL.
2. ARN.
3. ZOM.
4.PAZ.
In All
14,931
15,960
17,296
11,660
Names of Governor Numbers of Servitors
OCCODON
PASCOMB
VALGARS
7209
2360
5362
DOAGNIS
PACASNA
DIALIVA
3636
2362
8962
SAMAPHA
VIROOLI
ANDISPI
4400
3660
9236
THOTANF
AXZIARG
POTHNIR
2360
3000
6300

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
5. LIT. LAZDIXI 8630
NOCAMAL 2306
TIARPAX 5802 16,736
6.MAZ. SAXTOMP 3620
VAVAAMP 9200
ZIRZIRD 7220 20,040
7. DEO. OBMACAS 6363
GENADOL 7706
ASPIAON 6320 20,389
8. ZID. ZAMFRES 4362
TODNAON 7236
PRISTAC 2302 13,900
9. ZIP. ODDIORG 9996
CRALPIR 3620
DOANZIN 4230 17,846
10. ZAX. LEXARPH 8880
COMANAN 1230
TABITOM 1617 11,727
[Note that these 3 names come from the black cross, with the addition of
an L. This L is one of the 8 reversed letters in the four watchtowers, the
other seven forming the word PARAOAN, q.v. infra.}
11. ICH. MOLPAND 3472
VANARDA 7236
PONODOL 5234 15,942
12. LOE. TAPAMAL 2658
GEDOONS 7772
AMBRIAL 3391 13,821
13. ZIM. GECAOND 8111
LAPARIN 3360
DOCEPAX 4213 15,684
68

Enochian Sex Magick
14. VTA. TEDOOND 2673
VIVIPOS 9236
OOANAMB 8230 20,139
15. OXO. TAHANDO 1367
NOCIABI 1367
TASTOXO 1886 4,620
16. LEA. COCARPT 9920
LANACON 9230
SOCHIAL 9240 28,390
17. TAN SIGMORF 7623
AYDROPT 7132
TOCARZI 2634 17,389
18. ZEN NABAOMI 2346
ZAFASAI 7689
YALPAMB 9276 19,311
19. POP. TORZOXI 6236
ABAIOND 6732
OMAGRAP 2388 15,356
20. KHR. ZILDRON 3626
PARZIBA 7629
TOTOCAN 3634 14,889
21. ASP. CHIRSPA 5536
TOANTOM 5635
VIXPALG 5658 16,929
22. LIN. OZIDAIA 2232
PARAOAN 2326
CALZIRG 2367 6,925
23. TOR. RONOAMB 7320
ONIZIMP 7262
ZAXANIN 7333 21,915
24. NIA. ORCAMIR 8200
CHIALPS 8360
SOAGEEL 8236 24,796
69

25. VTI. MIRZIND 5632
OBUAORS 6333
RANGLAM 6236 18,201
26. DES. POPHAND 9232
NIGRANA 3620
BAZCHIM 5637 18,489
27. ZAA. SAZIAMI 7220
MATHVLA 7560
ORPAMB 7263 22,043
28. BAG. LABNIXP 2360
FOCISNI 7236
OXLOPAR 8200 18,066
29. RII. VASTRIM 9632
ODRAXTI 4236
GOMZIAM 7635 21,503
30. TEX. TAONGLA 4632
GEMNIMB 9636
ADVORPT 7632
DOZINAL 5632 27,532
Plate X. shows us the names of these governors in the four
Watch-Towers. Compare with Plate III.
Note that the sigil of each Governor is unique; the four sigils at the
comers of Plate X. without the great square are those of the four great
Elemental Kings:
Air TAHAOELOJ
Water THAHEBYOBEEATAN
Earth THAHAAOTAHE
Fire OHOOOHAATAN
70


Enochian Sex Magick
PART II
THE FORTY-EIGHT CALLS OR KEYS
These are Most Solemn Invocations. Use these only after other
invocations. Key tablet hath 6 calls, 1 above other 5.
1: Governs generally as a whole the tablet of Union. Use it first in
all invocations of Angels of that tablet, but not at all with other 4 tablets.
2: Used as an invocation of Angels e h n b representing
governance of Spirit in the tablet of Union: also precedes, in the second
place, all invocations of Key tablet Angels. Not used i n invocations of 4
other tablets.
3, 4, 5, 6: Used in invocations of Angels of Tablet of Union, also of
angels of 4 terrestrial tablets, thus—
3: Used to invoke Angels of the letters of the line
e x a r p.
For those of Tablet ORO as a whole and for the lesser angle of
this tablet, which is that of the element itself, viz. i d o i g o. So for others—
The remaining 12 Keys refer to the remaining lesser angles of the
tablets, the order of the elements being Air, Water, Earth, Fire.
Pronounce Elemental language (also called Angelic or Enochian)
by inserting the next following Hebrew vowel between consonants, e.g. e
after b (bEth), i after g (gImel), a after d, etc.
THE OPENING OF THE PORTAL
OF THE VAULT OF THE ADEPTS
PAROKETH, the Veil of the Sanctuary.
The Sign of the Rending of the Veil.
The Sign of the Closing of the Veil.
[Give these.]
Make the Invoking Pentagrams of Spirit.
81

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
In the number 21, in the grand word AHIH ;
In the Name YHShVH, in the Pass Word I.N.R.I., O Spirits of the
Tablet of Spirit, Ye, ye, I invoke! The sign of Osiris slain! The sign of the
mourning of Isis! The sign ofApophis and Typhon! The sign of Osiris
Risen! L.V.X., Lux. The Light of the Cross. [Give these.]
In the name of IHVH ALVH VDOTh, I declare that the Spirits of
Spirit have been duly invoked. The Knock 1—4444.
THE FIRST KEY'
OL sonuf vaoresaji, gohu IAD Balata, elanusaha caelazod:
sobrazod-ol Roray i ta nazodapesad, Giraa ta maelpereji, das hoel-qo qaa
notahoa zodimezod, od comemahe ta nobeloha zodien; soba tahil
ginonupe pereje aladi, das vaurebes obolehe giresam. Casarem ohorela
caba Pire: das zodonurenusagi cab: erem ladanahe. Pilahe farezodem
zodenurezoda adana gono ladapiel das home-tohe: soba ipame lu ipamis:
das sobolo vepe zodomeda poamal, od bogira aai ta piape Piamoel od
Vaoan2 ! Zodacare, eca, od zodameranu! odo cicale Qaa; zodoreje, lape
zodiredo Noco Mada, Hoathahe I A I D A!
86 words in this Enochian Call.
[Invokes the whole Tablet of Spirit.]
--------------------------------
1) Collation of the various MSS. of these calls has not done away with Various Readings; and
there is not enough of the language extant to enable a settlement on general principles. —
Ed.
2) Read here Vooan in invocations of Fallen Spirits.
82

Enochian Sex Magick
THE FIRST KEY
I REIGN over ye, saith the God of Justice, in power exalted above
the Firmament of Wrath, in whose hands the Sun is as a sword, and the
Moon as a through thrusting Fire: who measureth your Garments in the
midst of my Vestures, and trussed you together as the palms of my hands.
Whose seats I garnished with the Fire of Gathering, and beautified
your garments with admiration. To whom I made a law to govern the Holy
Ones, and delivered ye a Rod, with the Ark of Knowledge. Moreover you
lifted up your voices and sware obedience and faith to Him that liveth and
triumpheth: whose beginning is not, nor end cannot be: which shineth as a
flame in the midst of your palaces, and reigneth amongst you as the
balance of righteousness and truth!
Move therefore, and shew yourselves! Open the mysteries of your
creation! Be friendly unto me, for I am the Servant of the same your God:
the true worshipper of the Highest!
169 words in the English Call.
THE SECOND KEY
ADAGITA vau-pa-ahe zodonugonu fa-a-ipe salada! Vi-i-vau el!
Sobame ial-pereji i-zoda-zodazod pi-adapehe casarema aberameji ta ta-
labo paracaleda qo-ta lores-el-qo turebesa ooge balatohe! Giui cahisa
lusada oreri od micalapape cahisa bia ozodonugonu! lape noanu tarofe
coresa tage o-quo maninu IA-I-DON. Torezodu! gohe-el, zodacare eca ca-
no-quoda! zodameranu micalazodo od ozadazodame vaurelar; lape zodir
IOIAD!
THE SECOND KEY
CAN the Wings of the Winds understand your voices of Wonder? 0
you! the second of the First! whom the burning flames have framed in the
depth of my Jaws! Whom I have prepared as cups for a
83


Enochian Sex Magick
[Make the Cross.] In the Names and Letters of the Great Eastern
Quadrangle, Spirits of Air, Adore your Creator!
[Hold dagger aloft.] In the Three great Secret Names of God, ORO
IBAH AOZPI that are borne upon the Banners of the East, Spirits of Air,
adore your Creator!
[Again elevate dagger.] In the Name of BATAIVAH, great King of
the East, Spirits of Air, adore your Creator!
In the Name of Shaddai AL Chai, I declare that the Spirits of Air
have been duly invoked.
The Knock 333—333—333.
THE THIRD KEY
MICAMA! goho Pe-IAD! zodir com-selahe azodien biabe os-lon-
dohe. Norezodacahisa otahila Gigipahe; vaunud-el-cahisa ta-pu-ime qo-
mos-pelehe telocahe; qui-i-inu toltoregi cahisa i cahisaji em ozodien;
dasata beregida od torezodul! Hi e-01 balazodareji, od aala tahilanu-os
netaabe: daluga vaomesareji elonusa cape-mi-ali vaoresa cala homila;
cocasabe fafenu izodizodope, od miinoagi de ginetaabe: vaunu na-na-e-el:
panupire malapireji caosaji. Pilada noanu vaunalahe balata od-vaoan. Do-
o-i-ape mada: goholore, gohus, amiranu! Micama! Yehusozod ca-ca-com,
od do-o-a-inu noari micaolazoda a-ai-om. Casarameji gohia: Zodacare!
Vaunigilaji! od im-ua-mar pugo pelapeli Ananael Qo-a-an.
Eighty words in the Enochian Call.
THE THIRD KEY
BEHOLD! saith your God! I am a circle on whose hands stand
Twelve Kingdoms. Six are the seats of living breath: the rest are as sharp
Sickles, or the Horns of Death. Wherein the creatures of Earth are and
85


Enochian Sex Magick
Sea! In the Name of AL, Strong and Powerful, and in the name of ALHIM
TzBAVTh, Spirits of Water, adore you Creator!
[Make Sigil of Eagle with cup.] In the name of GBRIAL and in the
sign of the Eagle, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!
[Make cross with cup.] In all the Names and Letters of the Great
Quadrangle of the West, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!
[Elevate cup.] In the three great Secret Names of God MPH ARSL
GAIOL that are borne upon the Banners of the West, Spirits of Water,
adore your Creator!
[Elevate cup.] In the Name of RAAGIOSEL, great King of the
West, Spirits of Water, adore your Creator!
In the name of Elohim Tzabaoth, I declare that the Spirits of Water
have been duly invoked.
The Knock. 1—333—1—333.
THE FOURTH KEY
OTAHIL elasadi babaje, od dorepaha gohol: gi-cahisaje auauago
coremepe peda, dasonuf vi-vau-di-vau? Casaremi oeli meapeme sobame
agi coremepo carep-el: casaremeji caro-o-dazodi cahisa od vaugeji;
dasata ca-pi-mali cahisa ca-pi-ma-on: od elonusahinu cahisa ta el-o calaa.
Torezodu nor-quasahi od fe-caosaga: Bagile zodir e-na-IAD: das iod apila!
Do-o-a-ipe quo-A-AL, zodacare! Zodameranu obelisonugi resat-el aaf nor-
mo-lapi!
THE FOURTH KEY
I HAVE set my feet in the South, and have looked about me,
saying: are not the thunders of increase numbered 33, which reign in the
second Angle?
Under whom I have placed 9639: whom none hath yet numbered,
but One; in whom the Second Beginnings of Things are and wax strong,
which also
87

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
successively are the Numbers of Time: and their powers are as the first
456.
Arise! you sons of Pleasure! and visit the earth: for I am the Lord your
God; which is and liveth (for ever)! In the name of the Creator, move! and
shew yourselves as pleasant deliverers, that you may praise him among
the sons of men!
[Invokes: Hcoma; the whole tablet of Water.
The Angle of Water of Water.
The Queen of the Thrones of Water.]
THE OPENING OF THE TEMPLE IN THE
GRADE OF 1° = 10°
GIVE the Sign of the God SET fighting.
Purify with Fire and Water, and announce "The Temple is
cleansed."
[Knock.] Let us adore the Lord and King of Earth!
Adonai ha Aretz, Adonai Melekh, unto Thee be the Kingdom, the
Sceptre, and the Splendour:
Malkuth, Geburah, Gedulah, The Rose of Sharon and the Lily of
the Valley, Amen!
[Sprinkle Salt before Earth tablet.] Let the Earth adore Adonai!
[Make the Invoking Hexagram of Saturn.]
[Make the Invoking Pentagram of Spirit Passive, and pronounce
these Names: AHIH AGLA NANTA.]
[Make the Invoking Pentagram of Earth, and pronounce this
Name: ADNI MLK.]
And Elohim said: Let us make Man in Our own image; and let
them have dominion over the Fish of the Sea and over the Fowl of the Air:
and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the Earth. And the
Elohim created ATh-h-ADAM: in the image of the Elohim created They
them; male and female created They them. In the Name of ADNI MLK,
and of the
88

Enochian Sex Magick
Bride and Queen of the Kingdom; Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!
[Make the Sign of Taurus.] In the Name of AVRIAL, great
archangel of Earth, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!
[Make the Cross.] In the Names and Letters of the Great Northern
Quadrangle, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!
[Sprinkle water before Earth Tablet.] In the three great secret
Names of God, MOR, DIAL, HCTGA, that are borne upon the Banners of
the North, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!
[Cense the Tablet.] In the name of IC-ZOD-HEH-CA(L), great King
of the North, Spirits of Earth, adore your Creator!
In the Name of Adonai Ha-Aretz, I declare that the Spirits of Earth
have been duly invoked.
The Knock. 4444—333—22—1.
THE FIFTH KEY
SAPAHE zodimii du-i-be, od noasa ta qu-a-nis, adarocahe
dorepehal caosagi od faonutas peripesol ta-be-liore. Casareme A-me-
ipezodi na-zodaretahe afa; od dalugare zodizodope zode-lida caosaji tol-
toregi; od zod-cahisa esiasacahe El ta-vi-vau; od iao-d tahilada das
hubare pe-o-al; soba coremefa cahisa ta Ela Vaulasa od Quo-Co-Casabe.
Eca niisa od darebesa quo-a-asa: fetahe-ar-ezodi od beliora: ia-ial eda-
nasa cicalesa; bagile Ge-iad I-el!
THE FIFTH KEY
THE mighty sounds have entered into the third angle, and are
become as olives in the Olive Mount; looking with gladness upon the
earth, and dwelling in the brightness of the Heavens as continual
Comforters.
Unto whom I fastened 19 Pillars of Gladness, and gave them
vessels to water the earth with her creatures; and they are the brothers of
the First and Second, and
89


Enochian Sex Magick
In the Name of IHVH TzBAVTh, I declare that the Spirits of Fire
have been duly invoked.
The Knock. 333—1—333.
THE SIXTH KEY
GAHE sa-div cahisa em, micalazoda Pil-zodinu, sobam El haraji mir
babalonu od obeloce samevelaji, dalagare malapereji ar-caosaji od acame
canale, sobola zodare fa-beliareda caosaji od cahisa aneta-na miame ta
Viv od Da. Daresare Sol-petahe-bienu. Be-ri-ta od zodacame ji-mi-
calazodo: sob-ha-atahe tarianu luia-he od ecarinu MADA Qu-a-a-on!
THE SIXTH KEY
THE Spirits of the fourth angle are Nine, Mighty in the Firmament of
Waters: whom the First hath planted, a torment to the wicked and a
garland to the righteous: giving unto them fiery darts to vanne the earth,
and 7699 continual workmen, whose courses visit with comfort the earth;
and are in government and continuance as the Second and the Third—
Therefore hearken unto my voice! I have talked of you, and I move you in
power and presence, whose works shall be a song of honour, and the
praise of your God in your Creation!
[Invokes: Bitom; the whole tablet of Fire.
The Angle of Fire of Fire
The Lord of the Flame and the Lightning,
The King of the Spirits of Fire.]
THE SEVENTH KEY
RA-ASA isalamanu para-di-zoda oe-cari-mi aao iala-pire-gahe Qui-
inu. Enai butamonu od inoasa ni pa-ra-diala. Casaremeji ujeare
cahirelanu, od zodonace lucifatianu, caresa ta vavale-zodirenu tol-hami.
Soba lonudohe od nuame cahisa ta Da o Desa vo-ma-dea od pi-beliare
itahila rita od miame ca-ni-quola rita! Zodacare! Zodameranu! lecarimi
Quo-a-dahe od I-
91

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
mica-ol-zododa aaiome. Bajirele papenore idalu-gama elonusahi—od
umapelifa vau-ge-ji Bijil —IAD!
THE SEVENTH KEY
THE East is a house of Virgins singing praises among the flames of
first glory wherein the Lord hath opened his mouth; and they are become
28 living dwellings in whom the strength of man rejoiceth; and they are
apparelled with ornaments of brightness, such as work wonders on all
creatures. Whose kingdoms and continuance are as the Third and Fourth,
strong towers and places of comfort, the Seats of Mercy and Continuance.
0 ye Servants of Mercy, Move! Appear! Sing praises unto the Creator; and
be mighty amongst us. For that to this remembrance is given power, and
our strength waxeth strong in our Comforter!
The Angle of Water of Air, in the tablet of Air.
The Queen of the Thrones of Air.
THE EIGHT KEY
BAZODEMELO i ta pi-ripesonu olanu Na-zodavabebe ox.
Casaremeji varanu cahisa vaugeji asa berameji balatoha: goho IAD. Soba
miame tarianu ta lolacis Abaivoninu od azodiajiere riore. Irejila cahisa da
das pa-aox busada Caosago, das cahisa od ipuranu telocahe cacureji o-
isalamahe lonucaho od Vovina carebafe? NIISO! bagile avavago gohon.
NIISO! bagile momao siaionu, od mabezoda IAD oi asa-momare poilape.
NIIASA! Zodameranu ciaosi caosago od belioresa od coresi ta a beramiji.
THE EIGHTH KEY
THE Midday, the first is as the third Heaven made of 26
Hyacinthine Pillars, in whom the Elders are become strong, which I have
prepared for mine own Righteousness, saith the Lord: whose long
continuance shall be as bucklers to the Stooping Dragon, and like unto the
harvest of a Widow. How
92

Enochian Sex Magick
many are there which remain in the Glory of the Earth, which are, and
shall not see Death until the House fall and the Dragon sink? Come away!
for the Thunders (of increase) have spoken. Come away! for the Crowns
of the Temple and the Robe of Him that is, was, and shall be, crowned,
are divided! Come forth! Appear! to the terror of the Earth, and to our
comfort, and to the comfort of such as are prepared.
The Angle of Earth of Air, in the tablet of Air.
The Princess of the Rushing Winds,
the Lotus of the Palace of Air.
THE NINTH KEY
MICAOLI beranusaji perejela napeta ialapore, das barinu efafaje Pe
vaunupeho olani od obezoda, soba-ca upaahe cahisa tatanu od tarananu
balie, alare busada so-bolunu od cahisa hoel-qo ca-no-quodi cial.
Vaunesa aladonu mom caosago ta iasa olalore ginai limelala. Amema
cahisa sobra madarida zod cahisa! Ooa moanu cahisa avini darilapi
caosajinu: od butamoni pareme zodumebi canilu. Dazodisa etahamezoda
cahisa dao, od mireka ozodola cahisa pidiai Colalala. Ul ci ninu a sobame
ucime. Bajile? IAD BALATOHE cahirelanu pare! NIISO! od upe ofafafe;
bajile a-cocasahe icoresaka a uniji beliore.
THE NINTH KEY
A MIGHTY guard of Fire with two-edged swords flaming (which
have eight Vials of wrath for two times and a half, whose wings are of
wormwood and of the marrow of salt), have set their feet in the West, and
are measured with their 9996 ministers. These gather up the moss of the
Earth as the rich man doth his Treasure. Cursed are they whose iniquities
they are! In their eyes are mill-stones greater than the earth, and from their
mouths run seas of blood. Their heads are covered with diamonds, and
upon their heads are
93

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
marble stones3 Happy is he on whom they frown not. For why? The Lord
of Righteousness rejoiceth in them! Come away, and not your Vials: for
that the time is such as requireth Comfort.
The Angle of Fire of Air, in the tablet of Air.
The Lord of the Winds and Breezes,
the King of the Spirits of Air.
THE TENTH KEY
CORAXO cahisa coremepe, od belanusa Lucala azodiazodore
paebe Soba iisononu cahisa uirequo ope copehanu od racalire maasi
bajile caosagi; das yalaponu dosiji od basajime; od ox ex dazodisa
siatarisa od salaberoxa cynuxire faboanu. Vaunala cahisa conusata das
daox cocasa ol Oanio yore vohima ol jizodyazoda od eoresa cocasaji
pelosi molui das pajeipe, laraji same darolanu matorebe cocasaji emena.
El pataralaxa yolaci matabe nomiji mononusa olora jinayo anujelareda.
Ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! ohyo! noibe Ohyo! caosagonu! Bajile
madarida i zodirope cahiso darisapa! NIISO! caripe ipe nidali!
THE TENTH KEY
THE Thunders of Judgement and Wrath are numbered and are
harboured in the North, in the likeness of an Oak whose branches are 22
nests of lamentation and weeping laid up for the earth: which burn night
and day, and vomit out the heads of scorpions and live Sulphur mingled
with poison. These be the thunders that, 5678 times in the twenty-fourth
part of a moment, roar with a hundred might earthquakes and a thousand
times as many surges, which rest not, neither know any4 time here. One
rock bringeth forth a thousand, even as the heart of man doth his thoughts.
Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe! Woe!
---------------------------------
3) v.l. "Upon their hands are marble sleeves."
4) v.l. "Any echoing time between."
94

Enochian Sex Magick
Yea, Woe be to the Earth, for her iniquity is, was, and shall be great.
Come away! but not your mighty sounds!
The Angle of Air of Water, in the tablet of Water.
The Prince of the Chariot of the Waters.
THE ELEVENTH KEY
OXIAYALA holado, od zodirome 0 coraxo das zodiladare raasyo. Od
vabezodire cameliaxa od bahala: NIISO! salamanu telocahe! Casaremanu
hoel-qo, od ti ta zod cahisa soba coremefa i ga. NIISA! bagile aberameji
nonucape. Zodacare eca od Zodameranu! odo cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, lape
zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA!
THE ELEVENTH KEY
THE mighty Seat groaned, and there were five Thunders that flew
into the East. And the Eagle spake and cried aloud: Come away from the
House of Death! And they gathered themselves together and became
(those) of whom it is measured, and it is as They are, whose number is 31.
Come away! For I have prepared (a place) for you. Move therefore, and
shew yourselves! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation. Be friendly unto
me, for I am the servant of the same your God: the true worshipper of the
the Highest.
The Angle of Earth of Water, in the tablet of Water.
The Princess of the Waters,
the Lotus of the Palace of the Floods.
THE TWELFTH KEY
NONUCI dasonuf Babaje od cahisa ob hubaio tibibipe: alalare
ataraahe od ef! Darix fafenu mianu ar Enayo ovof! Soba dooainu aai i
VONUPEHE. Zodacare, gohusa, od Zodameranu. Odo cicale Qaa!
Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA!
95

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
THE TWELFTH KEY
0 YE that range in the South and are the 28 Lanterns of Sorrow,
bind up your girdles and visit us! bring down your train 3663 (servitors),
that the Lord may be magnified, whose name amongst ye is Wrath. Move!
I say, and shew yourselves! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation. Be
friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the same your God, the true
worshipper of the Highest.
The Angle of Fire of Water, in the tablet of Water.
The Lord of the Waves and the Waters,
the King of the Hosts of the Sea.
THE THIRTEENTH KEY
NAPEAI Babajehe das berinu vox ooaona larinuji vonupehe
doalime: conisa olalogi oresaha das cahisa afefa. Micama isaro Mada od
Lonu-sahi-toxa, das ivaumeda aai Jirosabe. Zodacare od Zodameranu.
Odo cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.
THE THIRTEENTH KEY
O YE Swords of the South, which have 42 eyes to stir up the wrath
of Sin: making men drunken which are empty: Behold the Promise of God,
and His Power, which is called amongst ye a bitter sting! Move and
Appear! unveil the mysteries of your Creation, for I am the servant of the
same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.
The Angle of Air of Earth, in the tablet of Earth.
The Prince of the Chariot of Earth.
THE FOURTEENTH KEY
NORONI bajihie pasahasa Oiada! das tarinuta mireca ol tahila
dodasa tolahame caosago Aomida: das berinu orocahe quare: Micama!
Bial' Oiad; aisaro toxa das ivame aai Balatima. Zodacare od Zodameranu!
96

Enochian Sex Magick
Odo cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.
THE FOURTEENTH KEY
O YE Sons of Fury, the Daughters of the Just One! that sit upon
24 seats, vexing all creatures of the Earth with age, that have 1636 under
ye. Behold! The voice of God: the promise of Him who is called amongst
ye Fury or Extreme Justice. Move and shew yourselves! Unveil the
mysteries of your Creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the
same your God: the true worshipper of the Highest!
The Angle of Water of Earth, in the tablet of Earth.
The Queen of the Thrones of Earth.
THE FIFTEENTH KEY
ILASA! tabaanu li-El pereta, casaremanu upaahi cahisa dareji; das
oado caosaji oresacore: das omaxa monasaci Baeouibe od emetajisa
laiadix. Zodacare od Zodameranu! Odo cicale Qaa. Zodoreje, lape
zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.
THE FIFTEENTH KEY
O THOU, the Governor of the first Flame, under whose wings are
6739; that weave the Earth with dryness: that knowest the Great Name
"Righteousness," and the Seal of Honour. Move and Appear! Unveil the
mysteries of your creation; be • friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the
same your God: the true worshipper of the Highest!
The Angle of Fire of Earth, in the tablet of Earth.
The Lord of the Wide and Fertile Land,
the King of the Spirits of Earth.
THE SIXTEENTH KEY
ILASA viviala pereta! Salamanu balata, das acaro odazodi busada,
od belioraxa balita: das inusi caosaji lusadanu emoda: das ome od taliobe:
darilapa iehe ilasa
97

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
Mada Zodilodarepe. Zodacare od Zodameranu. Odo cicale Qaa: zodoreje,
lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.
THE SIXTEENTH KEY
O THOU second Flame, the House of Justice, which hast thy
beginning in glory and shalt comfort the Just: which walkest upon the
Earth with 8763 feet, which understand and separate creatures! Great art
thou in the God of Stretch forth and Conquer. Move and appear! Unveil the
mysteries of your Creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the
same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.
The Angle of Air of Fire, in the tablet of Fire.
The Prince of the Chariot of Fire.
THE SEVENTEENTH KEY
ILASA dial pereta! soba vaupaahe cahisa nanuba zodixalayo
dodasihe od berinutafaxisa hubaro tasataxa yolasa: soba lad / Vonupehe
o Uonupehe: aladonu dax ila od toatare! Zodacare od Zodameranu! Odo
cicale Qaa! Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.
THE SEVENTEENTH KEY
O THOU third Flame! whose wings are thorns to stir up vexation,
and who hast 7336 living lamps going before Thee: whose God is "Wrath
in Anger":
Gird up thy loins and hearken! Move and Appear! Unveil the
mysteries of your Creation; be friendly unto me, for I am the servant of the
same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.
The Angle of Water of Fire, in the tablet of Fire.
The Queen of the Thrones of Flame.
THE EIGHTEENTH KEY
ILASA micalazoda olapireta ialpereji beliore: das odo Busadire Oiad
ouoaresa caosago: casaremeji
98

Enochian Sex Magick
Laiada eranu berinutasa cafafame das ivemeda aqoso adoho Moz, od
maof-fasa. Bolape como belioreta pamebeta. Zodacare od Zodameranu!
Odo cicale Qaa. Zodoreje, lape zodiredo Noco Mada, hoathahe IAIDA.
THE EIGHTEENTH KEY
O THOU mighty Light and burning Flame of Comfort! that
unveilest the Glory of God to the centre of the Earth, in whom the 6332
secrets of Truth have their abiding, that is called in thy kingdom "Joy" and
not to be measured. Be thou a window of comfort unto me! Move and
Appear! Unveil the mysteries of your Creation, be friendly unto me, for I
am the servant of the same your God, the true worshipper of the Highest.
The Angle of Earth of Fire, in the tablet of Fire.
The Princess of the Shining Flame,
the Rose of the Palace of Fire.
MARK WELL!
THESE first 18 calls are in reality 19; that is, 19 in the Celestial
Orders; but with us the first table hath no call, and can have no call, seeing
that it is of the Godhead. Thus, then, with us hath it the number of 0,
though with them that of 1. (Even as the first key of the ROTA hath the
number 0.)
After this follow the calls or keys of the Thirty Aires or Æthyrs:
which are in substance similar, though, in the name of the Æthyrs,
diversified.
The titles of the Thirty Æthyrs whose dominion extendeth in ever-
widening circles without and beyond the Watch Towers of the Universe.
(The first is Outermost)
1 LIL 16 LEA
2 ARN 17 TAN
3 ZOM 18 ZEN
99

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
THE CALL OR KEY OF THE THIRTY ÆTHYRS
MADARIATZA das perifa LIL5cahisa micaolazoda saanire caosago
od fifisa balzodizodarasa laida. Nonuça gohulime: Micama adoianu MADA
faoda beliorebe, soba ooaona cahisa luciftias peripesol, das aberaasasa
nonuçafe netaaibe caosaji od tilabe adapehaheta damepelozoda, tooata
nonuçafe jimicalazodoma larasada tofejilo marebe yareryo IDOIGO6 od
torezodulape yaodafe gohola, Caosaga, tabaoreda saanire, od
caharisateosa yorepoila tiobela busadire, tilabe noalanu paida oresaba, od
dodaremeni zodayolana. Elazodape tilaba pare-meji peripesatza, od ta
qurelesata booapisa. Lanibame oucaho sayomepe, od caharisateosa
ajitoltorenu, mireca qo tiobela lela. Tonu paomebeda dizodalamo asa
pianu, od caharisateosa aji-la-tore-torenu paracahe a sayomepe.
Coredazodizoda dodapala od fifalazoda, lasa manada, od faregita bamesa
omaoasa. Conisabera od auauotza tonuji oresa; catabela noasami
tabejesa leuitahemonuji. Vanucahi ome-petilabe oresa! Bagile? Moooabe
OL coredazodizoda. El capimao itzomatzipe, od
-----------------------------------
5) Or other Aire as may be willed.
6) This name maybe appropriately varied with the Aire.
100
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
POP
KHR
ASP
LIN
TOR
NIA
VTI
DES
ZAA
BAG
RII
TEX
PAZ
LIT
MAZ
DEO
ZID
ZIP
ZAX
ICH
LOE
ZIM
UTA
OXO
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15

Enochian Sex Magick
cacocasabe gosaa. Bajilenu pit tianuta a babalanuda, od faoregita teloca
uo uime.
Madariiatza, torezodu!!! Oadariatza orocaha aboaperi! Tabaori
periazoda aretabasa! Adarepanu coresata dobitza! Yolacame periazodi
arecoazodiore, od quasabe qotinuji! Ripire paaotzata sagacore! Umela od
peredazodare cacareji Aoiveae coremepeta! Torezodu! Zodacare od
Zodameranu, asapeta sibesi butamona das surezodasa Tia balatanu. Odo
cicale Qaa, od Ozodazodama pelapeli IADANAMADA!
THE CALL OR KEY OF THE THIRTY ÆTHYRS
O YE Heavens which dwell in the First Aire, ye are mighty in the
parts of the Earth, and execute the Judgment of the Highest! Unto you it is
said: Behold the Face of your God, the beginning of Comfort, whose eyes
are the brightness of the Heavens, which provided you for the Government
of the Earth, and her unspeakable variety, furnishing you with a power of
understanding to dispose all things according to the Providence of Him
that sitteth on the Holy Throne, and rose up in the Beginning, saying: The
Earth, let her be governed by her parts, and let there be Division in her,
that the glory of her may be always drunken, and vexed in itself. Her
course, let it run with the Heavens; and as an handmaid let her serve
them. One season, let it confound another, and let there be no creature
upon or within her the same. All her me mbers, let them differ in their
qualities, and let there be no one Creature equal with another. The
reasonable Creatures of the Earth, and Men, let them vex and weed out
one another; and their dwelling-places, let them forget their Names. The
work of man and his pomp, let them be defaced. His buildings, let them
become Caves for the beasts of the Field! Confound her understanding
with darkness! For why? it repenteth me that I have made Man. One while
let her be known, and another while a stranger: because she is
101

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
the bed of an Harlot, and the dwelling-place of him that is fallen.
0 ye Heavens, arise! The lower heavens beneath you, let them
serve you! Govern those that govern! Cast down such as fall. Bring forth
with those that increase, and destroy the rotten. No place let it remain in
one number. Add and diminish until the stars be numbered. Arise! Move!
and appear before the Covenant of His mouth, which He hath sworn unto
us in His Justice. Open the Mysteries of your Creation, and make us
partakers of THE UNDEFILED KNOWLEDGE.
Finished are the Calls or Keys.
The Three Mighty Names of God
Almighty coming forth from
The Thirty Æthyrs
THE First Name—
LAZodaPeLaMeDaZodaZODaZodILaZodUOLaTaZodaPe-
KALaTaNuVaDaZodaBeReTa.
The Second Name—
IROAIAEIIAKOITaXEAEOHeSIOIITEAAIE.
The Third Name—
LaNuNuZodaTaZodODaPeXaHEMAOANuNuPeRePeNu-
RAISAGIXa.
Ended are the Forty-eight Calls or Keys.
102

Chapter Six
Divine Eroticism
Intimate union of the worshipper with the Divine Principal is a
central theme of religion. It is quite natural that the images which are
evoked by the Devotee in his ardor for the Beloved are identical or similar
to those that accompany sexual longings. The traditional cultures of India
and the Orient, of Africa, Polynesia, of the natives of North and South
America, indeed of almost any culture unpolluted by Judeo-Christian-
Islamic thought, have no difficulty whatsoever with this parallel.
With the exception of the Song of Solomon, Western religious
literature avoids Divine Eroticism like the plague. Even the esoteric
disciplines of the West seem uncomfortable with the subject and go to
great lengths to veil their terms. The bizarre nomenclature of Alchemy,
when studied with half your brain in the bedroom, reveals that perhaps
there are several good reasons why the alchemists were called "puffers".
But for the most part, we in the West are expected to unite with our Divine
Beloved vicariously.
Nuns are the "Brides of Christ", we unite with the Father or the
Mother only "through the Son." Even the "magic" ceremony needed to
consummate these voyeuristic unions must be experienced vicariously
through a priest. In the highly explicit book The Ultimate Taboo—Sex,
Religion and Magic (New Falcon Publications, 1991), we explore the
abnormalities of such practices and the psycho-sociological phobic
reactions to Sex Magic.
I do not intend to use this space to serve as an introduction to the
theories or techniques of Sex
103

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
Magick or Tantra. There are many fine works available that introduce
those subjects very well. For the reader who is already knowledgeable on
these subjects, a few helpful hints concerning how Enochian can be used
in these areas may prove valuable and rewarding.
The modern view that our normal waking consciousness stands
somewhere between the limitless potential of transcendental experience
and the "demons" that run amok in our subconscious mind is not too
dissimilar to the medieval view that Mankind is sandwiched between God
and the Angels, between Heaven and Hell. The working hypothesis of the
magician of old went something like this, "God has dominion over me and
compels me to do His will. I have dominion over the spirit world,
(especially over the so-called fallen angels), and just as I look up to God,
they look up to me, therefore I can compel them to do my bidding."
In 1458, the noted Qabalist and court magician, Abraham the Jew,
in his classic work. The Book of the Sacred Magick of Abra-Melin The
Mage, took this concept of the hierarchy of responsibility a sublime step
forward and catapulted magick to the same level as the Yogic disciplines.
Simply put, to work the magick, you must first be united with
Divinity. (This experience he calls The Knowledge and Conversation of the
Holy Guardian Angel.) This initiatory landmark is only accomplished after a
six month period of purification and a strict regimen of ever-increasing
longing for union with the Angel. Once this "marriage" is consummated
and the "blessing" of the Angel's presence is bestowed, the magician
immediately turns to the lower spiritual world and bestows the same
"blessing" on the resident denizens and extracts from them a pledge of
loyalty and support.
104

Enochian Sex Magick
These wild and infernal spirits who, up until now were
unacknowledged, uncontrolled and most likely at odds with the True Will of
the magician, were now going to be given the opportunity to work for his
and their greater good. And now that the magician had formed an intimate
alliance with the Divine, he had the spiritual "authority" to force the lower
spirits to cooperate.
Thus, Abraham the Jew reveals an indispensable truth; Magick
demands an assault on two fronts at once. It requires realization of your
responsibility not only to that which is above but also to that which is
below.
It is only through you that the Divine (your Superconsciousness)
can manifest on this plane. Without you the spirits of the Infernal regions
(your subconsciousness) have no hope of "salvation" (balance and
control). Indeed, without your controlling influence they will become a very
real threat to your life and sanity. You must see to it that each area
receives proper and equal attention. Neglect your higher aspiration and
you will find that you soon lack the spiritual integrity to command the
spirits. Neglect the spirits and they will sooner or latter surface to demand
your attention. Wild beasts can be domesticated and trained to serve you.
If you treat them well and allow them to share in your continuing good
fortune they can realize their greater potentiality. However, if you abuse
them or forget to feed them they will inevitably seize the first opportunity to
break out and devour you for their needed nourishment.
The two pillars of the Enochian system, as outlined in Liber
Chanokh are:
THE ELEMENTAL WATCH-TOWERS OF THE UNIVERSE AND THE
TABLET OF UNION
THE WORLD OF THE ELEMENTAL BEINGS
105

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
THE THIRTY ÆTHYRS WHOSE DOMINION EXTENDETH IN EVER-
WIDENING CIRCLES WITHOUT AND BEYOND THE WATCH-
TOWERS OF THE UNIVERSE.
THE WORLD OF THE DIVINE BEINGS
Both these worlds can be explored sexually and can provide the diligent
magician with the joy and fulfillment of his or her Divine Beloved and the
passion and energy of being the Divine Beloved to an Elemental lover.
Please pay special attention to the following.
ENOCHIAN SEX MAGICK
But to love me is better than all things
Liber AL, I, 61
I will now proceed to ignore my own advice regarding other
magician's visions. I hope the reader will recognize the value of what
follows and will kindly forgive me.
In the series of visions of the 30 Æthyrs that Crowley chronicled in
his remarkable work. The Vision And The Voice, he describes his vision of
the Body of the great Goddess. The imagery is so powerful and his
narrative colored with expressions of such tender awe, that one cannot but
share, however temporarily, his overwhelming desire to unite with Her. To
lose oneself utterly in Her would most certainly result in such intensity of
bliss as to make the ecstasy of orgasm seem as a candle held up to the
sun.
But that was Crowley's vision... Crowley's Great Goddess. To
dwell on Her when you have your own Great Goddess (or God) "waiting"
for your devotion would be as stupid as refusing a date with the lovely girl
next door (who has secretly loved you all her life) because you have to sit
at home alone, and pine over a painting of Helen of Troy.
106

Enochian Sex Magick
Do you see where I'm heading with this? By a serious and
concerted effort on your part, it is possible for you to achieve the highest
level of spiritual experience your evolutionary-initiatory status will permit,
including a relationship with the Divine Beloved. Once you "know" Her (or
Him) all subsequent "earthly" ecstasies take the form of devotional
offerings to the Great Lover who rewards the devotee with increasingly
sweeter embraces until finally the embrace is eternal.
Where do you seek the initial Vision?
In yourself.
How can you start to look in yourself?
One way is by systematically skrying the 30 Æthyrs.
Nor let the fools mistake love; for there are love and love.
There is the dove, and there is the serpent. Choose ye well!
Liber AL, 1,57
In The Little Mermaid, Hans Christian Andersen writes of an
Undine who is so enamored of a mortal man that she relinquishes her
status as an immortal being for the opportunity to love and be loved by
him. This charming tale contains a profound magical truth. Elemental
spirits, whose natures are so specialized that they lack the balance of
qualities necessary for sentient life, do indeed long for union with
"complete" beings such as ourselves. Because their natures are universal
they truly are immortal and if they should ever achieve union with a mortal
they would actually "die" to their old, incomplete existence to be "born" into
the life of their beloved. This is exactly what we do in our relationship with
the Divine Principal.
The spirits of the Elemental Tablets are particularly suitable for
such operations and all that is required is to call them up. It is so simple
that you may
107

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
set to work ill-prepared for success. A few words of caution might be in
order.
Think before you proceed. Just what are you really prepared to
handle? Experience has shown that it is most often wisest to contact a
spirit from very low in the elemental hierarchy for operations such as this.
Also, as in the everyday world, it is unwise to try to juggle too many of
these relationships at the same time. If you think "Hell hath no fury like that
of a woman scorned," think again. And sometimes jealousy really is a
green-eyed monster.
Finally, and most importantly, Never confuse your love for the
Divine with your love for the Elemental. The sexual "role" the magician
assumes when making love to the Goddess (or God) is diametrically
different than the "role" he or she plays when mating with an elemental
spirit. In the former, the magician's attitude is that of adoration and awe
and release is a gift from above, the result of ecstatic surrender. (To
assume that attitude with an elemental lover would be spiritual suicide.)
The sexual "role" the magician assumes with the elemental is one
of loving dominance. The Spirit surrenders to you. You bestow your
ecstasy as a gift and allow your elemental partner to share, through you,
the Divine love.
Confusing these two "loves" is surely the fountainhead of all the
ills sexual repression has visited upon mankind. If it is your Will to be a sex
magician, see to it that you use your magick to face and conquer your life,
not to hide from it.
108

Chapter Seven
Techniques Of Enochian Sex Magick
By Christopher S. Hyatt, Ph. D.
There is no evidence that the communicating Angels that delivered
the Enochian system to Dr. John Dee and Edward Kelly ever instructed
them concerning sexual applications of the art.
Biographers will be quick to point out the famous incident of April
1587 when, according to Kelly, the Angel Madimi suggested to Kelly that
he and Dr. Dee share their wives in common. (Dee was absent during this
communication). Enochian scholars argue that the text of this
communication contains many flaws that do not characterize other less
personal communications and that this may have been a case of magical
wishful thinking on Kelly's part. Nevertheless it seems they did indeed
swap wives and in spite of obvious attempts to erase the manuscript, the
record confirms this. It seems the only "magical" result of this "operation"
was the break up of Dee and Kelly as magical partners and the close of
one of the most remarkable chapters in magical history.
To those knowledgeable in the theory and techniques of Tantra,
the keys of the Enochian system open a treasure-house of practical
applications.
The exercises outlined below should be practiced only after you
have a thorough mastery of the system in all its non-sexual applications.
Any uncertainties on the part of the magician as to what he or she is doing
will destroy needed concentration and create a "break" which will absorb
the entire force of the operation. (In sexual workings that could be an
overabundant amount
109

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
of energy particularly if you perform the exercises in my Tantra book.)
EXPLORATION OF THE THIRTY ÆTHYRS
As written earlier in the text, the Thirty Æthyrs are the
"heavens" or Aires of the system. Starting with the 30th
Æthyrs and working to the 1st, the Magician explores only
as far as his or her personal level of Initiation will permit.
This process is comparable to "pathworkings" of the
Qabalistic system. In Enochian terms, the "Great Work" of
the magician is to master all 30 Æthyrs. (Starting with 30
and ending with 1) Experiences with the 30 Æthyrs are
highly personal and entirely unique to each magician.
Working with the Æthyrs can be a lifetime endeavor and it
is entirely presumptuous and inappropriate for another
individual to "guide" another in this area.
This personal aspect of the Æthyrs coupled with the simplicity of
its "one-Call-does-it-all" procedure makes it ideal for preliminary workings.
The great stumbling block to exploring the Æthyr is the difficulty one
encounters in "breaking through" to the next Æthyr. In the higher levels
this may be because the magician has reached his or her initiatory limit.
But in the lower Æthyrs it is more often the case that the magician simply
can't "let go" and refocus his or her attention to the section of the brain
where the vision is taking place. In Secrets of Western Tantra I provide an
entire array of exercises which will help the Magician "let go."
The following exercise is intended exclusively for workings of the
Thirty Æthyrs. There are two participants whom we will refer to as the
Magician and the Assistant. For our illustration the male participant is the
Magician and will recite the Call and "receive"
110

Enochian Sex Magick
the vision, the female participant is the Assistant and will eventually record
the vision. These gender roles are for illustration only. The Magician can
just as easily be female and the Assistant male. This particular operation is
equally effective for participants of the same sex and can also be adapted
for solitary workings. It makes absolutely no difference who is Magician
and who is Assistant. It is only important that the couple decide before the
operation commences.
Note: There must be no ambiguity about the willingness of either
participant to take part in an operation of this kind. If one participant has to
be coerced, begged or tricked into participation the vortex of ill-will that will
emanate from the offended party will insure not only the failure of the
operation but also the destruction of a more precious "magical asset", the
respect of another human being.
EXAMPLE:
The Magician wishes to explore the 30th Æthyr, TEX, and the
Assistant has expressed to him that it is her Will to participate in the
operation.
Both participants bathe and dress at first in simple, soft, white
garments. You may light incense, bum candles or use lights or soft music
to enhance the mood. Small amounts of alcohol are also useful.
Prepare the room in which you are working with the appropriate
symbols for the Æthyr such as the sigils of the Governors or the Elemental
Tablet from which they are taken. In the case of TEX it would be the Water
Tablet. (One couple I know has the Elemental Tablets and the Tablet of
Union constructed entirely of wooden pyramids which they painstakingly
have painted and lettered in Enochian. These are placed on the floor,
under their bed, prior to æthyric or elemental workings.)
111

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
Begin by performing the Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram
in the area in which you will be working. (The student is referred to the
Appendix section of this book for additional instructions.)
THE LESSER BANISHING RITUAL
OF THE PENTAGRAM
The Qabalistic Cross
facing east:
Touch your forehead and say Atoh (aah -
toh)
Touch your Heart and say Malkuth (mal -
kooth)
Touch your Right Shoulder and say Ve-
Geburah (veh - ghee - boo - rah)
Touch your Left Shoulder and say Ve-
Gedulah (veh • ghee - doo - lah)
Touch your Heart and say Le-Olam (lee -
oh - lum)
Point the symbolic dagger inward and say
Amen (aah - mayn).
Still facing east:
Trace the Banishing pentagram of Earth and
vibrate YHVH (yoad — hay — vaahv — hay), as you
thrust your symbolic dagger into the heart of the
pentagram.
With your arm still extended, turn to the South:
Trace the Banishing pentagram of Earth and
vibrate the name ADONAI (aah — doh — noy).
{Remember to thrust the symbolic dagger as you
vibrate each God name}.
With your arm still extended, turn to the West:
112

Enochian Sex Magick
Trace the Banishing pentagram of Earth and
vibrate the name EHIEH (eh — hayh — yay).
With your arm still extended, turn to the North:
Trace the Banishing pentagram of Earth and
vibrate the name AGLA (ah — guh — lah).
With your arm still extended return to the East,
completing the circle. Now Imagine yourself surrounded in
a Flaming Circle of four Pentagrams.
Stand straight with your arms out forming the
shape of a Cross:
Say:
Before me Raphael (rah - fay - ale)
Behind me Gabriel (gah - bree - ale)
At my right shoulder, Michael (mee-
khigh - ale)
At my left shoulder, Auriel (oh - ree -
ale)
Then Say:
Before me flames the Pentagram
Behind me shines the six-rayed Star.
Finish by repeating the Qabalistic Cross:
Touch your forehead and say Atoh
Touch your Heart and say Malkuth
Touch your Right Shoulder and say Ve-
Geburah
Touch your Left Shoulder and say Ve-
Gedulah
Touch your Heart and say Le-Olam
Point the symbolic dagger inward and say
Amen.
(See the Appendix for examples of the invoking and banishing
Pentagrams of all the Elements which
113

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
are used in Elemental Temple openings and invocations).
The Magician then recites the Call of the 30th Æthyr, TEX,
(Madariatza das perifa TEX... etc.) while the Assistant simply relaxes and
meditates upon the sounds of the Enochian Call.
When the Call is completed let the Magician slowly vibrate the
names of the Governors. (In the case of TEX there are four Governors. All
other Æthyrs have three.)
Then, (believe it or not), forget about the operation. Relax, take
your time and enjoy each other's company. Build slowly and naturally to
greater levels of arousal. Continue to do everything you can to sustain
your love making (At least 25 minutes, but for God's sake don't keep
looking at your watch!). The idea is to become joyfully and totally
exhausted. Then at the moment of orgasm (and not a split second before)
let the Magician remember the purpose of the operation (the Skrying of the
Æthyr) and repeat the first line of the Call; Madariatza das perifa TEX
cahisa micaolazoda saanire caosago od fifsa balzodizodarasa laida.
This may be done verbally or mentally but it must be well memorized so
that it can come forth effortlessly.
(Note: A tape recorder can be used for both repeating Calls and
taking notes. Sometimes two recorders are very handy, one for taking
notes and the other for playing Calls).
The Magician then falls exhausted and allows the flood of images
to wash through his brain. The temptation to fall asleep will be almost
irresistible and that is where the skill of the Assistant is most vital.
After a few quiet moments if the Magician is not relating his vision
to the Assistant she must take it upon herself to question him. This
requires a high
114

Enochian Sex Magick
degree of tact and subtlety for she does not want to disturb the vision and
yet she cannot allow him to fall into a deeper state of unconsciousness.
This takes practice. She should have a pad of paper and a pencil handy
and should write down everything that the Magician says. She should be
especially careful to correctly spell any unknown words or phrases and
she should not hesitate to ask the Magician (or the entity speaking through
the Magician) the correct spelling of Angelic words.
If the vision stalls and reaches a point where nothing further is
happening the Assistant can sometimes give it a push.
EXAMPLE
Magician: All I see is a bunch of trees. Nothing is happening.
Assistant: Try turning around. Do you see anything now?
Magician: Just more trees but there is a small pond in the middle.
Assistant: 'Walk over to the pond. Look in the pond and tell me
what you see.
Magician: At first I see only my own reflection but as I keep looking
I see that the pond is actually a bowl supported by the wings of four
Angels, etc.
If angels or other beings appear in the vision they must be tested
by repeating the names of the Governors one at a time. If the entity shows
discomfort at the name of any of the Governors dismiss it by continuing to
repeat the Governor's name until it disappears and a being appears that is
strengthened by hearing the names.
Do not be afraid of anything you "see" or "hear". Maintain an
attitude of good natured tolerance even if hideous sights or terrifying
beings or creatures appear.
115

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
Act like a dispassionate explorer. Fear is failure and the forerunner of
failure.
When it is clear that the vision is finished, or when it is obvious that
the Magician is now fatigued or ready to fall asleep it is time to end the
operation.
It is of the utmost importance that the Magician now "snap out of it"
for it is he who must banish and close the Temple. If the Magician is
reluctant to "wake up" and perform his duties it is the Assistant's
responsibility to see that he does. No effort should be spared to "break the
spell" and return the Magician to the objective world. Turn on the lights,
talk loudly, get a drink, or splash some water on your face.
Finally, he performs the Lesser Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram
and the Magician and the Assistant review the notes and transfer them to
the Magician's diary. The comments of the Assistant are often extremely
important and should not be omitted in the record.
Often the couple will wish to change roles and explore the same
Æthyr on a subsequent occasion. Allow at least one day between
operations.
ELEMENTAL OPERATIONS
AND CREATION OF THE MAGICKAL CHILD
Dr. Israel Regardie believed that certain sex magick techniques could
be used by advanced students to incarnate "spiritual" energies on the
physical plane, as well as making important shifts in the orientation of the
Psyche and the Universe. In other words, if these methods were used
properly, couples could bring into the world "divine" forces in the children
they generated, who could influence the future of the race.
In addition to creating "real children" these methods could be used to
create "bio-psycho-spiritual vessels", which would shift the focus of the
mind as well as develop new powers and abilities.
116

Enochian Sex Magick
The creation of the magickal child by ritualized sexual practices is
symbolic in one sense of the whirling forces of nature, mixing and
separating in their chaotic dance of creation.
This mixing and separating process is vividly displayed in the
Elemental Tablets and the Tablet of Union of the Enochian system.
Working with these basic forces of nature allows conscious co-operation
and co-creating with the cosmos, and the magician becomes a miniature
form of the cosmic process following its root law.
By willful and conscious co-operation the magician increases and
refines his energies, sacrificing himself or herself willingly to Nature
instead of being a passive food source in the spiritual food chain. The
realization that man's emotional, physical and sexual energies are food for
the "gods" can create great personal turmoil at first, however when one
begins to joyously participate in the spiritual feeding frenzy, one is
"elevated perpendicularly to infinity."
SELECTING THE MAGICKAL CHILD
THE ENOCHIAN METHOD
The selection process is the most difficult and, in truth, the most
magickal, aspect of the operation. The "soul searching" necessary for such
an important act is awesome and should not be embarked upon with a
frivolous attitude.
The Enochian adept (and no other should embark upon such project)
is intimately familiar with every area of the Elemental environment and
with his or her current initiatory position relative to the Thirty Æthyrs. By
reviewing his or her personal diaries of perhaps hundreds of non sexual
Enochian workings, the Magician can determine the areas of the system
that manifest the qualities which are desirable in the magickal child.
117

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
For the purpose of our illustration we will say that we wish create a
magickal child of purity and beauty. A child capable of reflecting and
transmitting energy and impressions without being affected. A child such
as this might be a great actor or politician because in this child others see
themselves reflected. This is charming and disarming to others because
when they look at the child they will see only what they want to see.
By checking the records of our previous evocations we see that
TDIM, the Kerub ruling the Water Subangle of Water is the perfect Spirit
to manifest in such a child.
The technique as outlined below has been adapted from the exercise
The Orgastic Circulation of Light and is an excellent example of Tantric
Enochian evocation.
In Dr. Regardie's copy of Wilhelm's Secret Of The Golden Flower,
3rd impression, 1935, there are a number of passages underlined. Dr.
Regardie was not a habitual underliner, thus we may assume that when he
did underline it was for a very good reason. One of the passages which he
underlined more than once contained references to the circulation of light.
In the next method, the proper circulation of light is essential for true
magickal effects to occur and has been modified for use in creating the
magickal child. It is urged that the partners should practice the ritual many
times prior to including the sexual aspects. As a rule it is wise to practice
this together holding hands or touching in some fashion.
At the time determined most auspicious for the conception of the
magickal child the Temple is made ready. Banished, Cleansed and
Consecrated.
The Temple is then opened in the Grade of 3° = 8° as outlined in
Chanokh and the two participants recite a
118

Enochian Sex Magick
brief Oath declaring their intention to perform this creative act.
PART I
THE GREAT WHIRLINGS
The male should be on his back and the female should sit on top of
him. Move only when instructed, unless the penis begins to lose its
stiffness.
Begin by imagining a scintillating white light about the size of a small
basketball forming above the head and piercing the top of the skull. This is
called the Kether point. Now vibrate the Three Holy Names of God (from
the Water Tablet). MPH ARSL GAIOL as the sphere of Light grows
brighter and more energetic. Do this for five minutes.
On the last six vibrations of MPH ARSL GAIOL the female should
move on each sound of the Names.
As the force of this whirling ball of power becomes exceedingly real
for you and your partner, allow the energy to descend slowly through the
head. Allow it to rest in the throat or Da'ath point. Here imagine a lavender
color. Vibrate the Name of the Great Elemental King of Water,
RAAGIOSL until the energy becomes exceedingly real for you and your
partner.
Again on the last six vibrations of RAAGIOSL the female should
move six times.
Bring the energy down through the chest until it rests at the Heart or
Tiphareth. Vibrate the Names of the six Seniors of the Water Tablet,
SAIINOV, SOAIZNT, LAOAZRP, LIGDISA, SLGAIOL,
LSRAHPM. The color of light should be golden yellow growing brighter
and clearer as you vibrate each Name.
119

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
On the six last vibrations of the names of the Seniors the female
should move six times.
Move the power through the diaphragm and abdominal region to the
pelvis (Yesod), and vibrate the Divine Names of the Calvary Cross, Water
of Water, NELAPR, OMEBB visualizing a sphere of deep purple.
Here on the last ten vibrations of NELAPR and OMEBB the male
should move ten times very slowly.
Finally, allow the energy to descend through the legs until it
formulates at Malkuth, the feet. Both participants vibrate the name of the
Kerub, the Name of their magickal child TDIM visualizing a black sphere.
The male should again move ten times quickly on the final vibrations
of the Child's name.
Now, draw the energy up from the Black light of Malkuth changing
colors as described above as it ascends to Kether. When the light reaches
Kether concentrate on the White brilliance of this region.
When the light is at Kether and your movements are complete,
meditate silently for a few moments and then begin the circulation of white
light.
Note: At times Dr. Regardie ignored the different colors of the
Spheres and simply used the white scintillating light of Kether for each of
the points. However, he and I agreed that the colored system is better
suited for the practice of Sex Magick.
PART II
THE ORGASTIC CIRCULATION OF LIGHT
Circulate the energy of the the White Light as follows:
120

Enochian Sex Magick
Allow it to descend downward and outward via the left side of the
body during every exhalation. When it reaches the left foot, transfer the
energy over to the right foot and allow it to ascend the right side of the
body on the inhalation. This should be done at least 10 times. The partners
should move slowly in unison 10 times.
The second circulation of energy begins in Kether and travels down
the front of the body on the exhalation and then up the back of the body on
the inhalation. This should be done at least ten times as well. The partners
should move slowly in unison ten times.
The third circulation, beginning with Kether follows down through
the body on the exhalation until it reaches Malkuth. The energy is drawn
up through the body to Kether on the inhalation. When it reaches the
Crown, imagine it to discharge like water from a fountain, at the end of
each inhalation. The fire and sparks of this scintillating fountaining go up
and out through the Crown and then descend down and encompasses the
body on the exhalation. After the final circulation has been completed and
the fountaining maintained for a few movements, the couple should begin
moving and breathing heavily as they surround themselves with sparkling
light. The .movements should then become spontaneous and at the moment
of orgasm the light should be gathered and thrust beyond Sahasrara,
toward the Chakra with No Name.
PART III
THE CRYSTALLIZATION OF THE LIGHT
The orgastic Light of the Chakra of No Name may be likened to the
Philosopher's Stone, The Golden Flower, or the Lotus. It is a body of light
created by the process of transmutation of spiritual-sexual energy
121

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
and is the womb of the magickal child. This is an experiential realization,
thus, the proof of the pudding is in the Doing and Creating.
The process of transmutation requires the proper balance and mixing
of heat and cold, passive and active, and white and black. In a broader
sense we are using tremendous active forces to create a non-active force.
The nurturing we provide the womb-child through our practices creates a
worthy resting place of deep silence for the aspirants involved in the
creation process.
The circulating of orgastic light is no doubt one of the most beautiful
secrets of the Great Work. As the light circulates again and again and your
practices become more powerful and refined, a crystallization occurs and
you begin to form the magickal child. Whether you choose it to be
physical or spiritual or both, the creation of this spirit body allows you to
have contact with the forces of the higher Spiritual Body. You have not
only opened the doors of perception, but can now begin the process of real
action in a way unknown to those who lack this initiation.
122

Chapter 'E ight
The Enochian Dictionary
,
wO RO S
'"	Aoi ( AAo J
Aoiom
Aolo
A" . i. on in
Ab il. (A p i). J
Abo.p, ;
...10,.....
A" , .nt
AC A M
Ad El
Ad n.
...d ohi
Ad oion
Adp h .h l
"'d 'o 'h
Ad ,p on
A<
A ff.
"At lo
AI. ,
Ald i
Ald on
..1.110'
,.Amip ,1
Ami' om
Ami.
Am m.
An .nu l
An. I. "
PHO NETI C
(A h· . hfO
jA h·. h· ,,)
(A h· . h·•• ·o h m.
(... 10· . 10· 1. 10 )
IA h· b .h · .. ·. o h·o • • · ooo\
(Ah· b• • ·l. b)
IA h.bo b.• h-p· y· ' '' \
(...10·10 •• 10 · .10·" .· .. 10 •
(A h. lo.. h .no o· C")
(A h -koh m)
(Ah.d .h · C.. · ,· , 1
(Ah· d oh· n. b\
IA h-do h·h• • )
(Ah· do h· .. · .h .no o )
(Ah.d . h.p. , .b. h·" yl
(Ah.d . h·. ohk·b .y\
( Ab·d oh·,.· pohn· noo .
(A h.d O
l Ab •• ff.lo b )
l Ah· C·' \
IAh · Cloh•
l Ab·l . h ,\
(A h· . I·d .. )
l Ah •• I·d oh· noo i
(A h. <I·I. h , )
(A b •• m)
(Ab· m .. ·p. ' ·' o. d · •• •
(Ab· m 	hm )
(A h· m 	\
(Ab •• m.m oh )
(A h· n. h· n. h· .I.
(A h. ... , . '. hb .
123
E NGLIS H
Amon t "
Am o n t·'
Amon c·' ...
PI. cod yo ..
$ Ioo pinc O .. co n
Li .. 'h r 	..
I..,, h. m 	you
t' , o . ; d. d
1 h i" p '.por .d
1.6.9.9
".	Ob. d i. n«
Kin cdo m
r.,.
Un.puko bl.
O li• • Moun,
C.,l do .. n
Nin. ' .. n
Emply
Non • . No
In Thy
H • •• •• 1
0 1 t . ' h. ' i n,
C . l h .. up , G I.d
Bind up
B' lin nlnl
I f"'. n<d
," ou nolo ..
,..C" ,.. d
5 . , .. , Wi. d om
In , o .. , nm. nl

'E noch ian 'WorU of .:>.(,ister Crowuy
A ",d • •d
Aohtat
A.
A.
lA rl T.ba~
A.N
A.
ASP
A l pl
..,
Al ,u h
""udu '
Auuto
A ..voJ.
,h i",.
AI'.,ier
Al illor
Alith
CAb-nu-C........h. -4. h)
( 4Jt.o h _- • • ,- III-.,)
( AI>- .. ,I
IAlo- r.J)
( TIll- ba M)
(A lt-n h. nool
I A h_1
l Ah __ pI Y)
I Ab+n.- pa , - ll y)
(A b- II,- hly)
lA h· t·f - r. h-a hl
(Ah· nh -dah-k ahl )
(A h·n h· ... h· ..oh)
( AIl-u h- vo ll_)
( A Il· ye t- n t t )
IA b••o.d~t-- .h-ln ·.J r)
IAh -IOld -u-lh " o.d- oh .)
( A II"oad _ a,.
B
His T hou Ch11
SUn
To V . ......
Thll lin o rder'
Thai CO Vert
2nd Adb ,.
W..
1111 A t lh 'f
Bdo.t
Works
You r Cl rdl es
Mercury
Thund tn of ;netuM
His pomp
Millsl On"
H_,.,ftC
Lih nt u
Wbow IIand .
Ilb l Ct In)
I .bs lo n l d)
l u ou ib
BAG
BIC h i,
Babl' (r)
B.b .1
Ball i
B. 1l (In)
Baltlm
81 110b
B. llob.
Bal,.
BalUfl
aal-dun
Ba.. .
BI . , im
Bum (tIo)
B'. (II
Blab
( B. b-b. b-CIY) 	So ut h
( 81 h- ba h- lo h n) 	Wiocktd l h• •lo ' )
( Ba h-a,-oh- ..ccb) 	Ric htcou ....no
(Ba h-cu) 	2lllb ACl h, r
(Ba h-cu·-h.e--a,) 	Fu r,
(Bah-b a,- Ia,) 	F o' _ 8.eauoc, For Wh, !
(Ba"_ha h_lah) 	Cried 10udl,
IBa h- l.tl) 	T h. J ust
(Bah_la, -Ia,) 	Jusl ie.
(Ba h- Ia,- I• • m) 	[ . trem. J u.l lu
( B. h-l .,- Ioh ) 	Th. RIChttou.
(B.h-I.,-Ioh- h. h) 	Fo r my 0"' '' riChltous"no
(S . h-iH- .y) 	S i lt
(Bah..J.y-lo.d-. r-creJ 	SIc_lids. P,tsld.,,"
(B. II_la, 10.d_lo.d _..... ) Judl.mml
(S.hm-ru) 	Lrt: t hem fOfltl
(B.M-Ittm) 	Da,
( B . h_l..,.d ~m) 	Mld-d.,
1Brr-.b) 	Vole ..
fBrr- . h) 	S I. "
124

'Enachian S"t :Magid..
Bi,,,
BiCli.d
Bl.n l
Blior
Bli M'
Blion l
BI;"'"
BoCP'
Bolp
Bo o. pi.
Brl mC
BtIJ\l C
Bt Co..
Br in
Brinl
Do'"
Buwtir
Bulmon
Bulmon i
C
C••
C. e at om
C.eoeup
C.r. fm
C. ll
C. m(p ilo )
C. mlln
C.n.1
C,o'C (0)
C. pim. on
C. pimi•• li
C. rbaf
C. n (Co n)
Cu . t nl
C. W1rm.n
C...nnc
C' ph
Oirl.n
( B, t- " ' nu '
( B« C-I.......t1-d· t1 1
(BI. h. noo· . ·.. )
( B I ,~ t1 rl
( BI., -otl-r.t11
(BI". otl....tIl )
(B I'~ t1-tl y- e5.)
IBoh·C't- p·tt)
(Bo h-l. h-p. y)
(Boh-oh-pt e5)
( 8.y · r.y-m"..cu )
( B. y-, .y- n•• ,-ce')
(Ba ,·rl h·Coh... h)
(B. y-t"n )
tB ly ·tUn-l lY)
(Boos-dah)
( Boos-d' t- r. , )
( Bool..I.y.mo hn)
( Boot ..,.'-moh -.... )
C
( K. h)
( K. h-b., )
( K. h-" h-cohm)
( K. h. ltoh-c. h...p. , )
(K. h-fl h-rahm)
(K . h-ll h-I o. d)
(K .h ·,m )
(K .h -'m- I• •·. tIl )
( K. h. n. h-l. h)
( K. h-o h-tn·c u)
( K. h- p""m .h -oh-nu )
( K.h·p«-m" I h.lo,)
(K.b- ray-b . hn
( K. b-n u )
( K. IHa h- tly m)
( K. IHa Io-n,· .. ... u)
(K . IHa .....y ~ "' )
(K ., ..p. ,-h. , )
( K. h_""",, tly oblb-nu)
125
M y . oko
In ou r , om(orter
Harbou ....
Conlinu. l oo... rorter .
Comfort
Sh. ll comfort
OUt eomforl
Reicn "h
B. lho u
t tl h.. . .. . e lhem
Art p tepaud
Guatd
S lu p
H ...
HUI
Glor y
Glot,
Hi. moulh h llh o ~ n . "
Thtit 11I0<.111>1
Unlo . wilh
...Flo llri. h
Anolher while
Th.; r abid inl
Th . firm.m ' nl
While
S p. ke
Wo rkmen
T h, E.n h
Num...... of Ti m.
S ueeessiu l,
Sink
Such
To Wllom
U nd rr ..hoM
To Wh_
Tille of (' 1
Rejoinlh

Enochian 'WorU of 51feister Crow l£y
0;, lo r Chris)
OiMl , ...
0 ..
CH.
a.,
Clao..!
Cldo
a.
Cnil.
C. OI;O'
C ocub
Colis
Co lI, 1
Co mml tl
Como
Co m.., lh
e on isb r.
C . ~
Co p hl n
Cw
C<Wno
Cor d iri .
Cor mp
Co, mp
Co. mpl
Crete
Cri-m'
C' c-oda ;
C· rp (eri p)
o tDi."
O.
OlmplOI
OAOX
oa,,"
D ARC
Om
Oa n.ar
l X. h- h",")
( Xo "' hHs-d a h-o hl
( Xt h-bo_ 	h)
(K. y·h. ' ..... ')
( Kn ... h-I lb )
I K u- . h....lH.H )
(Kn-t-h -II , )
( 1( .....1. 1'1 )
( K u_ nu_la h )
( Kob.., h-Ioad -n -oh. )
( Ko h_ta h_sn_ b,,)
(Ko b-lccs)
( Ko h- II,- lahl)
( Ko h m- m.h)
(Kob -moh) 1
IKoh m-uy- l.y- ha,'
IKah-nees-bl y· rah)
t Ko h lHSNI , )
tK ob-p. , -hah-a u)
( Ko b- nl)
( Koh-. , b..>; -oh )
( K oh-r. ,-d u -I old -ft'-Io ld l
( Koh- ", ........P·1 )
I Ko h- r 'J~ "" p ' J I
(K Oh-f. , -t m-p .,- II,'
( Klh-ny ,bh . r. y_. «)
(X ah-. " mu)
{Ko h-ro b ob-d ah 10ld - tel
(K ' h M-p.,)
o
( 01 1'1 )
( 01 1'1)
IOI h-mlt'- p.,4o h-lOIId)
IOth-o h- _)
IO a b.n,- bah-cu)
tOa h -u'-C ft )
(D . .... . , ..... ,)
(D. h-ra,_ h .)
126
A..
D ia", onds
ShaD be
2Ot~ At1h ,r
9, 9. 9 ••
Terror
M, 'lni" or Crn do n
4, 5, • .
.....In en a H
Ti me
Ma klnc
Sto nn
Bindet h, t, u snd lOCe1h.,
A .. indo ..
A circle
Th. wor. of m. n
Thu ndm
Lame ntali on
Nu ...ber
ThUM m o f j ud C. "' .... t
Reason.ble en , tu r" of
"r1~, "' ....
Num 	...
Halil ,eI numb ... d
Be n umbered
Vnlil
Pr a i'"
The 2n d Bec inn; nc
B"
Tbir d
The. e
Va ri.l,
5. ' . 7. I
0 ,,",
' . 7. l, 9
F hil_p h..', Slone
Wh .. ef ore

'Erw cli ian So;. 'MO!J id :..
On
O ••is
D.
OED
DES
0' .Dldod
Dlu ll (0 1" ,,)
Dlu llm
DIll "
0.
D oalim
Dobi.
Dodp.'
0 ....
DoclHh
D ooli .. (or pi
D~
OMp h.
Dorph ••
D o-il
Dril '" ( II
O,h
Or olll
0.
O u';''' (Du;~)
Drull
,,.......Ed-n ..
t r
EI_r'I'
n
Elra p
,_
' mod
(Oa hlt '
tO a h.ro d nos)
(Diy '
(0 11-0 111
10,,","')
l o u .u hl
l Ol h-lah-roh· d lll '
l o . h-I 	II)
( O. h· I 	I·hm )
( O. h-II I ·h. '
( Do h)
( Oo h- a h- lft ml
( Do h- bt n)
( Do h.d a. pa h-..tl
(Doh-.b"",
(Doh-d 	' ·u JI
100 	"_1100)
l°oh-nool
( Dolt-' I, -p.,- ", h)
{Do h-n ,- p.,- hl hll
(Doh_ I ....)
( O. h- 	I.h -'.h )
(0 	'
(Ol. roh -b h- noo)
(Oah-n'l
(Doo-n-"I,)
(0. 11- ........ 001
E
jAr)
f "1 -lIahl
(A , -ka h-rob- nool
(A, -IIII'I Na h-.n)
lAy-dO
lA,- r, h.r' ''-111)
lA, . ll h)
IA , _I_h_l oad_l h_, . , )
(AJ . m....'
(A y-mo h-dl h)
127
Lo llIS
Th ,i. Hud s
Of
7111 A,lh y,
26t h Art h, .
Ant i.
Sulp hu r
Gi";" 1
Gi.., ..
C. .... them
,.Sin
Fall
l..d I h ~.. wu
Yui lle
Y'U rioll
H is lIaIM
T it~ of ~Iff [ II I
Hu~ Iool..·d a boul 1M
t oolline orilh cl ad,,","
Ni e hl
G l til l
Brine dO_ II
A "
W bo . lhat or _hil: h
111 10 Ih , lhi l d ane l,
T il l, o f ~ l ...
I
Th...do, ~
P , aiw
RK eh , n
Visif ""
Viah
Th, same
c~~
Nine
S. 1, ' . )

'E nocli ian 'WorW of.!'!feister Crowfey
Em el li s
E mn.
En. y
E on
Eran
E,m
E.
Esln ch
Elha ml
Etha .. 1
F (. Iso EF)
FI- a-ip
F .bo . n
Fl f. h
Fafen
Fam
h o d
FIO Rts
FIO' I'
Flr ll
Funll
Flu
F it. l.
Fin ,
C
CA
C.,C. l
G-ehi'-C e
C.
C.d
Cit-lad
Ceob or••
C"
jAy- may.I·Y-IU')
t A r -met- n.h)
t Ar- nlh-n )
fAy-o ll-ray-ns '
( Ay-ra ll-no ol
(Ay-ray- mu )
jAy·tu )
(Ay- •• • -.r-us-ch.)
(A y-t. y-h .h -me-' Q.d j
jAy- I. , -hlh- , . y-Io.d· eel
F
(Ern
(F .h . h •• - p. y)
,Fa h-b ob-.h-n oo)
(F lb-b y-b . y)
(Fl h-ray -n oo )
(Fa h-m•• )
{Fl h-o ll-da hl
( F . h -o h -n u -Iay -css )
(Fah-ohr- I u - l. y)
(F .b -ra y-c u- l. ,)
(F .h- ray -m ..·..l o. d l
(F ahl · ns J
(F. ,...r. h- l.h ' "O.d)
(F. ,... te ,... " ,)
G
(C oo)
( Gah)
(Gah _h. y)
(Gah-I. h)
(Coo K. h- h.,...", I.Y)
(Coo,
(Gly -d. b)
(G.y £e-.h·d.h)
( G.y-o h-b. h- f.h-l.h)
(Gay - r.y)
128
Su i
H erein
Ttle I.or d
Tho usand
6332 (6321)
'"	Fo urt h
B ro lh~n
Are con.~ d
Puee
Visil
You. voiu,
Po i. on
I n t ~nl
Your t. ain
Till ~ of S
Th e B ~ tinni n l
D flli nl ( v ~ r b )
D fl1inl pi au
Th ei. d .... elli nl pla e ~ .
Ye lifted up Jo ur vo ie ",
1336
we ed ou l
Eue ul~
(Wilh)
"	Sp irit,
Ti l le of D
Are 001 lhe
I. nol
TlI le of G
Our Lord and Masl~r
Grul Wo rk
'nee of Q

'Enachian. Sac 'Mag id(
G1 lipah
Gi...
GM
Gll Yu
Gnay
G" " u b
Gnonp
Gohe 1M Go ho)
Co hia
C ohol
Coh olol
Co hullm
Co hu,
C• •
C ono
e ~.
C. n
C. n
Gn pb
C._ I>
Ha mi
Hs·C
Hoalh
H oido
H.....
H. m
Homil
Homin
Hllba.!
Huba ,
Huba ."
(C n · lu..pah-ha y)
(Gn-,a h)
(G n .~e,)
(Gn .roa d"u "ah-,o ad)
(C,",. na h~ ' 1
(Ce~ n ay, uh.. h.l>ay)
(Ce~noll- n u- p aYJ
(Go h-hay)
(Co h..h _ah )
(Go h-ho h-, I)
(Co h· hoh· loh ,)
(G oh-hoo- In ml
(Co h·hoos)
(Co h. nool
(Co h-nohl
tCo h-u h..,.hl
(C_ 	ah-ahl
jC_ rah..ah )
j C __ h_pa , _tt.YI
CC_ 	oll -ns- bay)
H
CHab-mn )
CHah-" ,. cn ,
CHoh-s b. ta, -ha , )
CHoh-la h-4olt)
CHoh-iah Koh )
CHoh-mn )
( Hoh· me....!)
C Ho h- m e ~ nool
( Hoo- b ah-fl)
( Hoo- bab- ra,)
( Hoo- ba l\.n , odah)
(h )
( [~ a h-4 a h)
( [ ~ a h od a h. na h- h a, )
129
Li ~inl Bru lh
Til le or T
Sno nce<
~li Chl y Earthquakes
Doth
Your Go urn menu
) ca. ni, hed
Sait b
We ... y
S a,i nc
ue lip
II is .. id
) ~,
Tit l. or I
Failh
S"a nCe<
~l oon
~ta,q """
T ill. or E
Bilt... Stinc
C,ealu' n
Ha lh planl H
Tru. Won hippe'
C .o an. d aloud
M ....u,. I" (ed)
Li~01 h
T.ue "In
"-	Lanl .. ...
Eoe. buminC lam ps
Li.i nC la mps

En och ian 'Wo rUf Of Jl{eis ter Crowuy
l ad namad
l adpil
laiad ix
la·ial
hid a
h ido n
1.1
h lpirgah
h lpon
h lpor
hod (00
hrr y
Ie H
1d
Idoigo
10 '
h huso!
Iis onon
",Ilsi
Im-..a-ma.
In si
,.,
loi ad
'p
Ip. m
Ip. mis
Ipur. n
Yolcam
Yolci
V. ,
Yrpoil
I· ei!
10.0
h omu ip
In '!aI
h il op
( Ee-. h· dah-nah-ma h·da hI
(Ee· . h-da h· p.e·d)
( E._a h...... h_den l
(£e ·. h e.·. h•• l)
(£e. ah... -d ahl
(E e·. h-.. ·do h· noo)
(E .·a h•• l)
(£e ·. h-d -pee·•• ~·C . h)
( F-••• h·. l·p oh-noo)
( E..... h -.l -po h·· . yl
(E. -ah·o h.da hl
( £e ·oh ·r. y-reel
(E .· ka h · h a ~)
( E.-d. hl
(E. -duh· .. ·go h)
( E.-. y..ha y)
( Ee-. y-hoo-.oh- zoad )
(E. -. ....so h·noh.noo)
(Ee- d- e. s)
(Ee-el-• •• )
(E .· m• • n h mah _•• y)
( E. -noo-s• • )
( fe ·oh-d. hl
( E .- oh-.. · oh·dah)
(E e·p. y)
( E p.h -m• • )
(E p.h·m . ... )
( E. ·poo- rah·n oo)
( E. ·oh _ol·kah ·m .. )
(E oh -. l-k .. )
( E oh· r.y)
( E. ·or-poh- • • -I. h)
( E...... · Ce ....l•h )
(E. -e n-ro h)
(E....l -oh-mo h l- .....pay )
(E. ·lO .d · .h 10.d ·. h ·l o.d)
(E. ·!o . d· . ....lo .d ·o h·p .y )
130
The und.fiIed kno .. l. d ge
!l im
Hon ou.
Concl ude us
T h. highe. t, most high
.... ll-po .. . ' ful
Bur ning
Flame. of first glory
Burn
Fla ming
Beginning
P.ov id .n «
11th .... . I h ~ r
.... I>.·ay.
Him Ihal S in. lh
on Ih. Holy Thro n.
'"	lIi s m. rcies
Br. nch••
o T hoo
Th ee
.... pply yo" ,.. l..es
Walk ..t
Hi m
!lim t hai livelh for. ...r
N ••
B·c inningl...
Endl• ••
S h. lI no t ...
Brine fort h
BrinC. t h forth
R oll
Di..ision
Ho .. m. ny
Promi••
Lot her b. kno .. n
Hu e f,. med ""ilhin
From Ihe hiehesl .. .... ls

'Enocliian se« 9.fagU;K..
I.
I.
L (0) ,.)
1..I.d
..,
L'''e
I. ..
LEA
r.e ,
l. ui lt1mong
tiL
U m l. 1
LIN
LIT
LO E
Loho lo (50bo lol
Lo'fit.
LOM ho
Lo n-doh
Lo n.. tL OMh i)
Eom>
Lomh in
L~",
L....t
Lrine
I..
Lu ca l
Lu( i f!i . n
L udfli u
L u.i. -he
Lulo
L Ul d (. n)
LII. d.
Lu....;
Musi
M.d
~ hdrid
t b bl
( L . h)
t L . h-ff- . h-d. h)
l La h-pay,
tub-nh-Cu)
(u ll-" "
( La ll -. y-. h )
( L . ~-I' hl
( I..,u- lha -mo n-c u)
( I.ee-Iall)
(l u -.m-Ja h-I. h)
( Lu -noo)
tLee -l .y)
(lo h-.y)
( Loh-ho h-loh)
(Lo h-l. h-k tt-,n)
(Lo h. n u -kah . hoh l
( Loh-noo dohI
loh-noo-u h)
tLoh- noo-n .-h.y)
( Lob- noo-n • • hu _noo )
tlo h- '.Y-fl' II kohl
( EI- r. h-ns-do hl
([I- .n-IIu-C tt )
( Loo)
, Loo- k. b-lab)
I Loo-ku - d(-l u _. h·nuI
t Loo-ku·d f- ttt-. h-....I )
( Loo ft -, h h. yl
( 1.0 0- 10 11)
, Loo-no-d. tll
( L oo- .... -d. hl
(loo-"s·dtt)
M
(M. b·. h_ 1
I M . h.... b)
( M. h-d.h-rtH. hl
131
T h e fif'll
Tilt lirst Ont
The SfU~' of Truth
,.,
:"i, il ll"
Rich
'61 11 At lh) ,
T ht .. mt
T ht B.. . IS or l ht Fit ld
lsI Atl h ).
His Tru ' urt
12nd At Thy'
Slh At lh),
l2Ih At lh) ,
S hint lh
Buck ltrs
Fa ll
Kincd orm
Po ' u,
In po," tr tu l't d
Th eir po " tn
FIo .~
To d il. po«
To ,Ii, u p
;";01 or nO'
T ht No ,t h
Orn. mtnlS or b. ichlnt ..
Bright n n,
A So ng or Hon ou.
T. rt ., or Wlnt
'U'	T ht ir rt t l
l't y ft t l
L. id up
Tht "mt 10u , Cod
Iniqlrilin

'Enochian 'Wo rU of % eister Crow fe y
M ••• I. ..
M. lp i' ei
M.lp. ,
M.II
M• • in
M.-of·r. t
M.pm
M • •h
Mllo.h
MAl
M.,M I.m
MI. n
MIc.lp
M I.,.ll o
1'01 1.,.011
M"'.MiinOtle
Mi.
M in
( .) M na.
Mol. p
Mol"l
M• •
Mo m .o
M om ••
Mon ..et
Monons
Mo o.h
Mospl t h
M ••
N.
1"1 ..... 1..
N. aa-e-et
N. nb.
N . pt a
l M. d-d. h-n 	_.h l
( M. h- ..h- pt 	-' n)
( M. h· ..b-pt ·· -en )
(M. h-l. b...."t)
(M. b-a ll-a u)
( M. h ohll tah t )
( M. It-p. y-m •• )
( M. h· . b· bay)
(M. h-loh- • • -b. y)
( M.h·l oul)
(M.y-d . h)
(M 	h-mtt )
l Mt 	h-nu )
( M tt- k. h-. l-p ., )
( M tt ·k.h •• I'l o.d · oh )
( M. ....kl b-o h-t l-I o. d)
( M_ kl Jt.m. h)
( M_ nob-· h-e n)
(M _ •• ,.
(M _ •• ·h h)
( M ......na h-d.h )
( Mo h-b h-p .y)
( Mo h- "b-u t )
( Moh-m tt )
( Mo h- m. h-o b.
(Mo h-m . h- •• y)
tMoh.n.h ...."s.k tt )
( Mo h· noh· noo- ... )
(Moh-oh- .h-b.h)
(Mo h ·nt·p. y·l.y·h . y)
(M oh-Io.d)
N
(N' h)
(Nab H. b-II ' ..... , )
(N alt-nall . , . , -lab)
( N a lt-~ b . h)
(N. ....p. Il-. ,_)
132
o v. Un . . ....
Fi ns of li ft I< hocn . ...
Ih ,o ueb-l h, ul li ne nn
(0 . Fi." 	D .ns)
Titlt o f P
In Ih Mind
1"1 01 10 b' m n. ur ••
9639
A"o rdin c
[cho;n l
6lh A"II ,r
Til l. o f 0
Cont; nu. ncr
3663
!'-fi chlirr
In Po.. ..
MiChl,
B. bold
Co, n, ..
A l orn nl
U ...
Ano_htl'
~frfl
Su 'e"
M <K!f
Tht C, o .. ns
S h. lI h, e .o .. n, d
T h' Gn ._ N. me
Hn .1
It rrprnltlh me
Til, H o. ns
,.,
._.Till' of H
1'01 , Po ..tI'
T .....
Ob ,_ ..... d.

'Enocliian S"C Magid:.
N.pl.
N ....nh
N.,...bb
~ .. ps
N.lub
NI
NIA
Nibm
Nid. li
Niis
Nii. o
No. ln
No. n (No • • )
(I) No ••
Nou mi
Nob loh
N~.
N ~'"
Noib
N OlI iC
Non..
NOlIn ( t)
Noncp
Noqllocl i
Ir} Noqllol
N.,
No .om i
Nor- mol .p
Nor-q ll ••• hi
NOfl
NOlha .
o
o
Odo
O. driu
0 .1i
O .n io
O.
( ~ . h - p . ,- I . hl
IN 	d-.h lh .
l :-; 	z o.d-.h- .. h- ba,- ba,)
'N 	d-p . ~ -n. )
( N.,- t 	h. b.' )
(N ",
( N , ~ . h l
( N . ~ b . h - m ..l
(N,MI. h-I•• )
( N ..· . ~ ' ss )
( N . ~ ..-.o hl
fNo h·ah-l.h -nool
(N oh·ah·noo)
(Noh-l h- r' Y)
(N oh-I h-n. .-m • • 1
( !'ri oh-b. y-Ioh)
(Noh-kohl
(Noh-Ir.o h-d. h)
(No h - .~ bay)
(Noh- m"'c rrl
INoh-noo- lr.ahl
INoh-noo- lr.,,)
l Nolt-noo-lr.ah-p.,)
( Noh-Ir.oo-oh·d .. )
(No h-koo- o h-l. h j
(Noh·r ., 1
(Noh-ro h_m•• )
(No h- r.y moh-l. h- p. , )
(Noh-rl y ko o-. h -lIh . h..j
(Noh·l ay-zol d)
(N oh·l. y· hoh· l h)
o
(O h)
(0 ")
(O h-I h-do ")
(O 	b-d. h-r_. h:l)
(0 	1.. '
(Ob- 	rr-o ..)
(Ob-ba"
133
T.. o , de' ' .o rda
P illl " of cl ldnesa
H,acinlhi ... Pill. "
S.ord or [a rh
Go .. r nm....1
"Hlh A, 'h "
S. uon
MiChl' So und.
Co m, V.
Com. A .. . y
:\Oil , fb. )
Yo ar . beco m.
Brrom,
L.l l h. m bec om,
Th. Pl lm s
S, r~.nl
Th y ... run lS
y .. l
E..n
UnlO You
o You I,.)
Fo.r You
T hri l Minis" "
o Vo S.u.n l,
Son.
o V, So ns!
Sons or Mon
V. Sons or pl ... " ..
Six
In t ho mid sl (?)
s
..W ..
Lo 	H ," ~ .n.
I h .. e pl.r . d
MOm, nl
"

'Eno ch ian WorU of.'iIfeister Crowuy
OlHllso n,
Ob loe
Qbo lell
O' u
Od
Od.
Od.
O.
0 ..
O.~
Ob on a.
0;
o;.d
Ol . p
Ot
0'
0 1,,,,
0''''	IOIIora. 0 11011
0'.Dlp irt
O.
0_.Oma (P.
0_.O~
O""on t
OOle
0,
Or od l (a'
Om
O.
Onco.
Onu
On ha l0nha,
On '
00
Dlbil
O.ell o
Orof
O"o ln
tO h- bah -!H-Io h- nOO-I"'
(O h- b., · loh• ... " )
tO h-boh-II, -blyl
lOh -b "la,4 - lh )
10 h-dab)
(0 10 ..1010)
IOlHlah-l oad_1
(0 10 · ,,1
(D b "obi
(O h-I>«-o lll
(Oh-ho-nIy-lahl
( O h_)
, O b-n- . h-dahl
COh-H-ah-p'rJ
(Ob-Iahl
(O ll-lah)
(O h-1 	"" . )
(O h-I 	' )
(O b -l, h- lob·.,.Il)
t°h-la h-noo)
( Oh.l, h-P"" , .y .ca , I
(O h· m ....
l ° b-ml ll, ' '' oftl)
IOh-.... hl
( O ll- m l h .,
(Oh-o ll-I h)
( Ob-o ll-ah-o h-n.ahl
( Ok h·C ·y)
(Oll- p.,)
(Oll-ro b-kah- b' "
(Ob- , .,.. ....,
(0 11- "'''$$)
(Oh. r.' 	·kob·'.')
IO h-'.' 	tall j
(D h-r .' -es s-h.h)
lO b-ray-t hl '
(O h-flS)
IDh ·l. J.h ......I .b)
t Oh- ro h-kah- lloh j
lOb-ro h," rn
(O h-yo h·a h·• •-nl'
134
P lu .. ,, ' dc li ren"
A Ga .l a nd
y ou r C a r m~ lIl$
H i lf
A .d
01"'11 o r 0l"'" nt
Bec illllillC
SillC (i IlC)
Bo'
W_
I m lde a La.. . O uk"
T hil tor t hai is)
JIW IK Cod
Tk ", m~
24tb part
I ...&d~ JOU (I haH made )
T.. o Timn
~la ll
Same
M a d~
U Cht
Kno .. IK Ulld en talld
Their Na m"
U "dtn ti lldi n c
Kn o"nt
Tbei r
Eyes, ri<ible ap l"' ara nn
C ha mbe r
"U nder yO<l tbe nul h)
BlrU II Stone
(...ilh dar knns)
Or ' n ....
Buildin c
Dru llkell
Title of F
T "' e1 ~e
I hue set
Let it CO llfo u nd
M a , be macnififll
T h~ C~ nt n

'Eno chiun. Sac Masie r;.
o.
O ~U
Oxia yll
OXO
Olum
Ozol
OzonlOn
01 0~m .
,,.r a' i ox (t )
Pub
P age
r aid
, .1
P ambl
Pan pi.
r aombd
P apnn.
,,,
P .n ch
Pn , d ed l
P' rl dial
Puad ilOd
Par m
Parm e
PlS hs
P atr a lx
PAZ
"	P.
PED AL
Pi
Pi ad
Pi-adph
Pi.mOoI
Piap
r id i,l
(Ob )
(Oh. -' ,I)
(Ob-tt- ah -yahl)
(Ohl-oll)
(O h- lo.d ·ah ·zo ad -m tt)
(Oh ·rold-oll-Iah)
(O h-.o.d ~ll ·nu ·loh-n u)
tOh_zold_ob_load_mahj
P
(P ay)
(P ah)
(P III -,h l )
(P ah· . , -ba, )
(P .II-1 IY)
(Pall-fe- dah )
(p ,II _lah)
(P all-mt t -ba y-l . y)
tr all-noo-p n- , . y)
(P ah-oh- mt e-bay-dah)
(p llI - pl y-noh-,. y)
(pall -r .y )
(P all _r.h . kah_hay)
(P all-r ah -kah-b ,-da hl
(P ah- rah -dte-all -la h)
(P ah- rah -d, i-zo ad -o h.da h)
( PIIl- r ay-m te)
(P all-r .y-mU- IU )
(Pab-us-hay-n s)
(P l lI-t ar- rall-l .yx)
(Pall -ro ld)
(Pa ll-da h)
(Pa y)
(Peh-oh-ah-Iay)
(P u )
(Pu·ah-d ah)
(Pu ah-da h-pay·h ay)
( Pu-a h-mo h-( ll)
(P u · ah-pay)
(Pn·dn· ah ·e e)
135
"Vomit OUI
M iChly SUI
lSlh Aelhy .
Ma k( m(
T heir hu d,
M anifold Wind,
And mak e u,
•B.
R (main
An O .k
R(sl
Alwayi
Tille of X
Unto me
P ourin c do .. n
Her m (mb er.
Thii r( membun c(
In Them
Equal
A weddinc
LivinC d .. e llinc,
Yirc ins
B"
Ld it run
Children
Ro ck
41h Aeth y.
Thirty-Ihr( (
Till e of B
5 ,9,6 , 3,6
Plac n (B ed)
You . God
Depth. of my J ... .
Ricllt (ou.nu.
Balan((
M arbl (

'Enochian 'WorUf ojflkis ter Crowuy
PH
pn. ..
PI"Pill i"
Pi.
P iri lKu
I"lri ps oH
P la pli
Ploti
P Olma l
Po ilp
' ,p
p ur
' r dn .
,'.P'e·
Pred
P riu (I)
,"Puco
,. .....
Q
Q ICocu bl
Q..
Quon ( I )
Qlnlt
Qllnc
QUail (Qu •• dlll )
Q ua.
Q uub
QUI"' '';
Q........
Q u. 1st
•
( P n-n )
( P ~ . b )
( P n-l a lHl a bl
( PreH.... ,oad .......nu .
(1'- 	, , 1
( P«-fff* p.,_ ba j
( 1'«- '«-1"'1011 11
fray -I, II-p ., -,",
(P .,-lo h-1oul
(P o h-a h- ma h-la hl
(Po h· .t< lah.paYI
(P oll- p. y)
(Ply - ,. h-. 10
( r.y- r.y-dah-J old ·,h . )
(ra J-ray-c u)
( PI , -r· Y-CI,1
(r ·'- ' · ' "II,-Iabl
("· 7-rfl'- l h - UN"I )
( P ·y · ",, -' Iy)
( rOO- lo b)
(P oo-ml
Q
( Ko h)
( k oh)
(K.Il .ah)
( Kl lI-l lI-o h-noo )
t K . h· n.t< ....)
(Koh-I. t<no G- ctt )
(K oo-ah .ah .lah)
( Ko o-I b-r .J )
(KOO-I h,," .. 1I· 7)
( Koo-a h-u htt)
(K_", noo )
(Koo-arri-ess-t .,l
R
I Ar)
136
Bt'd (or Shr if, • p iau )
Mor,... ...
Co ntinu. ll,
Firm. men' of Wa'.n
Hoi, 0,,"
Wllh the Huunl
Th. H ... n11
Parlah n
A. ma n y
Your " alau
Ar. d i. idod
191h A.thyr
D .. . l1
D iminis h
Flam«
Willi lh. Fir.
Of Fir.
Th_
......VnlO
Sharp wckl« ( KN l h ll)
0 ,
Con l. nt of Tim.
Your Gar m. nll
In Your Cru lion
Ol in.
Tho R oUon
Tho Croalo r
1636
D« lroy
,. .... ure
WhK oin
As In handmaid

RI-n ("
R.e1i,
Rn'l'l
• n
"wRlpir
R IptOn
."	Rl odn.
IRo"
R O~I . n
R,.m
s
S.
S•• ni.
Salbrol
5 .141
S.lm.n
S... nll
Sapall
Sidon
SI.,.d
Sibsl
S.
Sob.m
Sob h.
Sob.a
Sol~'h
Sonu!
SII' U '
S ,mp
T
T.
T."
(R ah ab-n, )
IR. h- lF. l h-Jio _ a"
( R a, -es s-I., -I.bt
( R _)
( RH- Gr-, . h)
( R u- P'"'". ah)
(R e... p. , _soh_noo )
(Ru-' a,)
( R ",-Ioh -d .h -n o ~•• )
( Ro h-.. ,)
(Rohs -I.h -nll)
(R lh -I.h -em)
s
( En )
(5' '''1
(S. h-. h-pe... .. ,)
(S .h-1. h-broh )
(S.h-lah-d.h)
(Sah-Ia h-mah-p u)
IS. h_ .. ,"·h-IH )
eS.h-p.h)
e ~ Hl h- n oot
(Se.... h-II,- .U.....,)
( Su -b.,-,u)
(So h)
(Soh-bah-mu)
(So h-b 'y-hah)
(So h-b .y- .. h)
(So h-I. h_p'y _,.,_h. , )
(Soh-nooO
(Soo-ra '-Io.d -Ih _",)
ISe... me",p l ' )
T
(T.,)
(Tl h)
(Tah-b. h)
137
The Easl
W""pinl
Th .1 '0" m. , p •• iM Him
291b Aeth, •
WHlo..
No pl.u
H uu n
Men ,
Mu c,n ,
S lIn, Klnl '
Wine
Admi •• lion
FOllrih
"P .ri t
Sulpb u'
W.....«
A 110""
To Ihe Rllhl",,"
Milhl, So "ntI,
Temple
S co.pions
Tile Co ~en.nl
"Whom
Who'e
In .. hOle
Hu .ken
Reien
He h lh , .. o.n
Another
. ....
••	To G o~ e ",

'Enachian 'WorM of :Meister Crowfey
r. bume
ra bun
r abl or d
r ab l o ri
r ab e n
T. i
r a l ba
T A N
rut ..;
r ,•••
f eloah
TI lac lVool ml
f .l oc b
TE X
T hild
T h il I n )
TI
tu
T il n!;
T lblbf
T Ub
Tlob'
Tl l "b
T "I .ar
T o'
T oClo
Yo ihl
To nu l
T_ n
T OR
T ore (I)
Ton ..
T ~"
To.. ..lp
To .
Tunan
Tn."
Trinl
Tror
T ur in
(Ta h .ba h -ah-ml ))
(Tah-ba h .ah -n o )
(Tah -bah · u h ., a , -d a h )
( Jah-b.h -oh - rul
(Tah -ba, -CI, -n>'
I Tah-lahl
t rall-loh .bohl
ITah-lI_l
(Yah.n .-Iay_'
( Tah'la h -noo)
a_y _loh_aM
t ray-lo h-la hl
lll,- 'u h-la h-"',.
(T a,o'
CTa,-hu-la h-da h)
(Tt y_hff_l a h )
( l tf)
(Ttf.t h )
( Tt t-a h -n u-U t)
( T, , -b .t<o ba , .df)
(T t l- 111l-bay '
{1 . ,- ob-boy-ll hl
tT a, -lu- oh-ba"
( To h. a h- ll"""
(T o h -ha , J
(T o h- I U-Io h)
(T u h-n - bly -Iah )
( lo h-n ,,-c")
( TOH h-o h-'I, -'I,I
(T u h- ray)
( To b-' I,-C")
( To r-zoad-oo)
(To h-,., -lo d-oo- lah)
(T o"'ny -lOOl d-oo- lat. -pay)
( To h ...
(T.y -n h-noh-nool
(T .y·ny_. ... n .. '
IT. y-ra y-u -n .. -l.yl
(Tay-rotHff)
(TOOI_bayons)
138
Pnl a .n l e o . ~ , n o " l
Guu ,no ,
L ~ ' h~r b ~ eou,nlNl
Gou ,n
Cu n
'nue o f .\ 1
CO"
17th A~.hy ,
Coine B ~ ron
"" o, m .. ood
Du,h
H im that i< r al ~n
D u , h
JIl. h A ~l h),
T h ~ ; , o .. n SUI>
Sun
"Vnlo ...
S h e is (0 ' b ~d )
S urro w
ll~ r
In h ~,
S ~ pa , a .~_ 10
H~.. ken
T, i.. m p hd h
All .h ines
Wit hin h n
~l Ib ~ m b. d d aced
F..rn ish inf
lJ ,d A~l h} ,
Crea ... , n of Earl h
Am.
S ba ll RiH
ROH Up
or Him
Marrow
Shal l B.
sn
Build'nl
Thoi, BU ill}

'Eno chian Sq,'Afag icli:.
v
~·.blir
V. o. n
V. U
~·.u l
V.un
Vcim
',h,.,
Vl n ,
VI ' I rn
VI
V;.;..
~' i "
Vi,q
v s,
Vlcinin
Vh
V. ...a-cln
''''''	V... t
Vmplif
"n.btl
"nu l V...,I)
Vnchi
\ 'nd -l
Vn;1
\ 'n il " l
Vnpb
Vo bi...
Vo nph o
VOMlo'I
,~.
Vonl
Vo.. i...,
"V_p• •• h (I)
YD'
V,bs
Vrelp
(V. h ·b, y" o .d ,u · ,.YJ
(V .y·o h•• h, no o )
(' ·. h-oo )
(V. h_o l. hl
(V. h-o nu l
(V. h· k. h. ,,- m•• )
(,·.,'h.,)
(V. , . p. ,)
(" . h- I· , -I h -,., .
(, ·. h· "y· , rr l
(\ 'or,
(\· 	r-uh )
( V 	" oo )
(V 	,- ko bl
( V • • nh )
i V. h-l. h· kr r- n ... nu l
(V. h. l. b- ns .
i V. h- 	IHl.' ·.h )
tV. h 	....-d.h )
( V. h- 	• .. " .
(V. h· 	p.'-Jrr..fro
tV. h- nab- lah)
( V. h_na h-ns)
t Va h·" oo- kl b. h •• )
(" a h· noo-d ah,l . hl
( Va h· nO""l rr l
(Va h-nr ""l , ,,,," b-Crr)
IVo n-pa , · ha y.
IV oh -"",,, ... rr)
(\ 'o n-pI ,- ho b)
(Vo h-nu oS ah-' I "lor )
( V_. h. nu)
(Vo'oSl h· Cor )
(Vo h-n r- n. h)
(Vah -p. , )
(Vah p. , .h-ha,)
(Vah · r ah. n oo )
(Vah -rly-ba , -ns)
(Vah· ray ·lah· pay)
139
[a , l.
T rulh (pu r ifi. d. l lo, ifi,d)
T ill, or l: o r ~.
Wo , l<
'1', ... il hl ",o , k
Th" fro ",n nOI
Ti ll. of C 0' K
Fl . ...,
Th , lt u nl lh of min
W .. S lr o ni
,.Th, so.o nd .n l lo
1n. o kr
S rs lt
Tb, Stron d
H.p py is H,
Th , Ends
S n OOI T o"" n
C. U, d
AdO
Our S lrr n llh
Sk i"s
Th~
Co nfo und
Til, , rs l
R iKl uirrt b
One .nd
An I"
Hu nd, . d
W,ath
[nl' yon.
Tru th. ",il h Ih .... Ihl l f. n
Oro , You
T h, O "lon
N.,
Wines
T h, Eldon
Bu ulifird
A S l ,on l Srr , of Thin cs

'Enochian 'World of 5l[eister Cro wf£y
va
VTI
VX
U,
U,
Ura n
Z (od)
ZAA
z.~.~
Za m,ao
Z"
ZEN
ZID
l ien
Z Ud.,
lllnda .p
ZIM
Zimll
Zlmz ' I)
ZIP
ZI,
Zirdo
l lrn
Zlrom
l lrop
l l dl'
Zlzo p
Zi ld.
l o ru
Z-o l
ZOM
lomd
Zo nae
Z onlon
Zonrt n.,
ZO'"
Zumbl
Z, lol
(V ah .tah )
(Vah .lU)
(V.h ·u )
( O o- no o)
(Oo- ,.y )
( oo- ,. h-oool
z
(Zoad)
(lnd -ah -ah)
(lo.d •• h·...."-r. y)
(lol d-. h-me ,., _h-noo )
(lo ld -a h-,.y)
(lol d -Iy - nool
(loa d-Of·da h)
(load-tt-.y-nd)
(lold -u-t_ h·d. "_,.y)
(Zoad-cc-lo h-d ah-r. y-pay)
(load.t e-mot)
(lold -te-mu- u)
( Zu d -u- mce-zoad)
(l oa d- fe-p ay)
(Zud-f e-r. y)
( Z o .d ~ ,.., . y -doh)
(l o ld- ee·.,. y-noo)
(lo. d-l t- Inh-rn",)
(Zoad- u - , oh- pay)
( Zo l d-I ,,- I. })
(Zold-u,zold-oh-pay )
( lo . d-l .... d .h)
(l ol d- ou-ur-zol d-. h)
(loa d oh-lah )
( lo ad -o h-mot)
(Z oad-oh- rntt -dah)
(Zoa d -oh- nah ·ka h)
( lo ad·o h ·nu · l oh · nu)
( Zoa d· on·r aynu·6 s·l tt )
(loa d-o r-I tt )
(Zo ad ·oo- mee·bee)
( Zo ad-e c--I ah·n ah)
140
14lh Aelhy r
25th Ael hy r
"Titl e of A
Title of L
S hall He
They (aI )
17th A tlh yr
Mo we
Sho w Y ou~IY6
( Cou .. ")
18lh A tl hy r
8t h A tl hyr
M y hand s
Flew
Co nq uest
13th Atlh yr
H n e entered
My yest ures
9th Aet hyr
I . m
J . m
Wo nd en
T here were
W..
To sti r up
Veu els
To .. ater
S .. ne
Hand,
J rd Aelhy r
In lhe mldsl of
T hey are appa re lled
T he W inds
Deliwered
Be ' rlend ly unlO me
Sus
In ltse l'

Chapter Nine
The Lesser Ritual of the Hexagram
This ritual operates upon the Macrocosm in the same manner that the
Pentagram ritual operates upon the Microcosm. It is to be performed after
the "Lesser Ritual of the Pentagram" and is most appropriate for
invocations of the Enochian Seniors.
1. Stand upright, feet together, left arm at side, right arm across body,
holding the wand or other weapon upright in the median line. Then face
East, and say:
2. "I.N.R.I. Yod. Nun. Resh. Yod. Virgo, Isis, Mighty Mother.
Scorpio, Apophis, Destroyer. Sol, Osiris, Slain and Risen. Isis, Apophis,
Osiris, IAO."
3. Extend the arms in the form of a
cross, and say:
"The sign of Osiris Slain." (See
illustration.)
4. Raise the right arm to point
upwards, keeping the elbow square, and
lower the left arm to point downwards,
keeping the elbow square, while turning the head over the left shoulder
looking down so that
the eyes follow the left forearm, and say:
"The sign of the Mourning of Isis" (See illustration.)
5. Raise the arms at an angle of sixty degrees to each other above the
head, which is thrown back, and say:
141

Enochian World of Aleister Crowley
"The sign of Apophis and Typhon." (See illustration.)
6. Cross the arms on the breast, and bow the head, and say: The sign
of Osiris Risen." (See illustration.)
7. Extend the arms again as in (3) and cross them again as in (6),
saying:
"L.V.X. Lux, the Light of the Cross."
8. With the magical weapon trace the
Hexagram of Fire in the East, saying:
"ARARITA."
(This is a word created by the initials of a
Hebrew sentence which means "One is His
Beginning: One is His Individuality: His
Permutation is One.") This hexagram consists
of two equilateral triangles, both apices pointing upwards. Begin at the top
of the upper triangle and trace it in a clockwise direction. The top of the
lower triangle should coincide with the central point of the upper triangle.
9. Turn to the South. Trace the Hexagram of Earth saying:
"ARARITA."
This Hexagram has the apex of the
lower triangle pointing downwards, and it
should be capable of inscription in a circle.
10. Turn to the West. Trace the Hexagram
of Air saying: "ARARITA."
This hexagram is like that of Earth: but the
bases of the triangles coincide, forming a
diamond.
142

Enochian Sex Magick
11. Turn to the North. Trace the Hexagram of Water saying:
"ARARITA."
This hexagram has the lower triangle placed
above the upper, so that their apices coincide.
12. Return to the East and repeat steps (1-7)
The Banishing Ritual is identical, save that
the direction of the Hexagrams must be reversed.
To invoke or banish Planets or Zodiacal signs, the Hexagram of Earth
alone is used. Draw the hexagram, beginning from the point which is
attributed to the planet you are dealing with.
143
