An
Astrological Judgment
Touching
Theft
Wherein is demonstrated most incomparable Secrets
According to the best Rules in Art.
First how to find out or discover Theft
or Thieves too much used in this Nation,
to the great damage of many People.
Secondly to discover Fugitives and Beasts
Lost or Strayed &
Compendiously set forth for the good of all people
Especially those that are not enemies to this Noble Art.
A piece not before Extant
By Anthony Griffin, Student in Astrology.
London, Printed by Peter Lillicrap
1665
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Republished by Canopus Publications, Box 774, Kingston, Tasmania 7051 ,
Australia

© Canopus Publications – all rights reserved
This Publication has been reproduced from the original text in
the interest of preserving and disseminating old Astrological
texts.
This version may not be reproduced or transmitted by any
means electronic or mechanical or recorded in any form
including photocopying or by any storage or retrieval
system except for personal use and is strictly prohibited
from use for reselling or any other commercial purposes.
To do so is in violation of copyright law.
This text is available here for download online in the public
domain and can be printed for personal use on A4 paper or on
your hard drive for personal use, at no cost. 	Printed and
bound versions are also available for a small fee.
The publishers and editor have taken all measures to ensure
this publication is an accurate reproduction of the original but
cannot guarantee it to be free of typographical errors.

To
His much Honoured Friend
Mr. Charles Chip,
The author wisheth all happiness in this world,
And Eternal felicity in the world to come.
Sir,
I MADE BOLD to Dedicate this small piece to you, though somewhat a
stranger to you at present, yet being desired by a faithful friend of yours: who
informed me of the great respect you owe to Art, I could do no less.
Therefore good Sir, let me Crave your pardon in this my presumption, and let
me desire you to pass by my imbecilities, which I do not fear but that you will,
when you have seriously considered my Minority, and how hard a matter it is
to comprehend the profundity of this sublime Science.
And now to let you understand what moved me here to make my self public, is
the true love that I owe to my Country, and I hope most will receive benefit by
those my weak endeavours, and upon this accountonly, I have presumed to
make know to the world this little tract of Astrology touching Theft, knowing it
must pass the Censure of various capacities, and from the unskilled I expect
blots, but from the Judicious a friendly Correction, and if at last it may be
crowned with your Protection, my expectation is fully answered: who faithfully
desires to subscribe himself.
Sir, your devoted servant
for ever to command,
Anthony Griffin

To the Judicious Reader
Reader,
When I did seriously consider what mischief is done by Thieves and
Cheaters, I could do no less but make public this little Treatise touching
Theft, &c.
Wherein Astrologically is plainly laid down some very excellent Rules of
Art Experimentally amplified, easy to be understood by the meanest
capacity, and certainly will be of much advantage, not only to those who
are well versed in this most sublime Science; but to most others that are
desirous to be instructed therein: and for the better understanding I
have here showed you whether the Figure at the time of the question is
Radical or not: that you may not deceive your selves nor the querent:
but certainly direct him how to find the Thief or goods stolen, &c. and
not out of the querent’s house, but he judgeth it stolen because theft is
so much practiced by servants, &c.
Therefore I have demonstrated to thy view, whether it be stolen or
remain in the house (if so) in what part thereof it may probably be found.
But if the goods are stolen, I have showed thee the best Rules how to
describe the Thief or thieves, which way they live, strangers or familiars,
&c.
Likewise concerning Beasts, if they are stolen or strayed, and Fugitives
with 	many 	other 	maters 	very 	useful 	and 	beneficial, 	to 	all 	that 	are
students in this Art, viz. Judicial Astrology: so Courteous Reader, let me
desire thee to pardon my imbecilities, and if God permit me with Life
and health, I shall furnish thee with another Piece Treating of the
judgement of all horary questions, more particular than any yet extant:
and to all carping Criticks and fantasticall sencerers I thus make them
an answer,
Ut Ignam Caves Omnibus ignotis, Allatrant its barbari; Quicduid non
intelligent Carpunt at damnant.
Thine
Anthony Griffin

An Astrological Judgment Touching Theft &c.
First to know whether the Figure be radical or not.
If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the hour be both of one
Triplicity the Figure is radical and Judgment may safely be given.
Example:
If Aries ascends and Mars be Lord of the hour the Figure is radical, the
same 	if 	Cancer, 	Scorpio, 	or 	Pisces 	ascends, 	Mars 	governing 	that
Triplicity: if that Sagittarius or Pisces ascends and Jupiter be Lord of the
hour, the Figure is Radical, and thus observe of all the rest: which by
your own discretion you may easily find out.
When 	the 	latter 	degrees 	of 	a 	sign 	ascends 	it 	is 	not 	safe 	to 	give
Judgment unless the Age, Corprature, and Complexion of the Querent
doth agree with the degrees ascending.
Also when the Second, Third, Fourth or Fifth degrees of a sign ascends,
chiefly in signs of short ascension, it is not safe to give judgment unless
the Querent be young and short in stature. Likewise if the Moon be in
the first degrees of a sign or else in the Latter, give no Judgment, for the
Querent comes to try thee and likewise for deceit.
Likewise if the Moon be unfortunate or be void of course, or if Scorpio
do ascend, or if the Dragon's-tail be in the first or seventh house, or if
that the fortunes and the infortunes be of equal strength, all these do
signify errors in Judgment, and an unlucky end of the question.
Narrowly observe whether the seventh House or his Lord be afflicted,
for then it is an Argument that the Artist shall not gain Credit by the
question, for the seventh House signifies the Artist himself.
Now I shall begin concerning Theft or any other thing lost.
When a Question is propounded concerning Theft, it is very convenient
to examine the figure and see whether the thing enquired after be stolen
or not or whether it be in the Querent's house or not which may be
discerned several ways as thus.
Choice tokens that the Goods are not Stolen.
If neither the Lord of the House of the Moon, or the Lord of the house of
the second separate not themselves one from another, nor any Planet
from, then the thing enquired after is in its own place.

If that the disposer of the Moon, and the Lord of the Ascendant be in
Conjunction, then is the thing missing in the house of the Querent.
If, that the Lord of the Ascendant did separate from Jupiter, or from the
Lord of the second, then did the Querent lay it down or forget it.
If that the Lord of the Hour be in the Ascendant, the thing wanting is not
stolen but in the Querent's house.
If that Cancer Ascends and the Moon be in the fourth, and the Lord of
the second be in the seventh, or in the sign of the eighth, or at a Sextile
or Trine to the Moon, then the thing enquired after is not stolen, but
taken away in Jest.
If that the Moon be in the seventh, in the sign of the Lord of the Hour,
the Lord of the Hour being Lord of the seventh, the Goods are not taken
away, but over-looked and mistaken.
If that the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the Hour be in
Conjunction, the thing enquired after is not stolen.
If the Lord of the Hour, the Lord of the fourth, and Planet in the fourth,
the Moon or her dispositor, any of these significators being joined near
together, doth argue that the goods are not stolen but near the Querent.
Having found whether the Goods be in the house or not, now I shall
show you in what part of the house you may discover them in. First I
shall show what places every Sign doth represent.
Aries
A place where small beast are kept, as Sheep and such like. In houses
the 	Roof 	Plastering, 	or 	covering 	of 	the 	house, 	Kitchens,
Slaughterhouses, backhouses, houses of office, Chimneys, fireplaces,
distilling house, brew house, or a place where iron is wrought on.
Taurus
A stable of great beasts and places where Implements of Cattle are laid
up, low grounds and Cellars, and ground newly taken in, pastures and
sowed lands.
Gemini
Upper Rooms, Chests, Trunks, walls and plasterings of the house,
storehouses, hay-lofts, and Barns, Hills, and Mountains.

Cancer
Wells, Cellars, Trenches, Cisterns, a place where water is kept, or doth
stand, great waters, Rivers, Marshy grounds, ditches with Rushes and
all kind of moist and flabby places.
Leo
Fireplaces as Chimneys, Stoves, Furnaces, Ovens, many times a place
where a dog is kept, a Stable, a Park or Forest, or ground newly taken
in.
Virgo
Studies, Closets, Coffers, Chests, Trunks, Cupboards, Dairy-houses, a
resting 	place 	for 	women, 	Warehouses, 	a 	place 	of 	great 	Cattle 	as
Horses, Oxen, Calves, &c.
Libra
Grounds near Windmills, out-houses, sides of Hills, tops of Mountains, a
place of Hawking or Hunting, in houses high Chambers, garrets, one
Chamber within another.
Scorpio
Sinks, Kitchens, Warehouses, a place of creeping venomous Beasts,
quaggy and stinking grounds, Ruinous houses, Caves and Prisons, and
likewise Gardens, Orchards, and Vineyards.
Sagittarius
Stable of great beasts, as Horses, Cows, Oxen, and in houses upper
rooms where fire is or hath been kept.
Capricorn
A place where old tools for husbandry are laid up, dark places in houses
near the ground or threshold.
Aquarius
Roofs or eaves in houses, hilly grounds newly digged, a place of
running waters full of pits, and grounds where no house is nigh them.

Pisces
Watery grounds, springs, Rivers, Water mills, moats about houses,
Wells, Pumps, Cisterns, Conduits and places where water is kept.
Note if the Moon be significator and in Pisces then the thing is hidden in
a Well.
To know in what part of the house the thing missing is in.
First 	consider 	the 	sign 	Ascending, 	and 	the 	sign 	the 	Lord 	of 	the
Ascendant is in and in what quarter.
Secondly the sign the Lord of the second is in.
Thirdly the sign of the fourth, and the sign the Lord of the fourth is in,
and the Planet in the fourth.
Fourthly the sign the Moon is in.
Fifthly the sign where the Part of Fortune is.
Sixthly 	the 	sign 	the 	Lord 	of 	the 	hour 	is 	in, 	and 	Collect 	all 	these
testimonies together, and according to the Major testimony so Judge.
Example:
If that the Major part of these Testimonies be Aiery signs, it is in some
Chamber, Garret, or Eaves of the house, or in some Hayloft, and so
Judge of all the rest.
If that the principal significator of the Major part of these be dropping
betwixt two signs, the thing missing is fallen down betwixt two Rooms,
or between the Wainscoat and walls, or dropt between some slit or hole
or the like.
Note that earthy Signs signify near the earth, low places in houses,
Cellars, low rooms, store-houses for Com and Hay, places where old
tools for husbandry are laid up, dark places or the ground near the
threshold or the like.
In fiery Signs where fire is kept.
In watery Signs where water is kept, a sink or some moist place or a
place near some Cistern, or where water doth constantly stand.

This Table doth show what part every sign doth signify, and by it you
may know in what part of the house the goods are in, likewise it may
direct the Querent to what part the Thief is gone, which afterwards will
be described more at large.
Aries 	East 	Libra 	West
Taurus. 	S. by E 	Scorpio 	N. by E.
Gemini 	W. by S. 	Sagittarius E. by S.
Cancer 	North 	Capricorn 	South
Leo 	E. by N. 	Aquarius 	W. by N.
Virgo 	S. by W. 	Pisces 	N. by W
That the Goods are Stolen.
If the Lord of the House of the Moon, or the Lord of the second, do
separate from any Planet it is Stolen.
If a Peregrine Planet give virtue to the Moon, or the Moon to him, it is
stolen.
If the Lord of the Ascendant do give virtue to the significator of the Thief
it is stolen.
If that the Significator of the Thief be Peregrine it is stolen.
If the significator of the Thief be in Conjunction, or Aspect the Lord of
the Ascendant by Quartile or Opposition, it is stolen.
If the significator of the Thief behold the Moon by Quartile or conjunction
it is stolen.
If any Planet be in the Ascendant and give virtue to the significator of
the Thief, it is stolen.
If a Peregrine Planet be in the Ascendant or second House it is stolen.
If that the part of fortune or his Lord be unfortunate it is stolen.
If none of these aforesaid Testimonies be, it is not stolen.
But nevertheless, in your Figure exactly observe and compare the
testimonies for not stolen, and those testimonies for stolen, and see
which is most weightiest and according give Judgement.

How to find out the significator of the Thief.
The significator of the Thief is a Planet peregrine in any of the four
angles or second house, if not, take the Lord of the seventh for he is the
significator of the Thief.
A description of the Thief by Saturn in any of the 12 Signs
The Thief hath a hoarse voice, high forehead, great and full face, almost
black eyes, small hair on his chin but thick on his head.
A 	large 	great 	forehead, 	an 	ill-favored 	countenance, 	and 	looking
downwards very sad and Melancholy, and an inconstant person having
a thick nose.
The 	Thief 	is 	moderate 	in 	his 	manners, 	betwixt 	wickedness 	and
gentleness, to them that are in his company, one of a fair voice and a
very well- spoken person, and gives good Counsel, and he esteems
much 	of 	himself, 	broad 	shoulders, 	a 	small waist, 	his 	beard 	of 	the
Common fashion, and he hath but little hair on his head.
Black eyes, a small face, a broad great forehead a great space betwixt
his eyes, and one that is an unconstant person.
A lean face, hollow eyes, a thick neck, great Armes, broad shoulders,
and looking down wards, one that is very forgetful.
A great head, and his hands very hairy, one of a profound judgment yet
unconstant in mind
A great and a large forehead, long neck, black hair, his nose stretcheth
out, and often the nails of his hands goes off, and he is one well
descended.
A long and narrow forehead, fowl great shoulders and feet, a high stiff
heck, the whole body in general but mean, generally in the sign he hath
much hair upon his head.
ius 	An 	indifferent 	great 	body 	and 	straight, 	a 	great 	nose, 	and 	a 	great
Countenance, his neck thick and hairy, like wise a great mocker.
rn 	A long face and yellowish, a sharp voice, a straight forehead, thick feet
and hands, and like wise very rough and hairy, and a stammering in his
speech.
s 	A 	great 	head, 	round 	eyes, 	a 	thin 	face 	towards 	his 	Chin, 	and 	his
employment most in moistness, as a Dyer, Shipwright, or a fisherman,
&c.

Being strong and fortunate by good Aspects, he is a man of a good
descent, and a noble Gentleman born, though Saturn be evil of himself,
yet in this sign he hath the similitude of good manners, great eyes,
unequal teeth, one of little speech drawing his words as though it were
with his tongue, and swift of body.
A short description of the other planets –
Jupiter, Mars, Sol, Venus, and Mercury.
Furthermore if the significator be Jupiter, and in the place of Saturn, it
doth signify a white mixed with yellow, if a man he hath around beard, if
either man woman they have some darker sight than ordinary, one of
some Gentility.
If Mars be significator in the place of Jupiter, the Thief shall be of
yellowish complexion drawing to redness, a round face, a long and
sharp chin, his brows bent like a bow or horn of the Moon, whose end
doth reach to his nose, a thin beard, light and swift of going about his
own matters, one of a sharp wit and very bold, and confident.
If the Sun be significator and in the place of Mars, the Thief is of a
whitish brown, a very round face.
A singer, a Taylor or a butcher.
If Venus be significator in the place of the Sun, he or she is white, and
void 	of 	all 	blots 	or 	marks, 	and 	hath 	an 	honest 	and 	a 	comely
countenance, very comely-eyed, wonderful gentle, loving and tender.
If Mercury be in the place of Venus and significator, it signifies a thin
beard, little hair, of a sandy complexion, somewhat long visaged, full of
speech and chattering, without reason or discretion, but very ingenious
and witty.
A description of the Thief by the Moon in any of the 12 signs.
The Moon significator of the Thief and in the first half of Aries gives a
mean stature, a thick ruddish coloured hair. In the last half of Aries
mean stature and lean, a great head, high forehead, great eyes, long
visage, a long neck, and straight shoulders, &c.
The Moon in the first half of Taurus, gives the body to be gross: but in
the last half, lean and mean, a fair stature, black hair, and rough like a
thornbush.

The Moon in the first half of Gemini, gives the body to be mean and
lean, but in the last half gross and thick, a round face, little mouth, long
nose, a fair voice, and one of a good Counsel.
The Moon in the first half of Cancer, gives a mean stature and lean, but
in the last half somewhat gross and tall, yet somewhat crooked, black
eyes somewhat impedited, crooked teeth, and the hair inclining to a
dark brown or quite black. The Moon in the first half of Leo, gives a
stature and thick, in the last half, tall and lean, smooth hair, a smooth
face, a little head, yet great eyes, short neck, one that is very rash and
of great strength, and likewise a great voice.
The Moon in the first half of Virgo, the body is inclinable to grossness, in
the last half, to leanness, small eyes, indifferent long visaged, a long
neck, much hair and of a brownish color.
The Moon in the first half of Libra, gives the body to be gross, in the last
half, lean, a mean stature, a long face, long legs, fair voice, of a
laughing countenance, a lover of women, and beloved of women.
The 	Moon 	in 	the 	first 	half 	of 	Scorpio, 	gives 	a 	mean 	tall 	stature,
somewhat lean, but in the last half gross, a small face, little mouth,
broad thick lips, and very long legs, and of dark auburn colored hair.
The Moon in the first half of Sagittarius, gives a tall stature, somewhat
lean, but in the last half gross, a fair stature, a long face, a great flat
nose, and sometimes Canker eaten, a sandy colored hair, and one that
delights much in Riding, and hath been hurt by some four footed beast,
or else by Iron, chiefly if the Moon be unfortunate.
The Moon in the first half of Capricorn, give a mean stature and lean,
but in the last half somewhat gross, a brownish colored hair, a narrow
forehead, thick lips, broad nose, great hands, and his body looks as if it
were withered; and one that is very wrathful.
The Moon in the first half of Aquarius, gives a short mean stature, in the
last half mean and lean, one that much useth the water, and hath one
leg shorter than the other, and if the Moon be unfortunate, hath been
either hurt by Iron, or else hath had a brand in the hand.
The Moon in the first half of Pisces, gives a mean stature somewhat
gross, but in the last half mean, a great head, round eyes, and a great
nose.
The Mark of the Thief.
Look to the Moon, and if she be significator, and in Scorpio, and
unfortunate by Saturn or Mars, and Venus have any Aspect by the

Moon, the party is hurt in the privy parts, by some woman, A Winchester
Goose, generally if that the Moon behold the significator of the Thief or
have any dignities where he is.
If the Moon be significator of the Thief, and she unfortunate, it shows
some defect in the party's eyesight, chiefly if she be in the Ascendant
afflicted by Saturn, Mars, or the Sun.
If Mercury be significator, and in Quartile or Opposition of Saturn, it
notes the Thief to have some impediment in his speech.
If Venus be significator and in any signs of Mars, it notes a woman
infamous for whoredom. Venus significator and in Quartile or Opposition
to Mars signifies the like.
Venus significator of the Thief, and in Leo, or with the Dragons-tail,
denotes the Thief to have a Copper nose.
Saturn or Mars in Opposition to the significator of the Thief shows that
the Thief is sick or will be shortly.
Venus significator and void of course gives a Mark in the face, or a
goggle eye, or a Wart, but if slow of motion, then she gives a hollow
Mould.
If that the Moon have any dignities where a Peregrine Planet is, then
there is a Mark where the Moon is, or where that Peregrine Planet is,
the sign will discover in what part of the body it is in.
If that the Moon be in Quartile or Opposition to the significator of the
Thief in the second house, it notes a Mark in the neck, if in the third
house in the Arms and shoulders and so in order &c.
If that the Moon be weak or in Quartile or Opposition to Saturn or Mars,
it denotes a Mark to be in the sign where the Moon is.
If that the Lord of the sixth be unfortunate, there is a Mark in the sign
where he is, and likewise in the sign of the cusp of the sixth.
Also observe the same method by the sign Ascending, and by the sign
that the Lord of the Ascendant is in. If the Lord of the Ascendant be
unfortunate then it is certain.
If Saturn be unfortunate in the Ascendant, gives a bruise or the like in
the head or face, Mars unfortunate in the Ascendant signifies a cut in
the head or face, or else damnified by Iron.
If that the Sun be significator and in fiery signs and unfortunate, it doth
note a bald head and short curled hair. But unfortunate in watery signs,
it signifies the Thief to have a scaled head.

Whether the Thief be of the family of the Querent or not.
If that the Lord of the Ascendant be in the Ascendant in his own sign,
then is the Querent robbed by himself, probatum est.
If that a Planet be in the first house and his sign be on the second, then
was the Querent robbed by his own counsel.
If a Planet be in the first house, and that Planet's sign be on the third
house, and that sign be feminine, say he was robbed by his sister or
some Kinswoman or some neighbour near him, and so in order of the
rest of the houses.
If that both the Luminaries behold the Ascendant, the Thief is one of the
family.
The Lord of the seventh in the Ascendant the same.
If that the Sun and Moon be both in their own houses, it is one of the
family.
But if only one of the lights doth behold the Ascendant, the Thief is one
that is a familiar in the house but doth not dwell there.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be joined with a Planet near the Ascendant,
it notes the Thief to be a private Thief in the house.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the second or sixth, it is one of the
household servants.
If the Lord of the sixth be in the second, or in the Ascendant, it is a
servant belonging to the house.
If the Lord of the seventh be in the sixth or eighth from his own house, it
is a servant, but if in his own house, then some Jolly fellow of great
name and fame in the house.
Which of the houses may be suspected for the Theft.
If the Sun be: significator, it signifies the Father, Uncle, Grandfather or
Master.
The Moon the Mother, Sister or Nurse, or otherwise some Tankard-
bearer, or Water-woman, a Charwoman or the like.
If Venus, the Wife or Mistress, chiefly in the tenth or seventh house.
Saturn in the fourth accuseth the Father; or some old serving man or
woman.
Jupiter significator accuseth some Gentleman of a good family that hath
stained the reputation of his kindred, a great wanderer, and is not

suspected 	and 	probably 	may 	be 	a 	guest 	in 	the 	house, 	and 	of 	a
Sanguine complexion.
Mars significator denotes a Brother or a Prentice, a Son or a Daughter
of the Querent.
If Mercury, it is some familiar friend, if he be in the eleventh house,
otherwise some runner of Errands, or some servant of the house.
Whether the Thief be of the kindred of the Querent, or some neighbor,
friend or stranger.
If 	the 	Sun 	be 	in 	Opposition 	to 	the 	Ascendant, 	it 	is 	an 	overthwart
neighbour.
If the Lord of the seventh behold the Ascendant by Trine or Sextile, it is
a neighbour.
If the Sun and Moon be both in their Triplicities it is a neighbor. If the
significator of the Thief be in the house or exaltation of the Lord of the
Ascendant, the Thief is of the kindred of the Querent.
The Lord of the Ascendant being in the house or exaltation of the Thief,
it denotes kindred.
The Sun and Moon beholding each other by a Trine Aspect, it denotes
kindred.
The Lord of the third or fifth in the Ascendant, or applying to the Lord of
the Ascendant denotes kindred.
The Sun and Moon both in their faces, the Thief doth call the Querent
Cousin.
The Lord of the Ascendant in the second or sixth, the Thief is one of the
household Servants.
The significator of the Thief in the ninth house it is a stranger.
The significator of the Thief in a moveable sign aspected of the Moon or
Mercury, or in their houses, or in any of their dignities, it is a stranger.
If that the significator be in an Angle in the terms of Jupiter or the Sun,
the Thief is more noble than the Querent.
If that the Sun and Moon be both in the second, third; fourth, fifth, ninth,
tenth, or eleventh house, it is signified that one of the house committed
the fact.

When 	you 	find 	the 	Thief 	to 	be 	one 	of 	the 	household, 	behold 	the
significator and so Judge as I described before.
Note that the significator of the Thief is a Planet peregrine in any of the
four Angles, but if none be there, then take the Lord of the seventh, he
is the significator of the Thief.
To know how many Thieves there are.
The significator of the Thief being in a fruitful sign it notes more than
one Thief.
The significator of the Thief in a double bodied sign the same.
If that the Sun and Moon do behold each other, it signifies the same.
If that the significator of the Thief be in a sign where there is more than
one Peregrine Planet, it notes more Thieves than one.
The Moon being in the fourth house in a common sign, there is more
than one Thief.
If that the Moon and Mercury be in equal signs it notes more Thieves
than one.
So many Peregrine Planets that there is, but chiefly in the second or
seventh houses, so many Thieves there are.
If that the significator of the Thief be in a fixed sign it signifies but one
Thief and no more.
If that the Moon be in any Angle in a fixed sign, it notes only one Thief.
If that the Moon and Mercury be in unequal signs then there is only one
Thief.
To know whether the Thief be a man or a woman.
If that the Ascendant be a Masculine sign, and the Lord of the house a
Masculine Planet, the Thief is a man.
If otherwise, they be Feminine, it notes a woman.
If that one be Masculine and the other Feminine, it shews two Thieves,
viz. a man and a woman.
Also if that the significator of the Thief be in a Masculine sign and the
Moon in a Masculine sign, it denotes a man.
If in Feminine signs then a woman. According to the major part of
testimonies give judgment.

How to know the Age of the Thief.
If that the Sun be significator of the Thief and he betwixt the Ascendant
and the tenth house, but chiefly in Aries. Taurus or Gemini, it notes the
Thief very young almost in Childhood.
From the tenth house to the seventh house, but chiefly in Cancer, Leo
or Virgo, it signifies youthful years.
From 	the 	seventh 	to 	the 	fourth 	house, 	chiefly 	in 	Libra, 	Scorpio,
Sagittarius, it signifies the Thief is of a middle age.
If the significator of the Thief be between the fourth house and the
Ascendant it signifies old age.
If that the significator of the Thief be in the house of Saturn or Aspected
of him, Or in the latter degrees of a sign, it signifies age.
If that the significator of the Thief be direct and a heavy Planet, or joined
with a heavy Planet, it signifies good Age, but if retrograde then old.
If that the significator of the Thief be joined to a Planet that is retrograde
it signifies old age.
Mars notes middle age, but not so much as Jupiter, nor Jupiter so much
as Saturn.
The Moon or a Peregrine Planet in the first degrees of a sign notes
youth, in the middle of a sign Riper years, in the latter degrees of the
Moon old age.
If that Mars, Venus or Mercury be significators of the Thief, according as
posited in the four quarters of the signs, so give judgment as before
directed.
The Moon increasing the Thief is young, the Moon decreasing the Thief
is old.
The Moon in the beginning of the month notes young, in the middle of
the month middle age, in the end of the month it signifies old age.
Two Peregrine Planets that are significators in Quartile or Opposition of
one another, especially from the first to the seventh house, it signifies
that one Thief will accuse another, probatum est.
To know whether the Thief be in Town or not.

Behold the significator of the Thief, and if that you find him in the end of
a sign direct, or separating from combustion, or applying to a Planet in a
Cadent house, say that he is gone or going out of town.
Also if the Lord of the Ascendant be in one quarter and the Moon with
the significator of the Thief be in another above ninety degrees asunder,
it denotes the Thief is out of Town a pretty large distance from the
querent.
But if they be in Angles and applying to Planets in Angles, then say that
the Thief is no large distance from the Querent, more especially if that
the Sun and Moon be both in one quarter of heaven.
If that you find the significator of the Thief going out of one sign into
another, the Thief is either gone or going out of town.
Say the same if you find the significator of the Thief departing from the
sun's beams.
And according to the place and quarter that the significator of the Thief
is in, and likewise the sign that he is in, judge that way he is gone.
If that the significator of the Thief or one of them be in the Angles, he is
hot gone out of town as yet but is near the Querent.
If in succedant houses not far from him, and chiefly if that the Lord of
the Ascendant and the Moon be both in one quarter.
If the significator of the Thief be in a Cadent house then he is gone far,
especially if that the Lord, the Ascendant and the Moon be more then
ninety degrees asunder.
If that the Lord of the seventh be in Angles with the Lord of the second,
the Thief is hot out of the Town and Parish of the Querent.
Whether the goods be with or near the Querent.
The Lord of the Ascendant in an Angle, the goods are in his hands.
If that the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the hour be both in
Angles, the goods are in the querent's hands probatum est.
If that the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the house of the Moon
be both in Angles, the goods 	are in the querent’s hands and are
moveable.
If that any of these Lords be in Angles, and in Trine or Sextile to the
Lord of the Ascendant, the goods shall be had again.
If that the Lord of the Ascendant and the Lord of the hour be both in
succedant houses, the goods are about the owner.

If that the Lord of the second be in the Ascendant, they shall be found
and not known from whence they come.
If that the Lord of the house of the Moon be moveable, they are about
the owner.
If that the Lord of the term of the Moon or the Lord of the second house
be in succedant houses, they are not far from the owner.
To know which way the Thief dwells from the Querent
Look in what sign and quarter the significator of the Thief and the Moon
is 	in, 	and 	accordingly 	judge 	which 	way 	the 	Thief 	dwells 	from 	the
Querent.
Tokens of the Thief’s house.
If that the Moon be in Conjunction, Quartile or Opposition of Saturn, the
door or gate of the Thief is broken or black.
In Trine or Sextile to Saturn mended again.
The Moon in Quartile or Opposition of Mars, the door or gate of the
Thief’s house is burnt or damnified by Iron.
In Trine or Sextile to Mars, mended again.
If that the Moon is unfortunate the Door is either Cracked or broken.
If that the Moon be increasing in light or in a fixed sign, his gate or door
is part under the earth, or the house standeth under a bank side.
The Moon in fixed or moveable signs he hath but one door.
The Moon in common signs more than one door.
The Moon in a moveable sign the gate or door is above earth, viz. a
step or two to go up to it.
Note in what part of heaven the Moon is in, and in that part of the house
the door openeth.
Of the distance of place
Behold how many degrees are betwixt the significator of the Thief and
the Moon, and narrowly observe whether the signs are fixed, moveable
or common.
If in fixed signs account for every degree a mile, if in moveable signs so
many Rods.

If in Common signs, so many tens of miles.
Or look what distance there is betwixt the Ascendant and his Lord, such
is the distance between the thing lost and the place.
Or look how many degrees the significator is in his sign, so many miles
are the cattle lost or strayed, and the place where the Lord of the fourth
is, there is the place signified.
Likewise note how many degrees are betwixt the Lord of the hour and
the Lord of the seventh house, so many miles the Thief is gone.
If that the Moon be within 30 degrees of the Lord of the Ascendant, the
Thief is near the loser of the goods.
If the significator of the Thief or Moon be within 70 degrees of the Lord
of the Ascendant, then he is within the Town or Parish of him that lost
the goods.
If 90 degrees from the Lord of the Ascendant, then the Thief is out of
town.
If that the Lord of the seventh be in a strong Angle, he is not out of the
town where the Theft was done.
Whether the Thief shall be known or not.
Most Planets in Cadent houses, the Thief shall be openly known.
The Sun in Quartile or Opposition to the significator of the Thief, openly
known.
The Sun in Quartile or Trine, then hidden or cloaked.
Whether the Thief hath the goods in his own keeping or to whom he
hath delivered them.
If the Moon behold the significator of the Thief by Trine or Sextile, the
goods are in the Thief’s hands.
If the Lord of the house of the Moon doth behold the significator of the
Thief by Quartile or Opposition, then the Thief shall lose them again.
If the Lord of the term of the Moon doth so behold him, the same.
If the significator of the Thief gives virtue to no Planet, then he hath the
goods still in his own keeping.
If that any Planet be in Conjunction with the significator of the Thief, or
behold him by any Aspect, and that Planet hath more dignities in the

sign where the significator of the Thief is, then the Thief hath delivered
them to another.
If that the Lord of the house of the Moon, or the Moon be with the
significator of the Thief, then he hath the goods still in his own hands.
But by Quartile or Opposition, the goods are stopped from the Thief.
If that the Lord of the term of the Moon, or the Lord of the second, be
with the significator of the Thief, or Aspect him by Sextile or Trine, then
the 	Thief 	hath 	them 	still, 	but 	with 	Quartile 	or 	Opposition 	they 	are
stopped from him.
If that the Moon give virtue to the significator of the Thief, then one Thief
steals from another.
If that the Lord of the Ascendant or any Planet in the Ascendant do give
virtue to the significator of the Thief, then the owner of the goods hath
Voluntary given them to the suspected Thief.
If that the significator of the Thief keep his own virtue to himself, he hath
the goods in his own hands.
But if the significator of the Thief part with his virtue to any other Planet,
he hath delivered them out of his possession.
If 	the 	significator 	of 	the 	Thief 	give 	his 	virtue 	to 	the 	Lord 	of 	the
Ascendant, he will give them again to the owner either in part of in
whole, according to the dignity or virtue he gives to the Lord of the
Ascendant.
If to the Lord of the third, to a brother, kindred or neighbor of the owner
&c.
And so of all the twelve houses you may easily know to whom he hath
delivered them.
Whether the Thief shall be taken or not.
If the Lord of the Ascendant follow after the significator of the Thief he
shall be taken.
If the significator of the Thief be unfortunate by Mars he shall be taken.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in his own house, the Thief shall be
taken.
If the significator of the Thief be in the twelfth house he shall be
Committed to prison.
If unfortunate lie long, or die there.

If the significator of the Thief be unfortunate, the Thief shall be taken.
Whether the suspected Party be guilty or not.
If that the significator of the Thief be in Quartile or Opposition to the
Lord of the Ascendant, the querent doth suspect the Thief, as many
Planets as be in the sign so many Thieves doth the Querent suspect.
If that the cusp of the four Angles be all fixed, it signifies that the Party
suspected is guilty. If the Moon be joined to an evil Planet or an evil
sign, the party suspected is guilty.
If the Moon be evilly aspected the party suspected is guilty.
If the Lord of the hour be in Opposition, to Scorpio or Capricornus, the
suspected party is guilty.
If that the Lord of the hour be in a South sign, and a night house, the
suspected is guilty.
But if he be in an Occidental sign as Gemini, Libra, Aquarius, or in the
Center of the earth, the suspected is no Thief, but the Thief dwells in the
town where the goods are lost.
That the party suspected is not guilty.
If the Moon be joined to Jupiter, Venus or the Part of Fortune, the party
suspected is not guilty.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in a Cadent house, and not joined to a
Planet in an Angle that receiveth him, the suspected is not guilty.
If that the Ascendant be a moveable sign as Aries, Cancer, Libra or
Capricorn, and so much the more if that Saturn or Mars have any
Aspect to the Ascendant, or if the Dragons-tail be in the Ascendant, the
party suspected is not guilty and the report is false.
If the Moon be joined to a Planet in a Cadent house, the party is not
guilty.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in an Angle and joined to a Planet
Cadent, the party suspected hath an evil report undeserved.
If the Moon be impedited in an Angle the party suspected is not guilty.
If the Lord of the eighth be in the fifth or eleventh house, or if the Moon
be void of course, the party suspected is not guilty.

Tokens that the goods lost shall be recovered.
If the significator of the Thief do apply to the Lord of the Ascendant by
Trine or Sextile, they shall be had again.
If the Moon apply to the Lord of the second house by Trine or Sextile,
the goods stolen shall be recovered.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in his own house, the owner shall
recover the goods himself.
If the Lord of the term of the Moon be in Trine or Sextile to the Lord of
the Ascendant, the owner shall have the goods again.
If the Lord of the second apply to the Lord of the Ascendant it denotes
recovery.
If the Moon apply to any Planet by Trine or Sextile, and the application
be in moveable signs, look how many degrees it is till they come to their
perfect Aspect, and in so many days it shall be recovered, and if the
Sun be in the Ascendant he likewise takes the Thief.
If the Lord of the Ascendant apply to the Lord of the seventh, or he be in
the seventh house, they shall be had again by the care and diligence of
the Querent.
If the Lord of the Ascendant be in the tenth house, it denotes recovery,
but with a great deal of care and labour of the Querent.
If the Lord of the second house be strong, and behold the Ascendant,
and Lord thereof, by Trine or Sextile, the goods shall be had again.
If the Lord of the second house be in the second house, or behold the
second 	by 	Trine 	or 	Sextile, 	part 	of 	the 	goods 	may 	be 	had 	again,
according to the strength or weakness of the Lord of the second hive
Judgment.
If 	the 	Lord 	of 	the 	Ascendant 	be 	fortunate 	in 	the 	Diameter 	of 	the
firmament, then the Thief shall bring again the thing from whence he
stole it.
If the Lord of the Ascendant and fourth house be in the first house, and
the Lord of the first, and Lord of the hour, be in the fourth house, the
goods stolen or lost shall be had again. If the Lord of the Ascendant and
the Lord of the hour be both in the Ascendant, it shall be found near or
about him that stole it.
If the Lord of the Ascendant and Lord of the hour, or one of them be in
the seventh, it shall be found in few days.

If the Lord of the Ascendant, or Lord of the hour, have a good Aspect to
the Sun, the thing lost shall be had again.
If the Moon behold the Sun by Opposition, the Thief shall be found, but
the goods not to be had by any means.
If the Lord of the second be bodily joined to the Lord of the eighth or by
Aspect, the Querent shall have his goods again, or satisfaction for them
of the Thief.
If the Lord of the second doth apply luckily to the part of fortune, and the
part of fortune be in the first, second, seventh, or tenth houses, it gives
knowledge of the goods, and the Thief that stole them.
The Lord of the second and the Lord of the tenth both in one house, it
notes discovery, and doth give good hopes of finding it again.
If the Lord of the second be joined by Sextile or Trine to any Planet in
the second it notes recovery.
If the Lord of the hour be fortunately placed and strongly aspecting the
Lord of the first or second, it notes recovery.
If the Lord of the second be fortunate in the first, or the Lord of the first
fortunate in the second, it signifies recovery.
If the Moon, Jupiter or Venus be fortunate in the second or first, it shews
good hopes of recovery! if the Moon applies to her disposer, or to the
Lord of the term she is in by Conjunction, Trine or Sextile, it notes
recovery.
If the Moon gives virtue to the Lord of the fifth, or Lord of the eleventh
house, it notes recovery.
If the Lord of the second be in the second, or behold the Sun by Trine or
Sextile, it notes recovery.
If the Lord of the second and Mercury be in Conjunction, it notes
recovery, but with a great deal of grief and contention.
If the Moon be in the Ascendant with any of the fortunes, it notes
recovery.
Yet nevertheless you must in giving Judgment go by the major part of
the Testimonies whether the goods shall be had or not, and in so doing
you can not err.
The time when the goods stolen or missing shall be found.

The Moon beholding her own house by Trine or Sextile, it shall be had
within three days.
If the Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon be both in the Ascendant,
and the Sun behold them by Trine or Sextile, it shall be found the same
day it was lost, but if that he behold them by a Quartile it signifies a
week, if by Opposition a month.
The application of the Moon to any Planet by Trine or Sextile, it the
application be in moveable signs, look how many degrees they want of
their Aspect, and so many days it shall be before it shall be recovered.
And if that the Sun be in the Ascendant it discovers the Thief. Likewise
behold the two Planets that be applying, and you may know by their
application, the recovery of the goods stolen, and number how many
degrees they are one from the other's Aspect, and so judge of hours,
days, weeks or months.
If that the two applying Planets be in moveable signs, the degrees
betwixt them will signify weeks or months, yet sometimes days. Judge
that according to the swiftness or slowness of their motion.
If in fixed signs then months or years.
If that the significators be in Cadent houses, then it doth signify they will
quickly be recovered.
If the two significators be in Angles it shall be long first.
Look to the Sun and Moon, and if that they be parted from the part of
fortune, or be both or either of them joined to the part of fortune, if not,
see then which is nighest the part of fortune, the Sun or Moon, and he
that is highest the part of fortune, either by application or separation,
shall signify the time, viz. how many degrees the nearest is to him.
If that the part of fortune be in an Angle, it shall be so many days or
weeks as is degrees between them.
If the part of fortune be in a succedant house, then so many weeks or
months.
If the part of fortune be in a Cadent house, then so many months or
years.
Note that the finding of the things by the Sun is sooner than by the
Moon.
Choice tokens that the Goods stolen shall not be recovered.

If the Lord of the Ascendant be in, Quartile or Opposition to the Lord of
the seventh, then the goods will be stopped from the owner.
If the Moon be in Quartile or Opposition to the Lord of the seventh, it
signifies the same.
If the Lord of the term of the Moon be in. Quartile or Opposition to the
Lord of the Ascendant, the same.
If Saturn, Mars or the Dragons-tail be in. the eighth or second houses it
shows small hopes of recovery.
If the Lord of the second be Retrograde or Combust, the same. If the
Moon be Combust or under the beams of the Sun the same. If the Lord
of the term of the Moon, and the Lord of the house of the Moon, be both
diminishing motion and number, and infortunes beholding them both, it
is not to be recovered.
If the Lord of the eighth be in the Ascendant, and the Lord of the
Ascendant in the eighth, it is not to be recovered.
If the Sun. and Moon be going to a Conjunction under the earth at the
time of losing the goods, neither goods nor Thief shall ever be heard of.
If that the Sun and Moon be going to a Conjunction or Opposition, the
goods lost will not by any means be recovered.
Likewise, if both the Luminaries be under the earth, the goods lost will
hardly ever be heard of again.
Also the Lord of the second in the eighth house, no recovery.
Of friendship and hatred between the querent and the thief.
If that the lord of the Ascendant and significator of the Thief do behold
each other by Trine or Sextile, then is friendship between them, and so
much the more if there be reception.
But if they do behold each other by Quartile or Opposition, then do they
hate one another. But if there be no Aspect between them, then they do
neither love nor hate one another.
Whether the Thief be beloved of his neighbors or not
If that the disposer of the Moon doth behold the Moon by Trine or
Sextile, it is one that all his neighbours loves well, and he is very
pleasant to them.

If that the disposer of the Moon doth behold the Moon by a Quartile, he
is neither much loved, nor much hated, some men speak well of him but
the most part speak ill of him.
If that the disposer of the Moon doth behold the Moon by Opposition, it
is one that all men speak evil of and all his neighbours doth hate him.
If the disposer of the Moon be in Conjunction with the Moon either
above or under the earth, the Thief is a busy fellow in all matters and
troubled in mind, yet can not have his will.
That the Querent is Thief himself.
If that Mars be significator and in the tenth house, the Querent is the
Thief himself.
If that the significator of the Thief be in the Ascendant the Querent is
Thief the more sure it is if the sign Ascending and the significator of the
Querent cloth agree with his Complexion.
That the Thief and Querent be both in one house.
If the Lord of the sixth house and the Lord of the Ascendant be both
together in an Angle, or if that the Lord of the house be with the Lord of
the Ascendant in an angle, then the owner and the Thief be both in one
house and the goods ready for the owner: proved many times.
Whether the Thief be married or not.
If the Lord of the seventh house be in an Angle he is married, if in a
succedant house towards marriage, if in a Cadent then neither married
nor like to be.
A Scheam erected concerning a house Robbed in the Minories of thirty
pounds worth of Clothes the 20th September 1663.

Judgment upon the foregoing figure.
This figure is more difficult than ordinary in giving Judgement by reason
that all the four quarters are concerned in it, therefore I shall according
to my Judgement give you the perfect discovery of it.
First I find the sign of the seventh house a western sign.
Secondly, Mercury, Lord of the seventh house and Lord of the hour in a
northern sign, but in the fourth quarter.
Thirdly, the part of fortune in an easterly sign, yet in a northern quarter.
Fourthly, Mars, Lord of the fourth and disposer of the part of fortune, in
a northern sign, but in the western quarter.
Fifthly, the Moon being in Quartile with the Sun, he being in a westerly
sign.
Sixthly, the Dragons-tail being in a Westerly sign, but in the North
quarter, which doth signify the devoiding and the sale of the goods to be
north-west from the querent, notwithstanding the greatest part of the
goods 	went 	to 	the 	South-east, 	but 	yet 	where 	after 	that 	they 	were
devoided.
Because that the Moon was in a South sign, but in the East quarter next
applying 	to 	Venus, 	she 	entering 	an 	East 	sign, 	and 	in 	an 	Easterly
quarter, but this I shall describe more at large hereafter.
Therefore, 	according 	to 	the 	aforementioned 	testimonies, 	I 	sent 	the
Querent to Cow-Cross, or about the lower end of Long-lane London,

which it did so appear after discovery, that they were devoided in an
Alley near Cow-Cross, and by this means did I discover it.
First, I find the Moon in the first house, and she applying to Venus, she
having exaltation in the third, and entering the sign ascending, and
being Lady of the tenth house, which is the house of discovery.
Also Venus being a feminine Planet and the sign of the third a feminine
sign, where Venus hath exaltation, and the part of fortune being in the
third, I told the querent that the goods would be discovered, and that by
a sister of hers, or some kinswoman that dwelt that way, and so it was,
for it was discovered by her own sister after this manner.
One of the Thieves sent a woman to sell the Clothes at the Querent's
sister's house, and her sister knew the goods by which means they
were all taken.
The Querent had some part of satisfaction, but not all, as the Dragons-
tail in the second doth show.
But there was grand testimony of discovery, because the Moon was in
the first house. Secondly, Saturn, Lord of the second in the Ascendant
with Jupiter, Lord thereof.
Thirdly the Moon in application to Venus, she being a fortune, and Lord
of the tenth, which notes discovery.
Concerning the distance I thus judged.
Finding the Sun and Moon casting their Aspects to the part of fortune,
and within five degrees of the true Aspect, and both of them newly
separated and in moveable signs, I did judge it to be some five or six
furlongs North-west, and so it Was.
Likewise, I found three thieves by the figure, two women and one man.
First, I find Mercury, Lord of the seventh, in the tenth a sign feminine
and likewise the house feminine, which doth signify one woman.
Secondly, 	the 	Moon 	in 	Capricorn, 	a 	feminine 	sign, 	peregrine, 	and
applying to Venus a feminine Planet, I did discover another woman.
Also finding the Sun in Opposition to the part of fortune, I did discover
another which was a marl, and this was true, for the man made his
escape, the two women were taken and committed to New-gate, and
both of them were condemned to die, yet one was reprieved and the
other was hanged.

Concerning beasts or any living thing lost or strayed
First the beasts are not stolen but strayed.
First of all, if that the Lord of the second, or Lord of the sixth, or Lord of
the house of the Moon do separate from any planet then strayed but if
any Planet separate from them, then led away.
If the Moon give virtue to Saturn or Mars, or to the Lord of the eighth, or
to any Planet in a Cadent house, especially by Trine or Sextile, the
beasts are strayed of themselves.
Note 	that 	the 	separation 	herein 	named, 	is 	that 	when 	one 	planet
separates from another by Conjunction and no otherwise.
If that the Lord of the house of the Moon, or Lord of the second, do
separate from any Planet, or from their own houses, of the signs be
fixed, then stolen; but if moveable, fled of themselves.
That the cattle are driven away or stolen.
If that any Planet doth separate from the Lord of the house of the Moon,
they are driven away or stolen.
If that any Planet doth separate from the Lord of the second house, they
are stolen or driven away. If that none of these things be, the beasts are
not far from the place they first went from.
Where the Beasts are.
If that the Lord of the sixth be in fiery signs, they are Eastward
If in woods where are bushes or brambles or where fire hath been. But if
in Angles in fiery signs, then in a close pound or under a lock.
If in earthy signs, then south in Grounds.
But if in an Angle close pounded, in succedant houses, in Closes on the
Right hand of the Querent.
If in Cadent houses, on the left hand of the querent.
If in Aiery signs, then are they westward in marshy Grounds. In an
Angle, the beasts are housed or pounded.
If succedant houses, west on the right hand of the Querent.

If in Cadent houses, on the left hand of the Querent, in a Common going
away.
If that the Lord of the sixth be in watery signs, North, in a low place.
If in an Angle, in a close or pound northward.
If in a Cadent house, on the left hand of the Querent, northward going
awayward.
If that the Lord of the sixth be in moveable signs, they are hilly grounds.
If the Lord of the sixth be in fixed signs, in marshy grounds where new
buildings are.
If in Common signs, then in grounds where ditches and water is, and
where rushes grow.
If the Lord of the term of the Moon be in fixed signs, they be in places,
newly taken in, or near some new buildings.
If in moveable signs, in a place full of hills.
If in Common signs, in watery places or Marshy grounds, high ditches or
pits.
Whether the beasts be in the pound or no.
If the Lord of the sixth be in the twelfth house, then are the beasts in the
pound.
If the Lord of the sixth or the Moon be unfortunate, they shall be
pounded.
If the Lord of the sixth or twelfth be in the tenth or ninth, they are in the
custody of some Justice or Officer, or under lock.
If the Lord of the twelfth do apply to the Lord of the Ascendant, or the
Ascendant unto the Lord of the twelfth, and either one or both of them
be unfortunate, the beasts will be pounded.
If the significator of the beast be unfortunate in the eighth house, the
beast will die in the pound.
If Mars doth Aspect the Moon in the twelfth by Conjunction, Quartile or
Opposition, they will be killed in the pound.

Whether the beast be dead or alive.
If the Moon doth apply to the Lord of the eighth house, dead.
If the Moon doth apply to the eighth house, or the disposer of the Moon
doth apply to the eighth house or his Lord, dead or will be speedily.
If the Moon doth apply to the Lord of the eighth house, from the place
where she is., then dead.
To know if the beasts be lost.
lf the Lord of the sixth be unfortunate by Saturn or Mars, then the beasts
are lost.
Chiefly if the Lord of a Cadent house.
If the Lord of the sixth doth behold the Lord of the Ascendant by Quartile
or Opposition, they are like to be stopped from the owner.
If the Lord of the sixth doth so behold the Lord of the Term of the Moon,
the same.
If the Moon and the Lord of the house of the Moon doth behold one
another, by Quartile or Opposition, they will be stopped from the owner.
Whether the beasts shall be had again or not.
If the significator of the sixth house be fortunated by Jupiter or Venus,
and they or either of them be in the second, fifth or eleventh houses, the
beasts shall be had again.
If the Lord of the Term of the Moon, or the Lord of the fourth house, be
with the Lord of the Ascendant, or with his Almuten, the owner shall
have his goods again.
The Moon in Trine or Sextile to the Lord of the Ascendant, they will be
found.
The Moon in Trine or Sextile to the Sun, then they may be found.
The Sun in the Ascendant, except in Libra or Aquarius, the goods will be
found.
The Lord of the Ascendant, or the Lord of the second house, in the
house of the significator fortunate, they shall be found.

As you have the explanation of small beasts by the sixth house and his
Lord, after the same manner, Judge by the twelfth house and his Lord
for great beasts.
Concerning Fugitives
How to find out the significator of a Fugitive
If that a question be proposed concerning one that dwelt in the house
with the Querent, then take the Planet in the Ascendant not being the
Lord thereof. But if none be there, then take the Planet that is in the sign
or house where the Lord of the Ascendant is, if none be there, then take
the Moon, she shall be the significator of the Fugitive.
But if that he enquires for his servant, then take the sixth house and his
Lord, if for his brother or sister, then the third house, if for his child, then
the fifth house. If for his acquaintance, his public enemy, or his wife or
sweet heart, then take the seventh house, if for his friend, then take the
eleventh house, and so be sure to take the right significator.
Whether the Fugitive will be found or come again.
If the significator of the Fugitive be in the Ascendant, he comes of his
own accord.
If the Moon be separated from the Lord of the Ascendant, and then
immediately doth apply to the significator of the Fugitive, you shall hear
news of the party fled, for some or other will tell you where he is.
If 	the 	significator 	of 	the 	Fugitive 	be 	Combust, 	or 	entering 	into
combustion, the Fugitive shall be found though he hide himself secretly,
this hath been often proved.
If the Moon doth separate from the significator of the Fugitive, and then
doth immediately apply to the Lord of the Ascendant, then, the fugitive is
sorry that he went away, and will send one to treat that he may come
again.
If that the Moon be joined to ill Planets, as Saturn or Mars, or the
Dragons-tail, or to a Planet Retrograde, he shall be found, or come
again of his own accord.
If the Lord of the Ascendant doth behold an evil Planet from the house
signifying the Fugitive, the querent shall then find the party fled.

If that the Moon do separate from Jupiter or Venus, he shall come back
again, or a thing lost shall be quickly found.
If that the Moon doth behold her own house by Sextile or Trine, the
Fugitive shall return in three days.
The Moon being in Virgo, he that flyeth shall soon return. If that the Lord
of the Ascendant be joined to the significator of the Fugitive or applying
to them, or applying to it, the Fugitive is taken.
The Lord of the Ascendant in his own house, he shall be taken.
The significator of the Fugitive unfortunate by Saturn or Mars, then
taken.
The Moon in the Ascendant with Jupiter or Venus, he comes again.
The Lord of the Ascendant and the Moon applying to the Lord of the
tenth, or to the Lord of the house of the Moon, the Fugitive shall be
found. The Moon unfortunate, he shall be taken, but chiefly when she is
unfortunate in the tenth house.
The Moon and Lord of the Ascendant in the Ascendant and the Sun
beholding them by a Trine or Sextile, the Fugitive shall be found the
same day, but with a Quartile aspect in a week, with an Opposition in a
month.
When the significator of the Fugitive comes into the house of the Lord of
the Ascendant, then comes the Fugitive into the hands of the querent.
If the Moon be in evil terms, and with Saturn or Mars, or either of them
be in the house where the Moon is, he is with some poor strange people
who will bring him again.
Where the Fugitive is.
If that the Moon give virtue to Saturn or Mars, or be in any of their
houses, then he is with some kinsman as evil as himself.
If the significator of the Fugitive be in the seventh house, he is hid in the
house of him that knows him well.
If his significator be in an Angle, he is in a house, if in Ascendant, he is
in a close or street, if in a Cadent house, he is in a Common, an
indifferent large distance off.
If that the significator of the Fugitive or the Moon be in a strong Angle
within three degrees of the Ascendant or his Lord, it notes the Fugitive
to be in the Town or Parish of the Querent and very near him.

If he be within seventy degrees of the Ascendant or his Lord, he is yet in
Town, but chiefly if that he be in an Angle, but if that he be above
seventy degrees and in a Cadent house, then he is gone far.
If that the significator of the Fugitive be in the fourth, sixth or tenth
houses, he is gone but a little way, but if he be in the third or ninth
houses, then he is gone far.
If any Planet hath dignities where the significator of the Fugitive is, if
that Planet doth separate from the Lord of the Ascendant, and apply to
any Planet in the sixth, eighth or twelfth house, he is then out of town, if
that the significator of the Fugitive be going out of one sign into another,
then he is new gone out of town.
If 	that 	the 	significator 	of 	the 	Fugitive 	doth 	behold 	the 	Lord 	of 	the
Ascendant with a Quartile aspect, he is gone out of Town.
If that the significator of the Fugitive be departing from the Sun, he is
gone out of Town.
The 	significator 	of 	the 	Fugitive 	separating 	from 	the 	Lord 	of 	the
Ascendant, especially if he have any dignities in the place where the
significator of the Fugitive is, and he applying to any Planet in the sixth,
eighth or twelfth houses, he is gone out of town.
To know the distance between the Querent and the Fugitive.
If that the significators of the Fugitive and the Lord of the Ascendant be
in fixed signs account for every degree, between him and the Lord of
the Ascendant, three miles.
If in Common signs, one mile.
If that the significator of the Fugitive be in the fourth, sixth or tenth
houses, he then is gone but a little way, but in the third or ninth houses,
he then is gone far.
Another distance.
Mind the distance of the aspect that the Moon hath from the sign or
cusp of the significator of the Fugitive or from the Fugitive himself.
And for one degree in a Common sign give five paces, and for one
degree in a moveable sign give seventeen paces.
And for one degree in a fixed sign give a thousand paces.
Note that one-mile gives one thousand fifty six paces

Consider likewise whether the Fugitive be in town or not, then give
distance accordingly, and so observing thy distances aright, you cannot
err.
For which way the Fugitive is gone, you must note that the Moon hath a
grand significator for Fugitives, therefore look to the significator of the
Fugitive and to the Moon, and according to the strongest of them judge,
and in the sign and quarter that the strongest is in, say that way the
Fugitive is gone.
