AstroBoost your Future
with the new technology of
Astro-Dynamic
Manifestation
(ADM)
Now you can energize your living space, house,
apartment, office and yourself with the power of
zodiacal and planetary energies
by Karl Hans Welz

Copyright © 2005 by Karl Hans Welz. All graphics, text materials, concepts of
Astro Dynamic Manifestation methods (ADM), and design are sole property of Karl
Hans Welz. All Rights Reserved. No portion of this publication or any ADM meth-
ods may be used without expressed written consent of the author.
Orgone Generator®, Chi Generator®, Orgonite®, Prana Generator® are regis-
tered trademarks owned by Karl Hans Welz.

AstroBoost your Future with the new technology of
Astro-Dynamic Manifestation (ADM)
Now you can energize yourself and your living space
ADM is the Art of Creating your Perfect Environment for Success on all
Levels, which became possible with the invention of the Chi Generator®
by Karl Hans Welz.
What you are about to explore is a technology that is as revolutionary
and innovative as it is built upon ancient and time-honored knowledge.
Astro-Dynamic Manifestation (Astro Optimizing) is brand new technology
with which you can set the environment of astrological influences in your
house, apartment, office, and, of course, around yourself wherever you
are. This technology was the result of the invention of the Chi Generator®
by Karl Hans Welz. 	In fact, he has developed special Chi Generators®
and computer programs for the purpose of setting astrological trends of
your choice in the location of your choice and for yourself: 	The ATGS
3000, or Astro Trend Generating System™ as a top of the line device with
twelve individual Chi Generators®, the Astro Optimizer™ and the Super
Manifestation Program.
With this extraordinary new technology, i.e., by defining which ones of
the powerful optimized energies of the stars will be active within your
house, apartment, office an ultimately yourself, you can set by now the
stage for positive permanent change on all levels (for your environment
and for yourself) that can help you to make your deepest dreams come
true, to take control of your environment, and to help you manifest the
success that you always desired to have.
In fact, as you are reading this material, you are about to gain direct and
first hand experience of the most powerful manifestation method that
exists, and, most importantly, you can test its effectiveness and get the
evidence that you always wanted (see the test under appendix 1)
In fact, this is an easy-to-use method of re-arranging the cosmic energies
that are naturally present in your apartment or house, to strengthen and
to optimize to the max the energies that you desire, and this is a
technology, which is so user friendly that you can be well on the way to
overwhelming success as soon as you have read this material and begin
to use this amazing new technology by following the step by step
instructions that you find here. 	Ideally, you can take an on-line
introduction to the easy and effective methods of ADM.

ADM is as easy as 1-2-3, because your Environment defines the
effectiveness and quality of your actions and destiny, and from now on
out you can have decisive impact upon your environment.
Fact is that a human being is not limited by the surface of his or her skin.
We all live in an environment, we interact with this environment and our
actions are influenced by the environment in which we live.
To get an idea of the importance of the environment in which we are
living, imagine yourself in a room that has old and worn-out furniture in
it, the walls painted dark gray, perhaps even irregularly, with dirty patches
all over. 	This certainly can influence your mood to a degree, which then
can lead to bad decisions and to ineffective or even outright destructive
action. 	Then imagine the nicest possible room. 	As you know by now,
color and the “mood” of a room are not the only things that have impact
upon you and your decisions and destiny.
More powerful still than the arrangement in the room, such as furniture,
color of the walls and lighting, is the energy itself that is active in it. This
energy is defined by the astrological houses (fields of life experience),
signs and planets that surround such a location at all times. In brief, the
astrological make-up, or “horoscope” of the roon, which interacts with
the horoscope of the individual in that room is ultimately contributing to
success or failure of the persons using this room, or space.
Most people who are familiar with astrology know very well how and why
it works: Astrology underlies one basic rule: The astrological energies in
action are defined by the impact of the cosmic environment upon a location
and the person(s) in this location. 	This deep ancient insight made
astrological work possible, because KNOWING ahead the structure of the
cosmic environment (the positions of the planets in the signs) allows the
professional astrologer to predict what the future has to offer: when
success is likely to occur and the times when difficulties or even failure
are indicated in the astrological environment (the zodiac with the planets),
the times when it is good to go ahead with a desired plan of action and
the times when it is more advantageous to diplomatically delay everything.
In fact, this method has been used to calculate and establish RELOCATION
HOROSCOPES. 	These are horoscopes that have the astrological houses
(fields of life experiences) as their basis as they are valid for the place
where you live and act. 	Naturally it is easier to install the desired
astrological factors into the environment wherever you are than to
relocate.
We know that the astrological houses represent fields of life experiences,
and as such the astrological houses are related to the influences of the
Sun signs.

Most importantly, the system of astrological houses surrounds you
wherever you are: 	It makes up the fabric of your environment.
The point in the East is called “ascendant”. It is the beginning (the
astrologer calls it “cusp”) of the first house, and it relates to yourself and
the way you express your personality.
Go 30 degrees towards the North, and you are in your second house,
which relates to your finances, etc.
The influences of the astrological HOUSES
First House: 	Personal and self-related affairs and characteristics, self-
expression in the environment, physical body, general disposition.
Second House: 	Personal possessions and security on the material and
spiritual levels, money.
Third House: 	Relations to those who are close by circumstances,
neighbors, siblings, close kinship, etc., first education, adaptive thinking,
adaptation to close environment, short travel, direct communication.
Fourth House: 	Home, private life, real estate, family, buildings
Fifth House: 	Creativity, love affairs, sports, gambling, children.
Sixth House: 	Services given and received, health, hygiene, analytical
thinking, work.

Seventh House: 	Partnerships at a personal level, marriage, business
partnerships, associates
Eighth House: Shared resources, inheritance, self-sacrifice, stock market.
Ninth House: Higher education, foreign countries, foreign travel, extensive
research, philosophical thinking, religion, publishing.
Tenth House: Social position, profession, ambition, special talent, career,
practicality, pragmatic attitude.
Eleventh House: Team work, group activity, friendships, clubs, objectives,
impermanent attachments, plans, projects
Twelfth House: 	Freedom from restrictions, inspirational thinking,
limitations, isolation, solitude, the unconscious, that which is hidden.
The next important factor in astrology is the planets, which represent
inclination, motivation, and action, or effect.
Functions of the PLANETS
Sun: 	Projection of individuality and self, to express oneself
Moon: 	Letting emotions known – getting attached emotionally – to
respond emotionally
Mercury: Communication skills, mental abilities, movement, commercial
skills
Venus: Relating to others, awareness and creation of harmony and beauty
Mars: 	Movement, activation and initiating
Jupiter: 	Expansion and outreaching, maturing and experiencing in the
widest possible scope
Saturn: 	Control, limitations, restrictions for a purpose and discipline
Uranus: 	Innovation, invention, sudden changes, intuition
Neptune: 	Refinement, 	probing 	below 	the 	surface, 	inspiration,
transcendence
Pluto: 	Elimination and replacement, transformation, regeneration,
minimum effort for maximum effect.

Modifying Powers of the SIGNS
Aries: assertive, with urgency, confidence and prompt action, attitude of
being
Taurus: 	possessive, desire to dominate, with endurance, attitude of
owning
Gemini: 	versatile, variable and adjustable, attitude of thinking
Cancer: 	sensitive, protective, defensive, attitude of feeling
Leo: 	creative, impressive and seeking admiration, attitude of resolving
Virgo: 	analytical, logical and critical, attitude of examining
Libra: 	harmonizing, combining, relating, attitude of balancing
Scorpio: 	concentrating, secretive, with intensity, attitude of desiring
Sagittarius: 	overcoming impediments, reaching out, attitude of seeing
Capricorn: 	avoiding error, prudence, reservedness, attitude of using
Aquarius: 	indifference, unconventionality, impartionality, attitude of
knowing
Pisces: 	receptiveness, impressionable, intuitive, attitude of believing
Astrology and Your Environment
The system of fields of life experience (the astrological houses) is active
in your house or apartment at all times, as it is active in all places where
you are. In other words: the system of astrological houses (fields of life
experience) surrounds you wherever you are, and these houses are
influenced by the signs of the zodiac and planets as they wander through
each house every day. 	How you decide to relate to this environment is
your choice, of course. 	Most people are accepting the influences of
astrological factors as they come towards them, i.e., they accept
everything, good and bad luck as “destiny” without appropriate action on
their own. People who use astrology to know the nature of these influences
ahead of time can adjust to them accordingly. 	A much better choice for
you is to set up and modify these astrological energies so that they produce
the results that you desire and in doing so you can generate successful
trends on every level. 	The Astro-Dynamic Manifestation Technology has
been developed for this purpose.

The structure of the astrological houses (see previous chapter) gives you
also a good explanation why most churches of traditional Christian
religions such as the Orthodox, Catholic, Ethiopian and Coptic Churches
have their altar in the East and the entrance in the West. And, having the
“cross” as their basic design, there are two side altars, one North-East
(spiritual and material possessions) and one South East (Team work,
community). Look at the diagram below and you will realize that there is
a simple explanation for that.
A still more striking use of this astrology-based method are large churches
with their intricate layout and strategic placement of altars and relics.
The “Sagrada Familia” church in Barcelona, Spain, will boast a total of 12
towers when finished.

Now You Can Enhance Your Environment
with Astrological Energies
You can do the same thing in a much more precise and effective manner
by arranging around yourself the energies that you desire to manifest,
and you can begin with this modification of your environment towards
positive permanent change and success in your home and office, and,
when you use the Chi Generator® to boost these cosmic energies. This is
extremely powerful and, above all, it is as easy as 1-2-3!
For instance, you can arrange a desk with computer etc. that is important
for business decisions in such a way that you face the North-Eastern
direction of the cusp (beginning) of the second astrological house, which
rules money.

This is a very simple and easy-to-do arrangement to enhance the potential
for financial success of this business. 	Add Jupiter and Moon energies to
this desk and you have an astrological formula for success in your business!
An alternative is to incorporate the desk into the overall layout of the
office or home (if you have a home office) in such a way that it is positioned
into the second sector of this office, i.e., the energies of the second house.
If neither positioning is possible or if such positioning looks awkward,
the solution is to use the chi Generator® and to transfer second house
energies (plus the planetary and zodiacal energies of your choice, which
are desirable for the specific purpose) to this desk, no matter where in
the house or office it is located, and this is the BIG advantage of the new
technology of Astro-Dynamic Manifestation. More about this later.
Another example: 	A place where you have to be creative, for instance a
desk for writing or composing or for working on innovative projects or a
table in a laboratory where people have to be creative can be set up
facing North-West, i.e., in the direction of the fifth astrological house for
creativity, and moreover you can add other energies with the help of
your Chi Generator®, such as the energies of the ninth house (mental
explorations) and of one or more planets, i.e., influences which you can
change from time to time in order to adjust to the specific projects that
you pursue. 	While such change in planetary influences happens at all
times as a result of the motion of the planets in the sky, using the Chi
Generator® and ideally the Super Manifestation ProgramTM
, you have now
the power to set your own trends by defining specific planetary energies
that match best your expectations. Again, a still more effective way is to

put this table or desk into the North-West sector for creativity and to
establish links to the desired planetary energies right there. 	These two
examples, in a nutshell, give you a good idea of how you can use this
extraordinary technology for your own benefit.
We repeat here: Astrology allows you to map out the influences of planets
and signs at any given time for any given place and person. 	Knowledge
of influences that lie ahead in the future, taking into account also the
place, allows you the TIMING of any planned action by adjusting them to
the optimal cosmic influences.
And, based on that, this exciting new technology of Astro-Dynamic
Manifestation™ allows you to do much more than just predicting future
trends. 	Rather than waiting for the precise time to do something, you
can now optimize the places where you live, sleep and work and adjust
the desired influences to the place and time of your action. 	You can do
this by installing the energetic basis that can help you achieve your
maximum success on all levels and at any time you desire.
We repeat here, as the basis for our further work towards achieving
positive permanent change:
1. We are surrounded by a complex field of cosmic energies at all times.
The basis of this field is the system of the twelve astrological houses of
30 degrees each, which start with the ascendant (rising degree) in the
East. 	Each of these houses relates to a specific area of life experiences.

2. How these areas of life experience are perceived and lived by us in any
point in time is largely dependent on how this house system is influenced
by cosmic energies coming from the twelve astrological signs and the
planets, all of which move through these houses and which continuously
change in their position.
3. 	Knowing the positions of planets and signs in the astrological houses
(fields of life experiences) ahead of time allows the astrologer to give us
a map of our future actions and destiny. 	Such knowledge is invaluable,
since with its help we can know when it is wise to aggressively pursue an
issue or when it is better to diplomatically hold back.
4. 	The field of cosmic energies (the astrological houses) is active in any
place where we are, including our home or office.
5. 	By adapting the layout of your home or office you can improve the
chances of success of yur actions and it will make life more agreeable
overall.
6. 	With technological means, i.e. the Chi Generator®, you can boost the
impact, power and effect of the fields of life experience (astrological
houses) of your choice. 	Adding this extra power to the fields of life
experience (astrological houses) of your choice became possible 	only
with the invention of the Chi Generator®.
7. Most importantly, this extremely powerful and versatile new technology
gives you additional means of taking control of your destiny, which were
near impossible before. 	Now you can do much more than to adapt the
design of your house or office and the layout of your furniture to the
basic structures of the cosmic energies of the astrological houses, with
the first house in the East going counter clockwise house after house.
Now you can adapt the cosmic energies to the layout of your house or
office, no matter how “problematic” such a layout is. 	In other words:
you decide which rooms and locations you use for what purpose and you
transfer the cosmic energies that guarantee the best results to these
locations. 	You can see examples in the following.
8. In addition to this, you can transfer the cosmic energies of your choice
to yourself: using this exciting new technology of the Chi Generator®,
you can now power up any astrological house (area of life experiences)
of your choice with well-selected planetary energies and modalities of
zodiacal signs, thus maximizing the chances of success in this area by
directing these energies to yourself. 	This method compares to growing
plants in a greenhouse that is independent of the exterior climate. 	With
this technology, therefore, you have an “astrological greenhouse” that
provides you with powerful tools to be successful also during the times
when the cosmic factors alone (planets and signs) do not support success.

In fact, with this exciting new technology you are capable of generating
effects of planets and signs that never happen naturally, thus adding to
the arsenal of your cosmic tools.
Practical Applications of ADM
After this brief introduction, you can now proceed step by step, starting
from very easy-to-do and equally effective methods to increasingly
complex applications for very specialized uses. Ideally, you can take our
introductory seminar over the Internet.
What you need:
As a basic equipment, you need an Astro-Optimizer™ kit, which is a
specialty Chi Generator® with its basic accessories: a set of 	specially
tuned transfer diagrams (filters) that represent the basic astrological
energies: 	houses, signs and planets, and transfer couples of orgonite®,
at least one for each room. 	Still better is one Chi Generator® for each
room and another one for yourself.
Later, when you will be familiar with methods of timing and specially
timed lay outs, it will be best to add the Super ManifestationTM program to
your arsenal of tools, and eventually you can begin to use the ATGS 3000,
which is the top of the line tool for the expert who desires maximum
success.
1. 	Make an initial design of the environments of your choice such as
home or office.
2. 	Define the natural layout of the twelve sectors.
3. 	Analyze your living space as is.
4. 	Consider re-arranging into the natural sectors – move furniture etc.
5. 	Instead of re-arranging (4.) you can use our powerful equiment, i.e.,
the Chi Generators® with accessories, and you can project cosmic energies
(astrological houses, signs and planets) wherever you intend to send
them, regardless of the original layout of the house. 	This allows you to
project the energies of a single astrological house into more than one
locations, which is a significant advantage over “traditional” methods,
especially when you are working on the energetic layout of an office or
business.
6. 	You can modify the house energies with planetary energies and
characteristics of signs of the zodiac. 	For optimal use of this exciting
new technology, you can ask the assistance and consultation services of
a person who is tranined in ADM.

Example - Traditional Methods:
1. 	Bedroom – Below is an example of a bedroom, in which the bed is
located in the sectors 2 and 3, sectors which are good for money and
communications. 	The person who sleeps in such a bedroom has an
inclination to be focused in these areas of life experience while asleep.
This can be a great advantage for a person who has no romantic interests
at all and who is intent on focusing in these areas even when asleep.
and, to get prophetic
dreams, 	you 	can
move the center of
the bed into sector 9
Now, to get a bit more
romantic, simply move
the bed into sector 5
Soon you will find out that in most cases the orientation of the room
simply is not suited for an esthetic setup that simlutaneously matches
your requirements for optimal energy. And that’s exactly where you can
use the Astro-Dynamic Manifestation technology to project into the bed

the energies that you desire. In practically all cases, this is a much better
solution than setting the bed awkwardly. In addition to that, you can use
the same Astro-dynamic method to change the energetic setup of your
room and the space where you sleep (astrological houses) without needing
to re-arrange the room every time you want to activate another
astrological house (field of life experience) during your sleep.
Note: 	When you use a transfer diagram for an astrological house, with
planets, etc., activation occurs whenever a person is in that room and
attracts these energies. When there is no person in the room, no transfer
of energy occurs.
Alternative Method using the Chi Generator®
The 	bed 	in 	the 	above 	example 	is 	in 	a 	sector 	that 	is 	suited 	for
communications and money.
To get romantic, instead of moving the bed, you can transfer the energies
of the 5th house to that location. 	You can do this with a structural link
such as a transfer disk that connects to a Chi Generator®, which also
draws the energies of the 5 th house.
For prophetic dreams, simply make a change on the generator and the
energies of the 9th house will be transferred to the bed.
The Chi Generator® is in the center of a special energy structure (orgonite)
that represents the 12 astrological houses, where the position of the
transfer disk defines the energy that transfers to the bed.

This transfer can be in the center of the bed, ideally under the mattress,
as shown in the picture above. 	Alternatively, you can put the transfer in
the center of the bedroom, by which method the room as a whole has the
desired energy or you can put the generator with accessories under the
bed. 	If neither positioning is possible, other locations will do, provided
they are at least 2 feet from a wall. The advantage of this Astro-Dynamic
approach over a rigid house system or the static methods of Feng Shui is
obvious. 	With this Astro-Dynamic approach, you can now change the
basic energy of any location (in the example it was the bed room) without
the need of moving the furniture (or, worse, rearrange the rooms in your
apartment or house) every time you desire a change.
This is even more obvious in the example that follows, where we optimize
Astro-Dynamically an L-shaped office. According to Feng Shui and other
rigid-static teachings, such a layout is supposed to be entirely unsuitable.
In fact, as we have seen in several cases, which we optimized with our
Astro-Dynamic Manifestation methods using the Chi Generator®, such
offices turned out to be significantly more efficient and successful than
others that were rigidly arranged according to the strict rules of Feng
Shui, which were designed originally for the simplistic needs of primitive
civilizations of two to three thousand years ago.
The office:

This type of a small office is “impossible” for the traditional Feng Shui
“masters” with their rigid requirements. 	As an alternative, you can find
a more modern and dynamic Feng Shui Method, which, like the Astro-
Dynamic methods that we describe here, is possible because of the new
technology of the Chi Generator®. 	When you limit yourself to the
“traditional approach” of Feng Shui, even a well-chosen lay out misses
important “corners”.
If laid out the traditional way in the astrological house system, again
very important sectors are missing. 	With the North-South direction as
indicated, the office was missing the very important sectors of
“personality”, finances and communications (houses 1 – 3), which
naturally can led to failure in these areas, which are so important for any
business.
With the help of Astro-Dynamic Manifestation TM methods, the office was
optimized. Of course there are solutions possible that differ from the one
below. 	It all depends on the nature of the enterprise and in part also on
the personal characteristics and desires of the CEO’s of the company.
In our case, the business that we supported became very effective and
successful almost immediately.
The storage area was left to itself
The room with I and X (first and tenth houses), Jupiter and Saturn were
energized to maximize the effectiveness and success of the CEO

The room with V and XI (creativity, team work) to develop new projects
– the office was for web design.
The room X with Moon and Pluto was for PR and advertising.
The room VI for management of the work force.
The room II and VIII for bookkeeping and money in general.
Whenever a room needs to serve another purpose, the appropriate
energies can be induced at once without the need to re-arrange office
furniture or moving into another office. You can modify the energies in a
room in the same manner. For instance creativity and team work in room
V – XI can get planetary energies and energies of signs that are optimal
for a specific project, and they can be changed immediately whenever a
new project is worked on.
With the rooms set up, you can add the desired energies to each of the
individuals who are working in this room:
Leadership for the CEO, creativity for perope who develop new ideas and
precision and diligence for persons who are in positions of bookkeeping
and finances.
Let’s repeat here the advantages of the Astro-Dynamic Manifestation
setup:

(1) 	You can select a room or space in your apartment or office that fits
best your purpose, and then you can transfer any astrological energy
(fields of life experiences = astrological houses, planetary functions and
modalities of the signs) of your choice into this space.
(2) 	You have your main focus (power transfer) on the sectors that you
desire most, while giving less power to the sectors that do not serve your
purpose for the time being (again, TIMING is important).
(3) Furthermore, you can omit sectors that you do not need entirely, and
(4) You can transfer the optimal astrological energies to individuals who
are living or working in this space.
You can proceed as follows:
a) 	Make a design of room, apartment, and office.
b) 	Determine the areas in which you want to activate specific energies
and define the energies. You can ignore sectors (houses) whose influence
you do not want in the area.
Important: When re-arranging sectors, set them up in a way that ensures
an optimal internal flow of energies. Avoid chaotic setups. If you are not
completely sure about the optimal choice of your set up, consult with one
of our professionals.
c) 	Astro-Boost these areas by establishing linkage to them.
(1) 	With direct transfer disks or diagrams.
(2) 	With the help of a computer program. 	You can find instructions in
the manual that comes with the manifestation program.

Conclusion
In this publication, you have found a brief introduction into the methods
of Astro-Dynamic Manifestation, how they can be used, and a few
examples.
This was designed to give you a general idea of the amazing potential of
this extraordinary new technology. 	In the manual that comes with the
equipment, you will find additional instructions.
For persons who decided to study this exciting new technology more
deeply and for persons who want to seize the opportunity of becoming a
professional advisor and distributor, we are offering increasingly more
advanced instruction as on-line training over the internet, life with video-
streaming, where you will be introduced to the many facets and methods
of Astro-Dynamic Manifestation for many locations and purposes. 	The
advantages of these life broadcasts are many.
1. You need not to put aside a whole weekend to travel into a city where
there is a seminar on ADM. 	This means that you save travelling costs,
hotel, etc.
2. 	You can start any time. 	Classes are frequent and you can participate
independent of your location.
3. Like in a weekend seminar, you can interact with your teacher and ask
him or her specific questions.
Of course, from time to time we schedule local seminars as well in major
cities.
Below are a few examples of where you can use the technology of ADM,
and you will find out in our training seminars how you can apply ADM in
these locations.
Restaurants:
Kitchen in a restaurant
Ideal lay out (when designed)
Less than ideal layout that is adapted.
Astro-Optimizing kitchen that is badly laid out.
Computerized timing by adjusting to the time of the day.
Guest room of a restaurant. 	Here you can introduce a massive energy
field that is ideantical everywhere, which is a definite advantage over the
naturally active “wheel of houses”
Wellness center
Hotel

Place for club meetings
Store layout and energetic settings for several types of stores
Personal homes
Manufacturing plants
Large and small offices
Organic farms and greenhouses
In addition, you will learn the basics of how you can use Astro-Dynamics
on yourself: You can carry the Sectors with you – Modify the Houses,
Planets and Signs around yourself, the astrological greenhouse on your
person.
This is a science in itself, since you do no more and no less than defining
the astrological transits that work on you. 	While the sectors remain the
same (all twelve houses, without eliminating any or changing their location
or sequence), you can use the same planet more than one time. In addition
to that, if you time specific influences, the planetary energies that you
send to yourself do not follow movements in the sky (or house system).
In fact, you can have them “jump” from one powerful position (in relation
to your birth chart) into another one. 	The advantage of this method is
that you can eliminate the “waiting periods” for desired “optimal trends”
by generating the optimal astrological influences for the success that
you intend to have. This type work naturally requires the knowledge of a
professional astrologer or, better yet, a person who, besides being a
professional astrologer, is also an expert in Astro-Manifestation
techniques. 	A certification program for this profession is available.
You learn about methods of timing of Astrological Trends with the Super
Manifestation Program
a) 	In a location
b) 	For yourself
Adding Creative Energies to the sectors for increased dynamics
… and much more
For more information about training and distributorship opportunities,
check our web sites or call the representative nearest to you.
www.astroboost.com
www.astrodyn.com

Appendix I:
Action at a Distance
Action at a Distance is a characteristic of life force, and as such it has
been known to humankind since the dawn of its existence. 	In fact, hu-
mans naturally have made extensive use of this potential of life force:
Just think of the many forms of healing at a distance, shamanism, extra
sensory perception and projection, clair voyance and, more recently, ra-
dionics.
In fact, the basis of astrology, i.e., the impact of the planets and zodiacal
signs upon fields of life experience, i.e., upon the layout of the mundane
houses, is result of this characteristic of life force. You can find out more
about this, including the theoretical basis and common functional prin-
ciple of all action at a distance that is based on life force, in the course
“magic of the future” (www.magickcourse.com)
Naturally, in this extra powerful and new technology of Astro Dynamic
Manifestation, this transfer of life force with attached and re-directed
planetary energies and other energies of the universe plays the key role.
In the following, you can experience that which many persons who are
all too entrenched in dogmatic pop-scientific prejudices consider sheer
impossible.
In fact, this experience of life energy transfer can well be the turning
point in the way you are perceiving your surroundings in particular and
the universe in general. 	You can also see this experience as a turning
point in the way you are dealing with life and destiny: Now you can be at
the very threshhold of taking control of relationships, money, profession,
business, energy and life itself.
To feel life force at a distance is extremely easy: Hold the center of your
palm (the hand needs to be relaxed) 2 - 4 inches above the diagram.
ADM

Almost immediately you will feel something: either a gentle warmth (65%
of the persons performing this test), a slight cool breeze (25%), or a
tingling (5%). Some people feel combinations of tingling and warmth or
cool breeze and tingling.
You feel life force, because an identical diagram is next to one of our Chi
Generators in our labortatory. Since the identical diagrams act as struc-
tural links, you can consciously draw life force from this generator. What
you are feeling in this exciting test is raw and unmodified life force, while
in your work with Astro-Dynamic Manifestation, you can send modified
life force into the various areas of your house, office, or to yourself. 	In
fact, this is the principle of the life force technology, that we have men-
tioned above, and which has been used by healers, shamans, priests and
psychics since the dawn of humankind, and it helped them to manifest
the effects that they desired. Our scientific approach combined with the
generator of life force makes this work much easier and much more ef-
fective than can be done by any professional practitioner or group of
practitioners who limit themselves to the more traditional methods. 	In
fact, with this exciting new technology, traditional methods became ob-
solete: 	As obsolete as a good pair of shoes versus a plane ticket when
you want to travel from San Francisco to New York.

Appendix II:
How Astro-Dynamic Manifestation™ works:
The Chi Generator® and its importance in ADM
Life Force is the transfer medium of all action at a distance. 	The Chi
Generator® (this generator of life force is an invention by Karl Hans Welz,
who also developed the methods of ADM) is the ultimate device to gener-
ate massive amounts of life force, which powerful and continuous action
at a distance a possibility for every human being. 	Gone are the days
when such work was the pribilege of just a few people. 	In fact, as a
result of this path breaking invention, action at a distance will never be
the same again and, above all, new and powerful methods such as ADM
and 	Feng Shui Dynamics were developed: 	Methods that were never
thought to be possible in the past.
ADM is action at a distance that uses planetary and zodiacal energies.
ADM is possible, because its pratitioners make use of structural links and
life force, which is the common functional principle, or natural law, that
governs all action at a distance: in methods of remote viewing and
extrasensory perception as well as in operations that are set up to generate
inclination and motivation towards a desired result, or trend energies
towards success. 	The Chi Generator® supplies life force continuously.
No individual practitioner is capable of doing that, nor can he or she
generate the massive amounts of life force that you can generate with
the help of the chi Generator®. With this possiblity of continuous supply
of life force, ADM can be utilized on a permanent setup in your house or
office.
By now the following is well established: There are three basic factors of
any successful action at a distance with the help of stellar (astrological)
energies:
1. The Trend Link (representing the planned effect),
2. The Target-Link (representing the target), and
3. Life Force!
Any operation at a distance, in which the operator neglects any one of
these three basic factors, is doomed to fail, regardless of intent,
traditionalist connection, spiritual training, and what not! That, and only
that, is the reason why some methods do not work, even if the would-be
practitioner followed all instructions meticulously.

The Trend-Link
In Astro-Dynamics Manifestation™, Trend-Links are pre-calculated
astrological diagrams that represent the combined effects of several
planets, zodiacal signs, houses, aspects, elements and other astrological
factors. The main function of such a trend link is that it can help you
establish a connection with a desired effect, or with the desired solution
of a challenge. The trend links represent desired change, or effect. 	The
symbols in the Filter Packs that we offer are typical Trend-Links for Astro-
Dynamic™ Manifestation methods, i.e., they are carefully pre-designed
combinations of astrological elements that represent precise effects.
Many traditional esoteric schools teach the preparation of trend-links
(“utensils”) of a very complex nature requiring much concentration and
elaborate work, especially when the problem to solve is a complicated
one. 	The main purposes of such practices is the generation of thought-
forms that are then attached to the utensil. Naturally, using the Chi
Generator® and/or the Super Manifestation™ program optimizes the effect
of the trend link; it generates the correct thought form (a thought form is
a trend energy that has a life of its own) and supplies it with life force.
Such a life-energy-boosted thought form, of course, is a living abstraction
that follows subtle cybernetics towards achieving a goal, or solution.
Therefore, powering up trends with the Chi Generator® makes the more
traditional methods of involved crafting of complicated trend links
unnecessary and obsolete practices. With the methods of AstroDynamics
Manifestation™, you are far more effective and far more successful than
the “wise who rules the stars” of the olden times!
The Target-Link
The Target-Link (often also called “psychic link”) is an object, image or
symbol that connects with the target of your operation. This target can
be another person or you. It can also be an entity consisting of several
persons such as a business or a sports team. 	Naturally, the target-link
causes a direct flow of life force (with an attached effect) to the target
that it represents. 	The diagram that you find on the test for life force
transfer is such a target-link. 	It connects with a Chi Generator® in our
laboratories. Some practitioners use hair, clothing, photos, etc., of persons
whom they target. The horoscope of a person can be a perfect target link
to that person.

The Importance of Life Force (Chi, prana,
orgone, mana, Od, animal magnetism, etc.)
The characteristics and function of structural links are easy to understand.
For life force, distance is result of structural differences. To explain the
mechanisms that cause life force to join a target with a trend, especially
with structural links that are abstractions, such as the Astro-Dynamic™
filters that you can use, requires a more thorough knowledge of the
characteristics of life force. 	Such understanding is still more important
for an understanding of thought forms (you will learn about that in our
on-line classes), how they develop and why they can continue to activate
a previously set trend in a target (location or person) after the original
Astro-Dynamic™ operation has been discontinued.
Traditional operators and priests knew about this for thousands of years
and they based all their spiritual work on such knowledge. This knowledge
resulted from their practical experience. 	They knew well that the
operations that they powered with life force yielded much better results.
With the invention of the Chi Generator® by Karl Hans Welz and the
introduction of the methods of Astro-Dynamic Manifestation™, this
situation changed dramatically, of course! One of the most important
achievements of this exciting new technology is that by now any person
who is intent on change can do so with ease, without lengthy training,
initiation and preparation. As an operator of an Astro-Dynamics™ device
that is boosted with life force, you can now operate much more effectively
than the traditional “wise who ruled the stars”, and the methods that you
can use are as easy as 1-2-3.
For additional information, especially the specifics of the astrological trend
energies that you can use, you can sign up to one of our on-line classes.
For equipment, computer programs, card packs, etc., see our web sites:
www.astrodyn.com
www.astroboost.com
