Welcome to The 2005 Guide to Casting Black Magic Spells!
.
Dear Sorcerer,
The secrets, stories and techniques found in this book is some of the most sought after
information on the planet. There was a time in history where many people gave their lives
trying to obtain. However, as time went on this information became more readily available.
Today, this information had made it to mass print, in the forms of various books, web sites and
other misc. sources.
Even with the recent exploitation of this information, Magick still remains a mystery to most. The
complex web of information out there leaves much to be desired. With all the various sources of
information on any one given topic, it's nearly impossible to find a solid definitive answer to
almost anything.
The following sections of this book are going to try to change all of that for you. We want to give
you a crystal clear understanding of magick. Such a clear understanding that by the end of
this book, you will be ready to practicing magic and casting effective spells of your own. To do
this, we've split this book into four seperate (but all equally important) parts.
In part one, you will discover all the amazing things about Black Magic and Witchcraft that people
already thought you knew. Get a quick brush up on your Wicca and Witchcraft History, learn
about the God and Goddess Aspect, The Rule of 3, Covens and tons more.
Part two might just change the way you look at the world around you. It's in this section where
you'll find a new meaning to matter, energy and probably life as you know it. Learn about the
different planes and sub planes of existence. You'll uncover the "science" to magic here,
including the 7 Principles.
Part three is where it comes all together. It's in this section where you'll begin to learn to sense
and control energy. You'll understand how and where energy is collected and how to effectively
use it in all your magical practices. This section also includes numerous exercises for sensing
and projecting your own energy and the energy of others. This is the meat and potatoes of
magic, the good stuff.
In part four, you'll be introduced to a variety of techniques and objects that can be used to
increase the power and effectiveness of your spells. Included in this section is the proper use of
magick candles, crystals, herbs and sages as well as moon phases. The combination of these
four things can potentially lead to a Massive Amount of Energy that can be used for any type of
spell, no matter what the intention.
Any of the information learned in this book can be applied with much success in modern times.
Magic is not limited to guys with two foot long white beards or that are named Merlin. As you will
soon find out, with a little practice anyone can do it.

"Stuff People Already Thought You Knew About Black Magic & Witchcraft."
Part one will give the magic beginner a well rounded base about Black Magic and Witchcraft.
For the more experienced magician, this section offers a great review and may even offer some
information you may not have already been aware of.
Some of the ideas covered in this section are as follows:
• What exactly is magic?
• Origins of Magick
• The Burning Times
• The Witches' Hammer
• The Salem Witch Trials
• The Awakening of Witchcraft
• Witchcraft Beliefs
• The Rule of 3
• The God/Goddess Aspect
• Coven and Coven Leadership
• And Lots More...
What exactly is Magic?
Magic or magick is the process of causing change to occur by the application and direction of
energy through the use of your Will. Many people add a "k" to magic to distinguish true magick
from slight-of-hand and stage tricks.
Magick is a broad term given to the ability to make events occur in accordance with one’s true
Will by the application of sufficient energy.
In other words, magick is the direction of energy to a desired goal or purpose. It is a
manipulation of the more subtle forms of energy which science is just beginning to understand.
Magic is a very general term which describes many branches or areas within it's self. For
example, one could compare the broad term of magic to the broad term of medicine. In the
medical field, there are various things someone can specialize in. Whether it be Cardiology,
Pediatrics, or Surgeon just to name a few. Accordingly, there are many very different and

specialized areas within magic, some include Elemental Magic, Sympathetic Magic, Herbalism,
Aromatherapy, Healing, Shamanism and many others. One of these areas which is generally
thought of as the spell casting area of magic is Witchcraft.
Witchcraft
Witchcraft is a branch of magic that also deals with healing, protection, fertility, curses,
hexes and the likes. It is a branch of magic that is centered on techniques to improve the life of
the practitioner and those around them. Those who practice Witchcraft or Wicca also tend to be
of the Pagan religion, but this is not a requirement per' say.
Origins
The true origins of witchcraft are impossible to state. In it generally believe that Witchcraft
had its origins in the beliefs of nature and animism held by primitive man during the Paleolithic
era and earlier. The earliest humans were part of a hunter/gatherer society. To this level of
culture, the things most important things to survival were the ability to find food (either through
hunting or gathering from the land) and the reproduction of the species.
Early Man
It's also thought that early man had very highly developed senses, including what we today would
call the "sixth sense". It's the use of these heightened senses that allowed early man to survive.
During this hunting/gathering stage of society, the weather played a huge role. Good weather
aided in the ability to hunt and gather food so no one went hungry. Bad weather hindered
any of this. Early man also recognized the forces of nature and the spirits which governed them.
This recognition lead to animism, the belief that the forces of nature are spirits, and that there
were also spirits in all of the things within nature. In addition, it was recognized that other events
unrelated to climate, such as hunting and reproduction, were also governed by spirits.
Killing the Image
The first use of Sympathetic Magic work can be seen in this time era as well. If the hunt were
controlled by a spirit, and the animals had spirits, then a successful hunt could be aided by
"hunting" an image of the animal and "killing" the image. Another example is when an
offering was made to the spirit or god of the hunt. Examples of this type of ritual can be observed
in ancient cave paintings (some over 25,000 years old) such as the ones found in the Caves des
Trois Freres at Ariege, France (the figure in the painting is known as the sorcerer). In addition,
clay figures of bison have been found, some of the most famous of which are at Le Tuc
d'Audoubert, Ariege. These figures have been punctured and stabbed repeatedly and thus
"killed" in a symbolic manner. "Killing" or modification of the image can be seen in many areas of
magic, voodoo, black magic and of course Sympathetic magic. Even in more recent times, we
can still also observe use of this type of magic in "primitive" tribes in Africa, Australia and Native
American.
The Druids

In time, mankind changed from a hunter/gatherer society to an agricultural society. Instead of
being nomadic, groups began to settle down, grow food and domesticate animals. With this shift
in culture, the God of the Hunt slowly assumed the role of the God of Death. As mankind
become more advanced, and technology and society flourished, the rituals and beliefs governing
the worship of the God of the Hunt and the likes also became more detailed and defined.
The most common forms of modern Witchcraft center heavy on the history, culture and practices
from Europe, especially the Celtic traditions. The God of the Hunt in Celtic traditions was
Cemunnos: his name is sometimes shortened to Ceme and Heme. The priesthood of the Celts
were the Druids. The druids were the "wise men" and "magicians," and were common in many
European areas. Very little information on the nature of the Druids exists today, because Druidic
tradition was mainly oral.
Early Witchcraft most likely borrowed freely from Druidic tradition. They both share
common holidays: Beltane, Samhain and Winter Soistices. The members of both traditions
served as a the wise ones: healers, diviners, lawyers, judges, farmers, hunters, religions leaders,
etc. Both traditions were nature-based and many of the practices were centered around the
changing of the seasons.
Modern Witchcraft Influences
To brings us to modern Witchcraft we must bring in another major influence: Christianity.
Christianity is a very young religion (2,000 years) and is based on an older religion, Judaism.
Judaism and Christianity borrowed heavily from then-existing religions. For example, the death
and resurrection belief can be seen from many existing cultures of the time, one of those being
the Sumerian/Babylonian myths of Dumuzi/Tamuz. These "myths" predate Christian beliefs by
more than 4,000 years. It has been proven that one of the most effective ways to take over a
culture is to absorb some of the beliefs of the captive culture and to vilify its deities. Christianity is
very adept in this practice.
A great deal of the early history of the Church of Rome was concerned with subjugating the
masses. A very effective way of doing this is to make everything "wrong" and deserving of severe
judgment. Looking at the Old Testament of the Christian Bible, we can see how this is easily
done.
The Burning Times
This period, from the 1200s through the 1700s, is commonly known as the "burning times."
Though Witches were burned only in certain parts of Europe, the persecution they faced was
rampant in both the Old World and the New.
The conversion of the Europeans to Christianity did not happen overnight, as most people might
be led to believe. The first people converted were the upper classes of society, then the
monarchs; the common people were the last ones to be converted. For the the first 1,000 years,
Christianity, for the most part, coexisted with the other "old" religions. Beginning around 1000
A.D., there was a major push to eradicate all of the old religions in Europe and the rest of the
world. This push was probably motivated as much by politics as by religion. One group of people
particularly targeted were the "Witches", the wise women who were knowledgeable in herb craft
and midwifery. The church started a huge campaign to target the Witches and blame any ill
comings on the community on them.

Witches at Fault
If crops died, then it was because of a Witch. If the livestock did not produce, it was
because of a Witch. If children were stillborn or died early, it was because of a Witch. It
didn't take long for these lies, combined with the hellfire and brimstone of the clergy, to give
Witches a very poor reputation. This is thought of as a very interesting time, since not long
before, the "Witches" were respected and even admired; besides, if they actually were guilty of
these acts, then-as members of the village-they, too, would suffer.
These beliefs eventually spread to include all of the rituals of the old religions, and all the festivals
and ceremonies. Very quickly, the major belief in the Church became that if something were not
Christian then is therefore it was Satanic! This practice continued and increased in ferocity for
over 400 years, until the appearance of the major blow against all the old religions: the Bull of
Pope Innocent VIII in 1484.
The BULL
The Bull was a general denunciation of all non-Christian religions, especially those dealing
with magic. The Bull of Pope Innocent VIII was released in December of 1484, and named two
German monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jakob Sprenger, both professors of theology, to be
inquisitors of the heretical. Further, the Bull declared that all obstacles to the performing of their
duties be removed. In short, these two men were given absolute authority over the ferreting out
and judgment of Witches. Most popes since the 1200s had issued some type of Bull against
Witchcraft- and fertility-based religions. With the advent of the printing press in 1452, religious
doctrine could be spread at a much faster rate.
From a control standpoint, one of the quickest ways to subjugate the masses was to declare
sex—except for procreation, and even then only during certain times and without pleasure—to be
sinful. Until that time, this activity was most likely one of the few things that the common person
could enjoy without guilt. After all, a good number of the "pagan" or country festivals dealt with
fertility of some type (fertility of the land, animals, people—and then there were the harvest
festivals).
The Witches' Hammer
The Bull of Pope Innocent VIII led to the creation of one of the most notorious books in history,
The Malleus Maleficarum, or The Witches’ Hammer. This book was written by Heinrich Kramer
and Jakob Sprenger. The book was to become the de facto standard text for hunting Witches,
extracting confessions from them, and then prosecuting them.
The book is divided into three parts:
• The need to understand Witchcraft thoroughly and to accept all evidence against
it, whether or not normally acceptable
• The types of Witchcraft encountered and countermeasures that might be taken
• The very precise rules governing the trials of the Witches.
Moreover, the Bull of Pope Innocent VIII was included as the preface to the book. To give it even
further credibility, Kramer and Sprenger forged the Official Letter of Approbation from the

Theological Faculty of the University of Cologne. In 1898, the forgery was discovered by Joseph
Hansen, the archivist of the University of Cologne.
There were many tests to determine if a person were a Witch:
• Supposedly, a Witch possessed a hidden mark given to her by the Devil when
she signed her name into his Book of Souls. This mark could have been the
infamous "third nipple." Usually, any blemish on the skin was treated as a "devil
mark." It was perfectly acceptable to use knives and hot pokers to try to make the
marks visible, because "the Devil could hide his mark from others to protect
them."
• Another test was the "swimming" test. A Witch would be bound hand to foot and
dumped into a large body of water. If she sank then she was not a Witch, but if
she floated then it was through some outside influence—obviously, the Devil.
Often, the test was performed with the person fully clothed. When she was
thrown into the water, air would be trapped in the clothing, helping to keep her
afloat.
• Another test was to weigh the suspect Witch against the town Bible. If she
weighed less than the Bible then she as a Witch (at the time the town Bibles
were very large and heavy. [This method was given a comedic twist in the movie
Monty Python’s Search for the Holy Grail.]).
• Often, the Lord’s Prayer was used as a test—supposedly, Witches could not utter
it. Of course, this test depended on the illiterate person’s knowing the prayer,
or—if the person were literate—being able to read it in a non-faltering fashion
(there are many degrees of literacy).
Inquisitors were allowed to go to any length to obtain a confession of guilt. Torture was a common
tool used to make the guilty confess and repent their evil ways. Some of the methods used were:
flogging, scourging, thumb and toe screws, racks, iron maidens, red hot pokers, pincers, sleep
deprivation, starvation, water deprivation, water torture, stappado (pulling the arms from their
sockets), large metal boots into which boiling oil or water would be poured, disemboweling, and
pouring water into the stomach until it swelled and burst. After reading this, one must question if
there is any length to which man will not resort to achieve the desired result. While these outright
forms of torture are very rare today, they have been replaced by other means just as effective.
Assuming that the person survived the torture (or multiple tortures) the usual sentence was death
by burning (in Continental Europe) or death by hanging (in England and America).
Black Cat
During these times, it took very little to be labeled a Witch. Disagreeing with the church on
any belief; attempting to block the investigation of the inquisitors; accusation by anyone; owning a
black cat (or any cat during some points of the burning times); owning a cock; saying something
in defense of someone being charged with Witchcraft—all were offenses that could get one
labeled as a Witch.
As the Inquisition slowly ended, another blow to Witchcraft occurred. This was the Witchcraft Act
of James I (James VI of Scotland), passed in England in 1604, which made Witchcraft an offense
punishable by death.
American Witch Prosecution

The Witch craze eventually followed the colonists to America. Until 1692, there were only a
few (around 12) cases of Witchcraft in the colonies, most in Massachusetts. The Witch hysteria
surfaced in the colonies in 1688 with the case of the Goodwin children. The laundress of the
Goodwin home, Goody (Goodwife) Glover, was accused by Martha Goodwin of stealing some
linen. Glover began spouting curses at Martha, who then fell down in a fit, and the other children
followed suit. The fits continued; they would bark, howl, pretend to be deaf, run around on tiptoes
trying to levitate, complain of being pricked with pins, and other such acts. One of the most
infamous American Witch hunters and prosecutors, Cotton Mather, was involved in the case.
The Salem Witch Trails
The most famous of the Witch trials in the American Colonies was the Salem Witch Trials.
This case involved the Reverend Samuel Paris, his wife, his seven-year-old daughter Betty, his
nine-year-old niece Abigail Williams, and two black servants, Tituba and her man John Indian. It
transpired after the Reverend Paris took the position of pastor for Salem. Tituba and John Indian
were from Barbados; did most of the household work, but the story goes that Tituba was lacking
in energy at times and often convinced Betty and Abigail to help. She was easily persuaded to tell
the children stories of Barbados; the stories, often told in the kitchen, became an entertainment
for several of the village children.
The group eventually included Ann Putnam, Mary Walcott, Elizabeth Hubbard, Elizabeth Booth,
Susannah Sheldon, Marry Warren, Sarah Churchill, and Mercy Lewis. Ann Putnam quickly
became leader of the group.
In 1692, Betty Paris began having episodes where she would stare off into space for long
periods. When she came around, she would sputter, cough, and make sounds similar to a
barking dog. Abigail began doing the same things shortly thereafter. The Reverend Paris prayed
over the girls, to no avail, and the town doctor, Dr. Griggs, could not do anything to help them. He
therefore determined that the fits were caused by Witchcraft!
Other symptoms of the fits would include running, screaming, shouting, and throwing things
(including the Bible). Soon, the other girls from the kitchen group joined in. The town elders were
called to pray over the girls, but this did not help either. Clergy from the surrounding areas were
called in. By this point, the girls were so caught up in their lies that they could not get out of them,
so they kept the charade going.
The assembly of elders and other clergy kept asking the girls who had bewitched them.
Eventually, Betty Paris mentioned Tituba’s name. Tituba was arrested and charged with
Witchcraft. Once the first name was given, the other girls quickly agreed and other names were
rapidly produced.
Some of the accused were Sarah Goode, Sarah Osburn, Martha Corey, and Rebecca Nurse. For
every name given, the children were praised. Often, the people named were those whom the
children (or their parents) did not like or or for whom they held a grudge. In short order, 125
people had been arrested in the case and charged with Witchcraft. (To illustrate the prevalence of
the hysteria: early on, John Willard had spoken out against the girls, saying that they were
fabricating the entire story and should be sent to the gallows; he was immediately charged with
Witchcraft!)
The trial for these people was conducted by William Stoughton, Samuel Sewell, John Hathorne,
and Jonathon Corwin; the latter two were also the magistrates for the pre-trial hearings.

During the hysteria, many horrible things happened. On the September 19, 1692, a most unusual
death sentence was executed against Giles Cory. When a man is brought before court, he must
plead innocent or guilty to the charge. If he did not plead, the trial could be prevented from taking
place. To circumvent this, the law provided a terrible punishment, the peine fort et dure, literally "a
severe and harsh punishment."
This punishment involved laying the person on his back and stretching his limbs as far as they
could be stretched. Heavy iron and stone weights were then piled upon his chest until he either
pleaded or was crushed to death. Giles Cory became the only person in American history to
suffer this fate; he was crushed to death after refusing to enter a plea.
The Witch Craze Finally Subsides
The Witch craze started to wind down when very prominent people began to be charged with
Witchcraft. Eventually, people realized what was happening, and in May of 1693, Governor
Phipps ordered the release from jail for all those awaiting trial for Witchcraft. Five years
later, Judge Samuel Sewell stood up in the Old South church and acknowledged his shame and
repentance. Fourteen years later, Ann Putnam confessed her guilt and remorse over sending all
those people to their deaths because of her actions.
By the 1700s, the Witchcraft craze which had swept Europe and America was almost over. In
1717, the last official Witchcraft trial in England took place; in Scotland, however, the trials lasted
until 1727. In 1736, the Witchcraft Act of James I was repealed, but it was replaced by others in
later times.
During the 1800s, many archeological expeditions took place, especially to Egypt. In England and
many parts of Europe, it was the fashionable thing either to undertake or to support an
archeological dig. I believe that this exposure to other cultures was partially responsible for laying
the groundwork for Europe and America to be more open to other, older cultures. In the late
1800s and early 1900s, several works dealing with "folklore" and history were written. Some of
these included The White Goddess by Robert Graves, The Witch-Cult in Western Europe and
God of the Witches by Dr. Margaret Alice Murray. Also during this time one of the most famous
early outspoken Witches, Gerald Gardner, was writing.
Scire
Gerald Gardner was born in England on June 13, 1884. During his early life, he traveled a good
deal and worked at many different jobs. He was very interested in other cultures, and, wherever
he lived, he spent a good deal of time learning about the local populations. In 1925, he obtained a
position as a government inspector of opium establishments in Malaya. While there, he studied
the culture and magick of the Malays, the Saki, and the Borneans. His job as an inspector
allowed him a good deal of free time, during which he wrote his first book, Kris and Other Malay
Weapons. (A kris is a wavy-bladed knife), and he quickly became the world authority on the
subject.
In 1936 he retired and returned to England, where he met several people interested in the occult.
His interest in anthropology, weapons, and magick made an ideal match. His grandfather
Joseph's second wife was rumored to have been a Witch. Further, one of his other ancestors,
Grizell Gairdener, had been burned as a Witch in 1640 in Newborough, Scotland. Obviously, he
must have mentioned these names to the "right people at the right time," because he was soon

initiated into one of the surviving Witchcraft covens near Christchurch a few days after the
beginning of World War II.
You can imagine Gardner's delight in finding a surviving coven in Europe. He initially wanted to
share the knowledge with the world, but was not allowed to do so. This was partly due to the
historical need for secrecy for, and partly because, until 1951, the Witchcraft Act of 1735 was still
in effect. Gardner was permitted to reveal some of the truth in a work of fiction, High
Magick's Aid, which was written under his Witch name, Scire.
In 1952, he purchased an old mill historically associated with Witchcraft. This eventually became
home to his vast collection of weaponry and magickal apparatuses. After the old high priestess of
the coven died, he convinced the other members to let him publish a true and factual book
dealing with Witchcraft. In 1954, Witchcraft Today, the first book dealing with Witchcraft as a
religion and a living system, was published. In 1959, Gardner published a second volume, The
Meaning of Witchcraft. With the success of his books and his museum, he effectively became the
world's first public expert on the subject of Witchcraft and, to a great extent, became the unofficial
leader of European Witchcraft. By the middle of the 1950's, courses in Witchcraft were beginning
to appear at colleges and universities. On February 12, 1964, Gardner died at sea while returning
home from a winter vacation in Lebanon. Despite any personal feelings one may have, whether
good or ill, the contributions of Gerald Gardner to modern Witchcraft must be recognized.
Without his pioneering work, Witchcraft probably would still have resurfaced, but its re-emergence
would have been greatly delayed. It is important to note that, after Gardner "came-out of the
broom closet," many other people rushed to follow him. Alex Sanders came forward and claimed
to have been initiated into a coven by his own grandmother. There was also Leo Martello’s
Sicilian Wicca, which appeared to be very similar to Gardner's works
The Awakening of Witchcraft
In 1964, Raymond Buckland established a coven in New York. His workings, in part, led to the
awakenings of Witchcraft in the United States. Soon after he started his coven (an offshoot of
one of the Gardnerian covens), many other covens began to appear. Naturally, this led to some
friction between groups, and eventually led to a good deal of "my coven is better than your coven"
mentality. There were sharp differences in opinion of how things should be done (such as
initiation, length of learning period, etc). These differences, in part, led to the many denominations
or traditions of Witchcraft and Wicca in existence today.
Both Witchcraft and Wicca are "new" religions. They have their roots in older beliefs, but the
Witchcraft and Wicca of the modern era cannot trace a direct lineage beyond a certain point. This
does not invalidate in any way the religion of Witchcraft or Wicca. As new religions, they spawned
many new traditions, or denominations. A few of these traditions will be discussed briefly a little
later.
The Importance of History
A great deal of time has been spent in the discussion of the possible original beliefs that led to the
development of Witchcraft, as well as on the history of persecution. Many people would ask,
"Why is this important to the modern day casting of black magic spells?" It is important to have
at least a general idea of where the ideas, rituals and techniques came from. A structure
with a weak base will surely fall, nor will it ever rise to it's potential. Create a solid foundation for
yourself and watch it support you all the way to the moon.

Further, at least in the United States, public opinion has the tendency to perform overnight, 180-
degree shifts in thought. Witchcraft, Wicca—Paganism in all its forms—is just beginning to gain a
secure foothold, but this foothold could very easily be lost. The religious right-wing people in the
United States are constantly funding political campaigns to get their people into positions of
power.
Who Will Control the Future
President Ronald Reagan will. Just joking! But it was Reagan who gave an extra incentive to
get the drinking age in the states raised to twenty-one by setting aside a large amount of money
for highway repair in the states. All a state had to do to get the money was to raise the drinking
age to twenty-one. It was inevitable that this incentive influenced the decision on raising the
drinking age throughout the country. If such an incentive can be used to get this idea pushed
through, what other incentives might be used to push through other ideas?
"He who controls the present controls the past. He who controls the past controls the
future."
Look at those who were in power then, and now and you'll have a good idea of what to expect in
the future. Consider this when thinking of religion and beliefs bestowed upon you, and where
your currently belief system came from. Questions are the answer. Question everything,
especially those in authority.
Beliefs
Witchcraft, Wicca and many of the pagan belief systems today share many similar beliefs. Unlike
Christianity, with all its "Thou Shalt Not" rules, pagan systems are usually less rigid. Both
Witchcraft and Wicca are firmly rooted in nature and have a respect for all that is in nature. The
major holidays (Samhain, Winter Solstice, Imbolc, Spring Equinox, Beltane, Midsummer's
Eve, Fall Equinox, Lammas) are seasonal celebrations tied to planting and harvesting. Both
Witchcraft and Wicca recognize a higher creative force manifest in the archetypes of the Goddess
and the God, and possibly through their various aspects. Both recognize the energy of all things
and attempt to work with these energies through what is commonly called magick. Both Witches
and Wiccans believe that one must take responsibility for individual actions, that one should avoid
hurting others if at all possible, because all actions will return in some form. Further, many
Witches and Wiccans believe in some form of reincarnation. These are just a few of the general
ideas that will be discussed.
The Rule of 3
The first major belief is commonly called the "Threefold Law" and is really a restatement of
the idea of Karma. The "law" states that whatever you do will return to you threefold. This does
not mean that if you give someone in need a dollar, you will have three people give you a dollar,
or one person give you three dollars. It means that your act of kindness will result in an act of
kindness being done to you. Some people do not like this idea, because they cannot see, or claim
not to see it in action. I think they just haven't looked and refuse to see what is there before them.
In magick, one of the basic ideas is that "like attracts like" and "as above so below, as below so
above." In the study of Hermetic Philosophy, we will see these ideas in more detail.

Does something return threefold? It’s hard to say. If the ideas of karma were strictly adhered to,
then a threefold return would create an imbalance. Is it really that important how many times
something returns? Or is it more important to know that your actions will have consequences? I
think the latter is the more important idea. Doing something for others should not be done with the
express intention of "getting something in return." You do something for someone else simply
because you can.
"As Long as it Harms None, Do as You Will..."
The second belief states, "As long as it harms none, do as you will; that should be the whole of
the law." Many people take exception to this belief, "As long as it harms none, do as you will."
They claim that by following this precept, one cannot do anything, because every action taken
harms something, perhaps even one’s very existence. This, of course, takes an argument to an
absurd extreme in an attempt to invalidate a belief. Some people would prefer to leave off "An it
harm none," thereby creating the belief "Do as you will; that shall be the whole of the law." Using
that reasoning, Hitler was perfectly justified in torturing and executing over 12,000,000 Jews
during World War II. Or that Jim Jones acted properly in the Guayana tragedy. Or that Jack the
Ripper owed no accountability to his victims. They were, after all, simply following their will were
they not?
"An it harm none, do as you will," is a goal by which to live. The word "harm" seems to be
what troubles people—after all, how does one define harm? Is harm limited to physical harm?
Does it include mental harm? Is a parent who spanks a misbehaving child doing harm? And,
conversely, is a parent who DOES NOT spank a misbehaving child doing harm? If someone hits
you, are you prevented from striking back? There can be no ultimate definition of harm without
creating a system similar to the Islamic laws or the Christian book of Leviticus, wherein an
attempt is made to define every situation that can occur and what actions to take. Such an
attempt would create a hopelessly complex series of laws—and the inevitable exceptions,
exemptions, and loopholes.
Simply put, treat others the way you would like to be treated. No one really wants to be
attacked, demeaned, manipulated, etc. Despite this Magick is still used in this manner everyday.
It should be noted that these are beliefs, not absolute holy writ. They are, however, a set of ideas
by which people should strive to live. In addition, these ideas stress that YOU are responsible for
your own actions. YOU have the ultimate choice of whether you want to do something. True, one
can be coerced or manipulated into performing an action, but the individual nevertheless bears
the ultimate responsibility for his/her actions.
Laws to Live By
When applying any idea by which to live, one must use common sense. For every "law" and
belief, there can be postulated some situation wherein the idea does not work. Does this
invalidate the idea? No. It just means that in that particular situation, the application is not quite so
clear cut and requires some refining.
You must decide for yourself how far you will take the meaning of the word "harm." Generally,
you are pretty safe in your actions if you follow the idea of, "Would I want someone to do this
action to me under normal circumstances?" If someone breaks into my house to kill me, then
they’d better expect to be killed themselves, because the boundaries of individual rights have
been overstepped. However, were I to enter someone else's house to kill them, then I’d better

expect to be killed myself. Remember that the ultimate decision on whether or not to do
something rests with YOU. Taking responsibility for your actions is a major point, whether or not
it is explicitly stated.
Freewill of Another
The third major belief, "Do nothing to interfere with the free will of another," is yet another
restatement of the belief that one should treat people the way one wishes to be treated. However,
this can become an interesting problem. For example, how much can one do for someone else
without interfering with their free will? How much would you want or allow someone else to do for
you without your express permission? Keep these questions in mind.
When the three basic ideas are taken together, we have a concise statement of a set of values by
which we should strive to live. These ideas are not meant to be an absolute statement in every
circumstance, nor should they be applied in the extreme. They are simply guidelines, and—as
with all guidelines—the intent or idea can be taken too far. When applying these criteria, the
individual must take into account the time, location, and circumstances under which the situation
occurs.
Reincarnation
Most Wiccans believe in reincarnation. Reincarnation is the belief that the soul, the Higher
Self, is eternal and manifests in physical form to learn and interact with other souls. The
soul goes through many manifestations as a physical form until it finally achieves a state of
spiritual enlightenment that allows it to move on to the next stage of existence. Some Wiccans
and Witches believe that the final destination of the soul's journey is Summerland. Summerland is
ruled over by the "Horned God of Death," and everyone goes there. It is a place of rest and
peace.
Parts of Nature
Wiccans and many Pagans recognize that we, as human beings, are part of nature and
nature is part of us. Generally speaking, they have a greater respect for the Earth and the
environment in general. Also, much of the work of the Witch is based on the seasonal cycles. The
seasonal cycles and holidays will be discussed in more detail in later lessons.
Wiccans also accept that there is a higher creative force in the universe, which manifests in two
main aspects, one male and one female. These aspects are generally referred to as the God and
the Goddess, and the aspects are either revered and worshipped in their archetypal forms, or
they are viewed in a more granular system as specific deities.
The God Aspect
The God force is generally thought to have two aspects: the Young King and the Old King.
The Young King aspect is the young man just coming to power; he may have children, and he is
just beginning in his reign. Normally, this aspect holds sway over the spring and summer months
of the year. The Old King aspect is the man in his later years, at the end of his power, no longer
quite so strong in body as in earlier times, but stronger of will and possessed of great amounts of

knowledge. The Old King is generally thought to hold sway during the winter months. Often, when
specific deities are used, Pan takes the aspect of the Young King and Cernunnos takes the
aspect of the Old King. Generally, the male aspect of deity is seen as the sun.
The Goddess Aspect
The Goddess force is generally thought to have three aspects: the Maiden, the Mother and
the Crone. The Maiden is the young woman just coming into the true aspects of womanhood;
she is young, beautiful, and sexual but has not yet borne children. The Mother aspect represents
the mature woman; she has borne children, is wiser, and is generally more settled. She is also
the nurturing aspect. The Crone aspect represents the older woman; she has raised her children
and moved on to the life stage wherein she has amassed a great amount of knowledge and
personal power. This aspect is often called upon in matters of justice and legal issues. The
Goddess is normally seen in the phases of the moon, i.e., each phase is a different aspect. Some
deity associations for the Goddess aspects are as follows: Maiden/Diana, Mother/Selene,
Crone/Hecate.
This breakdown seems to be a bit lopsided. I personally work with three aspects of deity: Prince,
Young King, and Old King. The Prince is the male aspect of the Maiden. The Young King is the
male aspect of the Mother. The Old King is the male aspect of the Crone. However, there are as
many aspects of the God or Goddess as an individual needs. In some traditions you may find a
fourth aspect of the Goddess worshipped: the male Warrior aspect or the female Dark aspect.
Elements of Nature
Wiccans also recognize the forces and energy within nature. These forces are generally divided
into four main element energies: Earth, Air, Fire and Water. Some traditions, mainly Eastern, will
use a fifth element, Spirit. Each of these element energies has its own hierarchy and beings that
are native to that element. These energies can be used for a wide variety of magick, and the
native beings may be asked for assistance. In general, each element has its own characteristics.
Normally these basic characteristics and their associations are defined as follows:
Element Direction Attribute Color
Earth North Strength and Foundation
Air East Beginning, and of Thought
Fire South Change, Swiftness
Water West Life, Cleansing
Spirit Center Combing Force of All
There are other systems that use different associations for the elements and directions.
Covens
Witches and Wiccans can work either as solitary practitioners or in a coven. Each type of working
has it benefits and drawbacks. For example, in a coven there are the psychodynamics of a

group, but one generally has more energy with which to work. As a solitary practitioner, one
doesn’t have to be concerned about other people; however, the amount of available energy may
be less.
A coven is a group of people who have agreed to work together. It takes at least two people
to constitute a coven. In older books and in Hollywood it is thought that there must be 13 people
in a coven; that is not so. Some covens believe that there must be a balance between the number
of men and women; others think that the male and female aspects of the individuals themselves
should be balanced.
In the past, covens usually operated in a small area called a covendom, generally three miles; in
modern society, that limit is rarely observed. A coven usually meets in a defined location known
as a covenstead. Members of a coven gather for the high holidays and on predetermined meeting
times, such as the phases of the moon. The holidays are often called Sabbats ,and the phases of
the moon meetings are usually called esbats.
Coven Leadership and Activity
The coven is led by a high priestess and, usually, a high priest. It is important to note that in
Wicca all believers are inherently both priest and priestess—there is no need for an intermediary
to interact with deity. High priest and priestess functions require a great deal of knowledge and
training, and most covens require that their individual members go through some form of training
or be able to demonstrate equivalent knowledge. I say "most," because there is no single or
centralized governing body for covens, Witches, and Wiccans. There is no national register, but
there are many online services for locating covens and magickal people. Once a person is
accepted, there is usually some type of initiation ceremony; the ceremony form differs from coven
to coven, but it is an outward dedication of the individual to the beliefs, to the deity, and to the
other coven members. Some covens require that members be secret about their association, and
some do not. Covens and coven dynamics will be discussed in more detail in a later lesson.
Followers of Wicca are called Wiccans or Witches. However, not all Witches are Wiccan. In part,
this has to do with how people wish to identify themselves. There are many similarities between
Wicca and Witchcraft. Generally, Wiccans follow a more defined ethical code than that of a
follower of the religion of Witchcraft, but this is not always true. The difference lies in how one
wishes to be identified.
The Tarot
The Tarot is a very old divination system. The Tarot is used to see the most likely events
to occur at a future time, provided that nothing changes during that time. Tarot is most
useful for revealing things that might occur over a short time span. The exception to this is when
a major or critical event occurs in a person’s life. The future is like a giant system of rivers; some
of the rivers are major channels of water, and others are minor streams. Some events cannot be
avoided, but other events can be changed or shaped to one’s own will. The Tarot can be useful
for helping to decide the most appropriate course of action and to present the major alternatives
for any given action or event.
The Tarot is a deck of cards divided into two major groups: the Major Arcana and the Minor
Arcana. The Major Arcana consists of 22 cards and represents major forces affecting the person
at the time of the reading or at some point in the reading. The Minor Arcana consists of four suits
of fourteen cards each, and provides clues as to what is happening and why it is happening.

When performing a reading, one can either work exclusively with the Major Arcana or can use
both. Most people tend to use both Major and Minor Arcana.
"Some of the Better Kept Secrets of Magic."
Part two is designed to give the magic student a more in-depth look at the principles and laws
behind magic. Our aim is help the reader fully understand the ways of magic, and why magic
works in the first place. Information in this section is more then likely to give the reader a
realization, or magical awakening. Be warned, once you know - you can never go back.
Some of the ideas covered in this section are as follows:
• Hermetic Philosophy
• Alchemy
• "Physics" of Magic
• The 7 Principles
• Limits to Magic & Energy
• Limitless Energy
• Matter and Energy: Planes of Existence
• Mental Transmutation
• And Lots More...
Hermetic Philosophy
For many years, magick was considered a strange and mystical force that could not be
understood. Today, magick is considered by many to be an art and not a science. Perhaps the
word "science" scares people and makes them think that the "mystery" of magick will be taken
away if scientific principle is applied. And yet, everything in the physical plane operates in
accordance with some "law" or method. For instance, if we throw a ball up in the air it will come
down because of the force of gravity. Magick also follows a series of rules in how it operates.

These rules are referred to by some as Hermetic Philosophy and are part of the Hermetic
Teachings.
Hermetic Philosophy is discussed in detail in "The Kybalion: Hermetic Philosophy" by Three
Initiates. This book was written in 1912 and published initially by the Yogi Publication Society,
Masonic Temple, Chicago IL. The book is still available, but usually must be ordered. A word of
warning: the book was written in the flowery style common at the turn of the century. It can
sometimes be easy to get lost in the language, or to fall prey to the idea that "most of you are not
worthy or ready for this information." Just keep your attention focused on the real message—the
sharing of knowledge.
The roots of Hermetic Philosophy lie within ancient Egypt. The ideas were passed to mankind
through the "Master of Masters," who dwelt in Egypt from the earliest days. His name was
Hermes Trismegistus, the father of Occult Wisdom, the founder of Astrology, and the discoverer
of Alchemy. The title "Trismegistus" means "thrice great." Some believe that the Egyptians deified
Hermes and made him one of their gods, Thoth. Many years later, he was adopted by the Greeks
and known as Hermes, Messenger (or Scribe) of the Gods.
The teachings of Hermes Trismegistus were reserved for a select few who had proven
themselves worthy to seek the knowledge. Those who did learn the knowledge were sworn to
secrecy. In those days, most people were believed to be incapable of learning. "Do not cast
pearls before swine. Give milk to the babes, but give meat to the strong men." Throughout
history, this belief has been held by many organizations. I personally believe that at the time of
Hermes it was true. Humans as a species are still in an early stage of evolution. At any one time
there are always a few humans who are more advanced than others, but for the most part the
majority of the populace is just beginning the journey to find knowledge. However, in the past
8,000 years, mankind as a whole has grown, and there are more people who are beginning to
become ready for this information.
The teachings of Hermetic Philosophy are really part of Hermetic Alchemy. Alchemy is the
mastery of mental forces rather than material elements. It deals with the transmutation of mental
vibrations into others, as opposed to the classic idea of changing lead into gold. The common
belief is really allegory, shadowing the truth in symbols to hide the knowledge from those who are
not yet ready, and to preserve it from those who would destroy it.
The Physics of Magic
This system not only describes how the universe operates, but it also describes the fundamental
principles that govern the operation of magick—it is the "physics" of magick. There are seven
principles that form the core or the "physics" of the system:
o The Principle of Mentalism
o The Principle of Correspondence
o The Principle of Vibration
o The Principle of Polarity
o The Principle of Rhythm
o The Principle of Cause and Effect
o The Principle of Gender

The Principle of Mentalism begins with the belief that everything is mental. "We are but a
thought in the mind of the ALL." The ALL is everything that was, is and will be, and at the same
time it is nothing. At the highest level, there is the underlying creative force of the universe. This
force cannot be described in human terms and cannot be truly understood by humans. The ALL
is everything and everything is part of the ALL. In magick, nothing can occur without first
occurring as a thought; once the thought occurs, the rest follows.
The Principle of Correspondence says that there is always a correspondence between the laws
of the various planes of existence. The phrase, "As above so below; as below so above" is an
application of this principle. Since everything is mental, and everything is part of the ALL, then
everything is interconnected. Therefore, the higher planes of existence have correspondences to
the lower planes of existence. We are microcosms of the universe, and the universe is a
macrocosm within which we are contained. This idea is one of the most influential of all the
principles. This principle allows us to influence the higher planes and shows how the higher
planes influence us.
The Principle of Vibration states that "everything is in constant motion." Everything is constantly
changing, growing, moving, in a state of flux. Let us examine our physical existence for a
moment. All matter is composed of smaller particles, atoms. At one time we thought that the atom
was the smallest unit of matter. Atoms are always in motion. As such, we are constantly in motion
on some level, even when we appear to be at rest. In this century, we have discovered that the
atom is comprised of smaller building blocks called protons, neutrons, and electrons. We have
recently proven that there are even smaller particles such as quarks, leptons, muons, and many
others. Until the turn of the century (1900s), the general thought was that objects were solid and
did not move. Note that the Principle of Vibration, which has been around for thousands of years,
states otherwise. Science is just now catching up with what magick has known for a very long
time. If we look at matter, we see that it is composed of energy. Energy is simply a force moving
at a certain rate of vibration. Take, for instance, light: light that we can see—the visible
spectrum—appears in the colors we know as red, orange, yellow, blue, green, indigo, and violet.
All the colors are actually comprised of the same discrete units of energy (photons), but they
vibrate at different rates. The different rates of vibration cause us to see the different colors. The
Principle of Vibration allows us to see how to transform or transmute energy states.
The Principle of Polarity contains the idea that "everything is dualistic in nature." Another way to
say this is that everything has its opposite. An easy illustration of this is heat and cold. Heat and
cold are both descriptions of temperature (a measure of amount of energy contained by an
object), but where does one draw the line between hot and cold? The human body cannot tell the
difference between extremes of heat and cold. For example, if you have a wart removed with
liquid nitrogen, the spot will first feel cool and then will feel as if someone is burning you with a
match or flame. Heat and cold are merely degrees, differing only in the rate of vibration. We see
polarity all around us and refer to it every day: light and dark, hard and soft, large and small, loud
and quiet, black and white, positive and negative. These are all common manifestations of
polarity. All these pairs are related and differ only by degree. This principle is very important to
the concept of mental transmutation. If we wish to change something from negative to positive,
then we must recognize that negative and positive are the same thing, but vibrating at different
rates. Once this is realized, then all that must be done is to raise the vibrational rate of the
negative. Mental transmutation will be discussed in more detail later in this lesson.
The Principle of Rhythm states that everything moves in cycles. "Everything flows out and in;
everything has tides; all things rise and fall; the pendulum swing manifests in everything; the
measure of the swing to the right is the measure of the swing to the left; rhythm compensates."—
The Kybalion. We cannot cause a principle or law not to work, but it can be neutralized. The
Mental Law of Neutralization allows one to see the swing or rhythm, to locate a point in the swing
at which they wish to be, and then to move themselves to it, thus nullifying the effect of the swing.

The Principle of Cause and Effect states that "there is a cause for every effect." If a ball rolls
down a hill (effect), then there must have been some cause (something moved it) to precipitate
the rolling down the hill. In science, this is known as the Newton's First Law of Motion: "an object
at rest tends to stay at rest unless acted upon by an external force, and an object in motion tends
to remain in motion unless acted upon by an external force." The law of cause and effect applies
to both physical and non-physical manifestations. This principle, in part, incorporates the idea that
YOU are responsible for your actions. YOU have the power to change the course of your life—it
is YOUR ultimate decision to take any action. The power of this principle can be seen in everyday
life, especially in interpersonal relationships. If someone yells at you, what is your honest and
immediate reaction? For most people, it is to respond in kind. Now, it is up to you to decide if you
wish to take that action (yelling back). If a person smiles at you what is your initial reaction?
Usually it is to smile back. These are simple examples of this principle at work. For everything
that happens, something had to cause that event to occur.
The Principle of Gender states that there is gender in everything. On the physical plane, gender
manifests as sex. On the higher planes, gender refers to the duality, the polarity of active and
passive forces, the Yin and the Yang, the Male and the Female. Every individual contains both
aspects of male and female, Yin and Yang. Sexually, all humans start out as females; it is not
until the third week of gestation that the fetus begins to take on either male or female aspects.
This illustrates that both aspects of Being are present within everyone. The principle of Gender
works in the direction of generation, regeneration, and creation. Without this principle there can
be no creation.
Mental Transmutation
Hopefully, by this point you are already beginning to see application of these principles on many
levels. The highest application of these ideas is in Mental Transmutation. Transmutation is the
process of changing one thing into another. Mental Transmutation is the art of changing and
transforming mental states, forms, and conditions into others. The key to mental
transmutation is that everything is mental. Since everything is mental, we can effect change by
applying mental force—if our force (Will and energy) is strong enough, we can effect the change
we want to make. Mental transmutation takes place on the mental plane, thereby causing change
to occur on the physical plane (remember the Principle of Correspondence). Only the most
advanced masters can manifest large-scale change, in the grossest sense, on the physical plane.
Even then, there are limits to what can be accomplished in physical incarnations.
Limits to Magic and Energy
Before going further, I wish to switch tracks for a moment and discuss a little of what is and is not
possible. Many people like to spout the idea that "everything is possible." Well, everything is
possible, depending on your level of ability and spiritual maturity. When we develop to the point
where we rejoin the ALL or the TAO or the "universe," then all things will be possible. However,
we are not yet there. We operate on the physical plane, the lower astral planes, and the lower
mental planes.
Everything is energy. To transform energy, we must be able to "grasp" and shape the energy.
The physical body, much like a piece of copper wire, can handle only a limited amount of
energy. If you have ever looked inside a light bulb while it is off, you will see two posts with a
small piece of coiled wire inside. When electricity is applied, the small coil of metal begins to

glow, because it is resisting the flow of energy. If too much energy is applied, then the coil will
become too hot and explode or melt.
To some degree, the same process occurs within people, because the physical body is
subject to physical laws. One of these is that there is a limit to what can be contained or
channeled. Another way to see this is to look at the human body as the small end of the funnel.
What happens when you attempt to pour a gallon of water into a funnel? Well, if you pour too
much, it overflows—the small end cannot handle the physical volume of water.
Limitless Energy
At our stage of development, mankind could easily destroy the fabric of creation if we
were able to wield limitless energy. Hard to believe?
As an experiment, picture an apple in as much detail as you can. See the round shape, the stem,
a few leaves on the stem; see the shading on the apple, its texture, the shading on the stem, and
the textures of the stem; see the veins in the leaves. Now, see the entire apple in all its detail.
Hold the image in your mind. Think of nothing but the apple. Hold the image in your mind for five
seconds. Try it for 10 seconds. Hold it for a minute. Ten minutes. Hold the image for an hour, five
hours, a whole day. Continue to hold the image until you can no longer hold it.
Be honest: could you see the apple? How long did you manage to hold the image before it
changed or before other thoughts intruded on what you were seeing? If you cannot maintain
perfect control of your mind for even a limited time period, then what would happen if you could
create anything in your mind? Imagine your worst nightmare being made and manifested. Now,
image the worst nightmares of an entire planet being made manifest on the physical plane.
Exercising Your Energy
Just because we do not have access or control over limitless energy does not mean that we
cannot effect change on a smaller, more personal scale. Our ability to effect change is limited to
the amount of energy we can manipulate and the strength of our wills. There is an upper limit to
what the human body can handle, but very few people operate anywhere near that level. The
ability to manipulate energy is tied to the energy channels and system of the body (the
chakras are part of this system and will be discussed in a later lesson).
These channels are like muscles and must be "exercised" in order to increase the amount
of energy they can handle. The more an individual works with energy, the more energy he/she
will be able to manipulate it, and the longer he/she will be able to manipulate it without tiring. With
enough dedication and exercise, you can reach your physical limitation, but it does not happen
overnight, just as lifting weights for a week will not allow you to lift a car over your head. Magic
takes practice and work. In short, you have to train for it.
Matter and Energy: Planes of Existence
So far, we have spoken only with regard to the physical planes. To some extent, the limitations
are lessened on the astral and mental planes, but there are still limitations. This is due partly to
the spiritual maturity level and partly to the chakra systems. (The chakras exist on more than one
plane.)

Let us look at how Hermetic Philosophy perceives the "planes of existence" (sometimes also
referred to as "realms of existence".) This term is a bit misleading, since all planes simultaneously
exist and overlap. To some extent, it is like a building with three major sections. Each section
occupies multiple floors. Again, this is a separation that exists only in the human mind for the
sake of clarity. The planes are really groupings of degree (or vibration) within the manifestation of
"like." Each of the major planes is divided into seven minor or sub planes.
The major planes of existence are:
The Physical Plane The Physical Plane is comprised of matter and is
the realm of physical existence.
The Mental Plane The Mental Plane is the real of thought and
consciousness.
The Spiritual Plane The Spiritual Plane is the realm of deity and The
ALL (explained in further detail on page 5.)
The 7 Physical Planes
The 7 sub-planes of the Physical Plane:
Plane of Matter (A)
The Plane of Matter (A) is comprised of the
grossest forms of matter such as solids,
liquids and gasses.
Plane of Matter (B)
The Plane of Matter (B) is composed of the
more subtle forms of matter such as the
radiant matter (radium, etc).
Plane of Matter (C) The Plane of Matter (C) is composed of the
finest forms of physical matter.
Plane of Ethereal
Substance
The Plane of Ethereal Substance is
composed of the "ether," the unifying element
of the universe. The ether connects the
grosser forms of matter and energy.
The Plane of Energy (A) is composed of the
gross forms of energy such as light, sound,
heat, electricity, gravitation, cohesive force,
etc.
Plane of Energy (B) The Plane of Energy (B) is comprised of the
more complex energy forms such as plasmas.
Plane of Energy (C)
The Plane of Energy (C) is comprised of the
energy of the "gods." This form of energy is
accessible only to those operating exclusively
on the spiritual planes. It is the stuff of
creation. And it, too, is comprised of seven
sub-planes.

The 7 Mental Planes
The Mental Plane comprises the forms of living things, or life as we understand it, and is divided
into seven minor planes:
The Plane of the Mineral Mind
The Plane of The Mineral Mind
comprises the states of units or entities
that animate the forms of minerals.
The Plane of the Elemental Mind
(A)
The Plane of The Elemental Mind (A) is
the realm of the lower level elemental
forces of nature.
The Plane of the Plant Mind
The Plane of The Plant Mind is the realm
of the plant kingdom and plant
consciousness.
The Plane of the Elemental Mind
(B)
The Plane of The Elemental Mind (B) is
comprised of the higher elemental forces
or entities such as gnomes, sylphs,
salamanders, and undines—those who
control the lower level elementals.
The Plane of the Animal Mind
The Plane of The Animal Mind is
comprised of the animal level
consciousness.
The Plane of the Elemental Mind
(C)
The Plane of The Elemental Mind (C) is
the realm of the more evolved elemental
entities.
The Plane of the Human Mind
The Plane of The Human Mind is
comprised of the manifestations of life
and existence.
Understanding the Spiritual Plane
The following paragraph is paraphrased from The Kybalion:
The Spiritual Plane is composed of those entities that exist in spiritual form (non-corporeal). This
is the plane of the ascended beings and of deity. This is the realm of angels and guides,
archangels, demigods, and other such entities. This plane is so far removed from ours that it is
difficult to say much about the seven sub-planes. Until we reach a further stage of
development, it is useless even to attempt to speculate about a plane populated by beings
who are at a level of existence as far advanced over ours as we are over that of the
common amoeba.
We must remember that this information was imparted a very long time ago and has been
handed down for centuries. The book itself was put together at the beginning of the 20th century.
Since that time, I believe that there have been great strides made in understanding a little more of
"that which is not knowable." I would, therefore, suggest the following (more modern) division of
the Plane of Spirit:

The 7 Spirit Planes
Plane of Spirit Guides (A) The Spiritual Plane is a plane of development,
just as are the Physical and Mental Planes. The
eventual goal is a return to the ALL, a return to
TAO, to become "one" with everything. Before
we can achieve that state, we must first
experience "everything." Part of the experience
must include helping and guiding others along
the spiritual path. This is something done at all
levels of existence, but at some point in our
spiritual evolution we transcend the need for
physical form and exist as pure spirit or
essence. Accordingly, I would propose that the
first spiritual plane is that of the spirit guide. The
spirit guides are those entities that have just
begun their existence in the spiritual form. They
are able to help and protect physical beings and
impart some of their knowledge. This existence
allows them to understand better how the
spiritual level interacts with the physical.
Plane of Guardian Spirits
and Angels: Cherubim (A)
The second level of the spiritual plane would be
inhabited by the guardian spirits and/or the
lesser angels, the Cherubim. These entities are
more advanced than the spirit guide and are
allowed more interaction with the physical.
Plane of Spirit Guides (B) The third plane of spiritual existence would be
reserved for the second level spirit guides. This
level of guide has become used to the spiritual
level, has integrated more information, and
normally interacts with those on the physical
plane who are closer to transcending physical
existence.
Plane of Guardian Spirits
and Angels: Seraphim (B)
The fourth plane would be the home of the
second level guardian spirit and/or Seraphim.
These enlightened souls are able to interact on
the physical plane to a higher degree than the
others and usually are more concerned with
those just crossing over or those who have just
crossed over to spiritual existence (even
spiritual entities will need help from time to
time).
Plane of Archangels The fifth level of spiritual existence would be the
level of archangels, those entities who are just
about to rejoin with the ALL or TAO.
Plane of Demigods The sixth level of spiritual existence is that of the
demigod, those who are on the verge of
transcending spiritual individuality and rejoining
with the ALL or the TAO.
TAO, The ALL The last level of spiritual existence is the TAO or

the ALL.a
Since many people do have some background in Christianity or Catholicism, the terms Cherubim
and Seraphim are used as a level reference only. Whether there are actually entities classified as
this is better left to other discussions. No one is positive about the fifth and sixth levels, for
they very well could be reversed. However, most do believe that, in time, as we are more ready
to understand, these levels will be revealed in more detail.
Mental Transmutation Cont.
At this point, we move into a discussion of the area of Mental Transmutation. The idea of
transmutation is to change one form of energy into another (after all, "everything is energy").
The theory of mental transmutation is simple: use a higher principle to overcome the
effects of a lower principle. While the idea is simple, it could not (and cannot) be fully explored
until the seven principles are understood.
"To change your mood or mental state, change your vibration."—The Kybalion
Everything is mental. Everything is energy. Everything vibrates. YOU are the master of your own
mood and mental state. Another person may do something that angers you, but they do NOT
force you to lose your temper—YOU lose control of your temper because of YOUR reaction to
something they said or did. The baser negative emotions (hate, envy, jealousy) are all states of
low-vibrating energy. To change your mood, raise your mental vibrational level.
"To destroy an undesirable rate of mental vibration, put into operation the Principle of
Polarity and concentrate upon the opposite pole to that which you desire to suppress. Kill
out the undesirable by changing its polarity."—The Kybalion
Polarity is in everything; everything has its opposite. Love and hate are the same thing vibrating
at different ends of the spectrum. Happiness and sorrow are the same, but vibrating at different
rates. To counter something, use its opposite. From chemistry, we know that if we mix bases and
acids in equal strengths, they will cancel each other out to form a neutral substance. To see this
in everyday life, try being very positive and cheerful around someone who is in a bad mood. The
bad mood cannot survive for long when confronted by a positive mood. It is also possible use a
bad mood to cancel a positive mood. Watch the people around you. Someone will come into the
office in a bad mood and snap at someone; later on, that person will be short with another, etc.
The chain goes on and on. Polarity and vibration are key elements to mental transmutation.
"Rhythm may be neutralized by the application of the Art of Polarization."—The Kybalion
Everything is in constant motion, and there is a rhythm to the motion. The swing of the pendulum
to the left is equal to the swing of the pendulum to the right. To avoid being caught in an
undesirable swing, we use polarity or vibration to move ourselves above or below the oncoming
swing, thereby moving ourselves outside of the effect. The higher Hermetic Master will polarize or
move him/herself to the very positive side of the "I AM" pole and vibrate to a rate at which the
backwards swing of the pendulum will not affect him/her. This is done to some extent by all who
understand this principle. They simply refuse to be swayed by the reverse swing.

"Nothing escapes the Principle of Cause and Effect, but there are many planes of
Causation and one may use the laws of a higher to overcome the laws of a lower."—The
Kybalion
For every cause there is an effect, and for every effect there is a cause. For every event there
must be some initial action, and there is some reaction for every event. For an idea to manifest on
the physical plane, it must first exist as thought; then it must take form on the mental plane and
eventually be made manifest back on the physical plane. There are many planes on which we
operate. The principle of causation exists on all planes. Just as one plane may influence another,
causation on one plane may influence other planes.
"True Hermetic Transmutation is a Mental Art."—The Kybalion
Everything is mental; we are but a thought in the mind of the ALL. Influencing the physical and
mental planes are brought about by control of your mental power and abilities in conformity of the
laws of existence.
"The ALL is MIND. The Universe is Mental."—The Kybalion
"Energy Manipulation: Finally, the Essence of Magick in All it's Glory."
Part three is where it all comes together. Here you'll learn the meat and potatoes of magick. This
is where you'll uncover how to sense and control energy, the building blocks of everything. The
reader will be introduced to a variety of exercises designed to help develop the sensation and
sight of energy. Once these techniques have been mastered, other exercising pertaining to
energy manipulation, collection and projection will be discussed in detail.
Some of the ideas covered in this section are as follows:
• Sources of Energy
• Sensing Energy (Touch), Exercises 1-7
• Sensing Energy (Sight), Exercises 1-4
• Projecting Energy, Exercises 1-4
• Reabsorbing Energy
• Forming Energy

• Sending Energy to Others
• Passing Energy, Exercises 1-3
• Raising Power, Exercises 1-3
• And Lots More...
Sources of Energy
We live in a sea of energy. Everything around us is energy; we are energy. Matter is energy in a
very tight, very specific matrix or form. Energy bombards us in various forms every day: light,
sound, heat, radiation, gravity, ultraviolet light, microwaves, radio waves, television signals, and
many, many others. All these forms of energy both include and make up the more subtle energy
that we use in magick. This more subtle energy form has been called the "ether," or "aether," by
some. Regardless of the name, it is a form of energy that interacts with, and possibly comprises,
all other energy types.
The energy that is used in magick comes from six basic sources.
1. The energy within ourselves
2. The environment around us such as plants, rocks, nature, etc.
3. Energy willingly given by others and/or energy created through
various forms of personal empowerment
4. Energy from other planes of existence: astral, mental, elemental,
spiritual
5. Energy from higher entities and divine sources.
6. **From the pain/suffering/death of living beings.
** Use of this type of energy gathering is rare, yet powerful and usually comes with grave
consequences. This type of energy is usually reserved for the darker, and more black
aspects of magic.
Personal/Internal Energy
The physical body is a storehouse and channel for energy. The center of our energy system is
our chakras. The chakras are energy transfer points within the body, and are responsible
for regulating the energy field of the body. There are seven major chakras located along the
spine, 21 minor chakras (two are located in the palms of the hand), and there are over 101 other
energy points located across the body. The chakras help to regulate the flow of energy within the
body and to form the auric bodies. The auric bodies are basically shells of energy which surround
the body. This energy field is known as the aura; some people like to call it the Human Energy
Field. More on this later.

The body stores energy for normal and magickal use. In addition, the body can channel energy
from outside sources to replenish itself and for use in magick. People tend to have three types of
internal energy:
o Life essence
o Normal energy
o Magickal energy
The life essence is the core of our energy system. This energy is rarely tapped.
The normal energy of the body is that energy that is used in everyday life. It is the easiest energy
to replace, and is replenished through eating, resting, exercise, and other activities designed to
restore/maintain the body/mind.
Every individual possesses magickal energy to some extent. As with normal energy, magickal
energy can be developed and its capacity increased. Magickal energy is the energy gathered
from the energy that permeates all things. Magickal energy can be used to increase normal
energy. Magickal energy can also be replaced through rest, as well as through several exercises
that will be discussed throughout this course of study.
A Warning on Energy
When working magick, both magickal energy and normal energy are used. Normal energy is used
to fuel the body and to provide a vehicle for the movement of magickal energy. When the stored
magickal energy is depleted, normal energy can be used in its place. As normal energy is used
up (whether by magickal or non-magickal activity), the body becomes tired. If the body becomes
too tired, illness can set in. If the normal energy is completely expended, the life essence can be
drawn upon.
This is extremely dangerous, because if the level of the life essence drops too low then
physical death can occur.
Consider the previous sentence to be a major warning. When working magick, the individual
must be careful to observe his/her energy level. As the energy level decreases, the amount of
physical and magickal expenditures also need to decrease. If the energy level drops too low, then
illness and/or death can occur. This is neither fiction nor a Hollywood drama—it can, has and will
happen if you are not careful.
Sources of Energy Cont.
All living things and all items in creation contain energy. The ground, sky, rocks, crystals,
trees, plants, animals, elemental forces, etc., all contain energy. The combined energy field of all
things in creation can be tapped when working with magick. This combined energy field is often
referred to as the ether.
All living beings have the potential to be able consciously to transfer energy to other
people. This is most often seen through prayer and good wishes. Magickal people can send
energy to other people. This type of energy forms the third type of energy listed. It is energy that
is freely given.

The physical plane is not the only plane of existence. As seen in Lesson Two, there are three
major planes of Being—physical, mental, and spiritual. These three planes can be further divided.
Within the physical plane there are the elemental planes: Earth, Air, Fire, Water, Spirit/Ether.
Within the mental plane there are other planes such as the astral plane. Energy can be drawn
from these planes or forces. This energy is the fourth type of energy.
Within the spiritual planes there reside the higher beings. These are beings that do not exist
in physical form unless they desire to manifest in that way.) There are many different entities on
the spiritual level: elemental rulers, spirit guides, teachers, angels, demons, demigods, deities,
etc. These entities can be petitioned for assistance and energy, though this method
requires some type of compensation.
To use energy, you must first learn to sense the energy and then to control those senses.
Sensing The Dead Ability
The human body is a fairly amazing system capable of many things, including sensing the finer
energies around us. Sensing magickal energy is ordinarily accomplished through a specialized
form of the sense of touch. However, some people use other senses, such as sight and hearing,
to locate magickal energies. In fact, every sense can detect magickal energies. Since the use of
touch is the most common, that is where we will start.
Exercise 1 (Touch)
Energy Field Associated With Palm Chakras
This exercise teaches you to feel energy fields. The body has special energy transfer centers
called chakras. There are seven major chakras located along the spine, 21 minor chakras (two
are located in the palms of the hand), and there are over 101 other energy points located across
the body. The chakras help to regulate the flow of energy within the body and to form the auric
bodies. The auric bodies are basically shells of energy which surround the body.
1. Place the palms of your hands together in front of you.
2. Move your hands apart until they are about one foot away from each other.
3. Slowly move your hands together until they touch.
4. Move your hands apart until they are about six inches from each other.
5. Slowly move your hands together until they touch.
6. Move your hands apart until they are about three inches from each other.
7. Slowly move your hands together until there is about one inch of space between
them.
8. Repeat the last two steps several times, creating a "bouncing" motion with your
hands.

9. Take a few moments to write down any perceptions or feelings you experienced.
Many people report a tingling sensation in their palms; they may also feel warmth,
coolness, pressure, etc. When I do this exercise, I feel a pressure similar to that observed when
like poles of a magnet are brought together. If you have never seen this phenomenon, get either
two bar magnets or two disk magnets and experiment with placing them together. Different poles
will be attracted to each other, and like poles will be repelled by each other. If you did not feel
anything when doing this exercise, don’t worry.
Some people take a bit longer to get used to sensing the energy fields. Try repeating the
exercise, but begin by rubbing your hands together briskly—as if they are cold and you are trying
to warm them—for about thirty seconds before beginning.
Exercise 2 (Touch)
Energy Associated With The Auric Field
This exercise will give you another method for sensing the human energy fields. Pay special
attention to the feelings and sensations in your fingertips.
1. Place your hands together in front of you.
2. Move your hands apart until there is about half an inch separating them.
3. Pretend that there is an imaginary bar going through the centers of your palms,
so that your hands will rotate only backward and forward.
4. Keep the left hand still and slowly rotate the right hand forward, then slowly rotate
the right hand backward.
5. Repeat step 4 several times.
The energy field that surrounds the body is called the aura. The aura has many layers and
shapes. The auric layer closest to the body tends to fit like a second skin. When you move your
hands back and forth, the energy fields surrounding the hands bump into each other. People
often feel either tingling in the fingertips or little ridges of pressure as the fingertips pass each
other.
You should practice these exercises over several weeks to help yourself become
acclimated to feeling the energy fields. The more you do these exercises, the more acute your
senses will become. Eventually, you will be able to distinguish between subtle energy patterns,
recognize color by feel, and much more. Being able to sense the energy fields and subtle
patterns within them will be of extreme use if you do work with the various forms of magickal
healing (also another topic covered in a later lesson).
Exercise 3 (Touch)
Energies Associated With Your Auric Field

1. Perform Exercise 1 (Touch).
2. Hold your right hand about three inches above your left arm.
3. Slowly move your right hand nearer to your arm until you begin to sense the
energy field.
4. Slowly move your hand up and down your arm, noting any sensations that you
experience.
Ordinarily, the energy field is fairly smooth around the body. Unless you are suffering from
some ailment or you have had some injury, the field will be fairly constant. Do not be surprised if
you can feel places where bones have been broken, etc. All ailments will leave energy residue in
the auric field, even long after the event has occurred and the injury has healed. The next time
you hit your arm, try feeling the energy field over the spot and around it, and notice the
differences in the energy field.
Exercise 4 (Touch)
Energy Associated With Other Living Objects
Exercise 4 helps you to begin sensing the energy fields of other objects. Eventually, you will be
able to sense the energy in dirt, ordinary rocks, etc. Everything has an energy field. You will find
that living things have stronger energy fields than inanimate objects, the exception being crystals.
In this exercise you will need a plant (either a potted plant, an outdoor plant or a tree, etc.) If you
have a quartz or other crystal, that will be useful.
1. Perform Exercise 1 (Touch).
2. Place your hands about one foot from the plant, tree, bush, etc.
3. Slowly move your hands closer to the plant until you begin to feel its energy field.
4. Once you begin to feel the energy field, slowly explore the plant.
You will generally find there are stronger fields around flowers and buds, the tips of leaves, and
around the root structure.
Repeat this exercise using a crystal. (See Part IV for a Crystal Guide and Usage)
Exercise 5 (Touch)
Sensing The Energy Fields Of Others
So far, these exercises have been centered around living objects and yourself. This next
experiment requires a second person. Remember, you must have permission to "feel" another
person.

1. Perform Exercise 1 (Touch).
2. Put your hand about three inches above the arm of the other person.
3. Slowly move your hand closer until you sense the other person’s energy field.
With different people, this occurs at different distances—anywhere from six
inches to two or three feet, depending on the person.
The following experiments will generally produce results similar to Exercise 1.
Exercise 6 (Touch)
Sensing The Energy Field Around Electrical Appliances
This exercise will get you accustomed to feeling strong fields around inanimate objects. You will
need a computer monitor, or a TV, or a radio speaker, or a microwave, etc.
1. Perform Exercise 1 (Touch).
2. Put your hand(s) about six inches from the object you are sensing.
3. Slowly move your hand(s) closer to the object until you touch the item.
4. Move your hand slowly away from the item and toward it until you sense the field.
Electrical appliances will produce a stronger field than other inanimate objects. It may take some
practice to begin sensing these fields, but eventually you will be successful.
Exercise 7 (Touch)
Sensing The Energy Fields Around Inanimate Objects
This last exercise in touch moves to working with inanimate objects. Any non-living, non-electrical
object will do.
1. Perform Exercise 6 (Touch), but use an inanimate object instead.
The energy fields of inanimate objects are more subtle than those of other items. It may take a
good deal of practice of feel these fields, but given time and practice, you will be able to sense
them. In addition, when working with objects and other people, do not be surprised if you pick up
impressions of things that have happened to the people or the other objects. Some people have
strong psychometric skill. Psychometry is a branch of magick devoted to picking up
impressions from objects and is a subset of channeling.
Feeling the energy fields around objects can give you a great deal of valuable information.
However, touch is not the only sense we can use. The second most common sense used in
magickal workings is Sight.

The next series of exercises will help you train yourself to see energy fields.
Sensing Energy by Sight
A heightened form of ordinary eyesight, Sight is that which lets us see the magickal energies.
Sight may take longer to develop in some people than others. Also, Sight may manifest differently
in different people. Some people may see brilliant and vibrant colors; others may see things
in shades of gray; and some may see energy patterns. The more you use your Sight, the
stronger and more accurate it will become. When beginning to train your Sight, it is not
uncommon to see "glows" or "outlines" in a single color, usually white. With time and practice,
you will be able to distinguish details and color and even more.
Exercise 1 (Sight)
The Hands, Part 1
For this exercise you will need some white poster board or a sheet of white paper. You will also
need a sheet of black construction paper or poster board. The sheet must be large enough so
that your hand fits on it. In addition, you will need to perform this exercise in a dim room.
1. Relax.
2. Perform Exercise 1 (Touch) several times.
3. Hold your common-use hand (if you’re right-handed, use the right hand) in front
of the white paper.
4. Let the focus of your eyes relax and gaze at your hand.
Given some time and practice, you will begin to see the auric field around your own hand.
Try this experiment using both the white and black paper. Beginners sometimes have an easier
time with a dark background than a light background, but this is not always true. During this
experiment do not strain or try to force the experience—just let it happen.
The Hands, Part 2
1. Relax.
2. Perform Exercise 1 (Touch) several times.
3. Hold your hand in front of the white paper with your index finger extended.
4. Feel a beam of white light jump from your index finger and strike the paper.
5. Let the focus of your eyes relax as you gaze at your hand and the paper.
Once you are able to see the energy field around your hand, try to expand your focus to include
larger objects. Look at people and see what you "See." Try looking at plants and trees. Also,

watch people who are really enthusiastic about a subject they are discussing. People who are
speaking on a subject they feel strongly about will generally have a very highly energized auric
field.
My first experience with Sight was while listening to a person speaking to a club to which I
belonged when I was in college. The lady was very energetic, very motivated. She was standing
in front of one of the old-style blackboards, and I was completely absorbed in the topic. It was
then that I looked past her and saw a bright outline surrounding her. About to point this out to a
friend who was sitting next to me, I saw that he was noticing it also. Actually, about half the
audience "saw" her energy field. Further exercises with the Sight are centered around other
people and objects. You just need to relax, let the focus of your eyes slip a little, and "look."
Exercise 2 (Sight)
Plants
You will need a house plant for this next exercise.
1. Place the plant in front of the white paper and dim the lights a little.
2. Sit and relax, and let your focus slowly fade
3. Look at the plant, then sort of through it and past it.
With practice, you should be able to see the energy field of the plant.
Exercise 3 (Sight)
Self
In this exercise you will try to see your own energy field while looking in a mirror. You will need a
quiet area—preferably with a solid color door, either white or dark—and a mirror (size doesn’t
matter, so long as you can see your entire head in the mirror).
1. Find a quiet place with low lighting.
2. Sit or stand with your back to the door.
3. Look at yourself in the mirror.
4. Relax your focus and look "through/behind" yourself.
With practice, you will begin to see the basic outline of your aura. In time, you will be able to see
colors, any problem spots, and—with more training—you will be able to distinguish between the
auric layers.
Exercise 4 (Sight)

Others, Part 1
Exercise 4 depends on having a willing partner.
1. Repeat Exercise 3 (Sight of Self), except have the other person stand/sit in front
of the door.
Others, Part 2
Exercise 6 is done while observing other people. You might choose to do this exercise before a
class starts, while in a mall, perhaps at a sporting event, etc.
1. Choose a location with several people.
2. Select one person at random and an object near them.
3. Train your focus on the object near the person, and then relax your focus so that
you include the person in your gaze.
4. Relax and look "through/behind" the individual.
Sight will allow you to see energy fields, perceive subtle shifts in energy, spot trouble areas, etc. It
is also useful when working with certain forms of channeling/divination. With practice, you will
also be able to see the energy lines within the Earth, as well as energy pools. Remember that
Sight may take some time to develop—each person develops at a different rate.
Any of the five basic senses can be developed to the point that you can use it to detect or feel
energy. Energy flows have a definite flavor, they have a smell, and they have a sound. After
"touch" and Sight, the sense of sound is usually the next one developed.
Sensing Energy by Sound
Everything vibrates. Even items which we consider to be non-moving, such as a chair, are really
moving. This idea has been part of magickal theory for many thousands of years. Western
science is just now beginning to understand the concept. All matter is made up atoms. Atoms are,
in turn, made up of protons, electrons, neutrons, and other subatomic particles such as quarks,
as well as other quantum-level particles. We now know that all of these particles are in constant
motion. On some level, everything is always in motion.
Consider sound: sound is nothing more than the excitation of particles at a certain rate. This rate,
for humans, is between 50Hz and 4.5KHz. Hz is the abbreviation for hertz; one hertz is defined as
one cycle per second. 50 Hz means that a wave repeats itself 50 times every second. 4.5Khz
means that a wave repeats itself 4,500 times per second. The higher the hertz, the higher-pitched
the sound. At around 4.5KHz, sound passes beyond the ability of humans to hear.
If you have ever taken music lessons or if you listen to music, you will know that in Western music
there are seven basic notes, or tones, in a scale. These tones can be made to sound higher or
lower by changing the frequency. If you go through the entire series of seven tones, you go
through an octave and start again. Therefore, you can have the same "note" at different levels:
"Middle C," "C above Middle C," "C below Middle C," etc. These octave notes are called

harmonics. When "hearing" energy, it will register as a harmonic of a note or frequency that
you can hear normally.
To learn to "Hear" energy, most people find it useful to start with bells and chimes. There is also
another technique called "Inner Voice" or "Internalizing," wherein you vibrate a sound. The first
step in learning to "Hear" is to establish a base.
Exercise 1 (Hearing)
For this exercise you will need a high-pitched bell or chime. If you do not have one, you can
improvise with metal spoons, bowls, and pots. If you have two small metal incense burners, like
those available in grocery stores, you will find that striking the two surfaces together will produce
a nice chime sound.
1. Sit in a comfortable position in a quiet area.
2. Relax and strike the bell or chime.
3. Listen to the sound as it fades to nothing.
4. Strike the bell or chime again, but this time pay attention to the higher sounds.
5. Listen to the sound as it fades.
6. Strike the bell or chime again and pay attention to any vibrations that occur within
your body.
Developing the sense of "Hearing" to perceive energy fields takes some practice, but it can be
done. As you work, you may start to notice a low- or high-pitched whine just outside of your
normal hearing range. Just remember to relax, work with the sound, and listen to it.
Sensing Energy by Taste/Smell
Of all the senses, taste and smell are usually the last and hardest to develop, since it is
very difficult to teach someone to taste a food. However, it is possible to develop these
senses to taste and smell energy. Since taste and smell are linked, the two senses are pretty
much developed in tandem. If you have ever had a head cold or a stopped-up nose, you will
know that at those times it is impossible to taste anything—at best, everything tastes very bland.
We will draw upon this concept to help develop these last two senses.
I am going to assume that before starting these exercises you will already have begun using one
or more of the other senses. Every emotional state has a specific rate or range of vibration. Since
emotions can be very intense, the energy associated them will be correspondingly intense.
Further, the "flavor" and "smell" of the energy will be very pronounced, especially when dealing
with very strong emotions. The exercises for "tasting" and "smelling" energy will require
other people to begin with.
he first step will be to "taste" and "smell" strong positive emotions. Generally, positive energy will
have a pleasant taste and smell. Negative energy, on the other hand, will generally have a bad or

unpleasant taste and smell. Very positive emotions can have a very sweet smell and taste. Very
negative emotions can have a very bitter or sour taste and smell. You must understand that these
statements are generalizations only.
Exercise 1 (Taste/Smell)
Optional, but recommended
This exercise will require you to attend some type of religious service. I select this venue,
because the emotions tend to be very strong and, usually, very positive. In addition, since there
are a large number of people participating, the concentration of energy will be much greater.
When attending any type of religious service, be sure not to be disrupting (even if you do not
agree) and always be polite.
1. Sit in a spot that is out of the way.
2. Relax and open your senses.
3. Follow throughout the service and "feel" the flow of energy. You will be surprised
at the amount of energy that occurs during song.
4. When you feel a decent "surge" or level of energy, inhale deeply.
5. Let your mind pick out the known and unknown scents. Think about the energy
levels as you inhale.
6. Inhale through your mouth and taste the smells. Think about the energy levels.
7. If possible, make notes about your impressions and sensations.
With practice, you will be able to discern a particular "taste" and "smell" for positive energy. With
further development, you will be able to "taste" and "smell" specific emotions.
Exercise 2 (Taste/Smell)
This one is required
For Exercise 2, you will need another person, preferably a friend whom you trust. You need to do
this when you are not wearing perfume/cologne and are reasonably clean. You should try to limit
the number of outside smells in the area. Exercise 2 is designed to help you establish the tastes
and smells of extreme ranges of emotions/energy.
1. Find a relaxed and quiet area.
2. Take several moments to breathe deeply, smelling and tasting what is in the
area.

3. Ask your friend to think, feel, and remember a very positive experience and to
describe it to you.
4. As your friend is talking, open your senses and feel the energy flows. While your
friend is talking, concentrate on the smells and tastes you are experiencing.
5. After your friend is finished, ask him/her to think of a very bad experience and to
relate it to you.
6. Sense the energy fields and patterns. Concentrate on the smells and tastes as
your friend speaks.
7. After working through the base emotions, be sure to write down your impressions
and experiences.
You should work with this exercise several times before attempting the third exercise, because
you will need a base of reference from which to work.
Exercise 3 (Taste/Smell)
This exercise also requires another person, preferably the same person from Exercise 2. If
possible, you will want a second or third person to work with at different times.
1. Find a relaxed and quiet area.
2. Take several moments to breathe deeply, smelling and tasting what is in the
area.
3. Ask your friend to feel a specific emotion such as love, joy, happiness, anger,
hate, etc.
4. Have the friend tell you what they are feeling.
5. Relax and open yourself to the energies around you, taste and smell the energy
being generated by the person.
6. Repeat these steps for different emotions.
7. After working through each emotion, write down your sensations and
experiences.
With practice and study, you can learn to use any of the five basic senses to sense energy fields.
You will be able to "find" certain types of energy and to recognize the energy types. If you branch
out into healing, these senses will become extremely useful when treating "disease" and other
problems. The most important thing to remember through all of this is not to get
discouraged or upset. Some people start with very strong potentials for "Touch," "Sight,"
"Hearing," "Smell," and "Taste," while others must struggle to learn to use these senses.

Sub-Orbit Blood Canon
When working with magic there are different planes of energy the practitioner can learn to
manipulate. Your life force is that which runs through your veins. It's the magnetic force created
by billions of sub-atomic particles orbiting around each other in your blood stream. Some have
called it Chi or Ki. It's the basis for many eastern disciplines including Gi Gung and Yoga.
In term of magic however, this magnetic force is used whenever you project or or attract energy
on a spiritual level. It's the universal law of equilibrium and the foundation of many magical
works. The exercises shown before this section should have given you a very good idea on how
to control your blood flow and energy levels throughout your body. This section shows you have
to project that harnessed energy away from your body - using the life force in your blood as a
canon in which in launch your high impact energy from.
One of the first steps in manipulating energy is the ability to project it. The projection of energy
involves the following steps:
• Summon the energy you will use
• Think of what you want the energy to do.
• See the energy leaving your body on a desired course and let it go.
Projecting energy in the essence of spell casting: black and white magic alike. The rest of
this section will teach you how to begin projecting simple types of energy. Through your own
work, training and practice you will begin to progress to the point of sending massive amounts of
different types of energy, all to achieve the same or a common goal.
In this same section, you will learn how to reabsorb projected energy, pool energy, gather
energy and creating magickal circles. But before any of that, you must learn the basics...
Exercise 1 (Energy Projection)
Directing A Beam Of Energy
1. Extend your arm and forefinger.
2. Feel and see a blue glow at your fingertip. The energy will feel cool and soothing.
3. See and feel the energy jump from your fingertip and travel out in a line from your
finger.
4. See the energy strike a desired point away from your body.
5. When you are ready to stop, see the beam of energy stop.
6. The beam of energy will rapidly (instantly) fade when you cease the projection.
The point that was formed will dissipate slowly until you will it to dissipate more
rapidly.

Exercise 2 (Energy Projection)
Forming A Pool Of Energy
1. Perform Exercise 1 (Energy), steps 1 through 4.
2. See the energy collect into a pool or a spot.
3. Continue until you have a spot the size that you desire.
4. When ready to stop, see the beam of energy stop and allow the spot either to
fade or to be reabsorbed into yourself.
One of the first practical applications of directing energy is forming a Level 1 Circle. A Circle is a
protected and sacred area used to contain your energy and to keep negative influences away
from you. It also helps to put you in a mindset for working magick. I define three levels of circles:
• Level 1 – Base Circle
• Level 2 – Base Circle + Quarters
• Level 3 – Base Circle + Quarters + Deity
Circles are usually begun by facing to the East, since East is associated with the element Air,
new beginnings, and inspiration. If you do not know the exact location of East ,do not worry—just
choose a point and consider it to be East.
Exercise 3 (Energy Projection)
Level 1 Circle, Standing In Place
1. Stand at the center of the circle that will be created.
2. Extend your arm and forefinger and see a blue glow at your fingertip.
3. See the beam of light strike the ground at the desired edge of the circle.
4. Slowly turn clockwise. As you turn, see a trail of blue light forming a circle.
5. Continue to turn clockwise until you reach the point from which you started and
see the circle formed.
6. When the circle is formed, see the entire circle glowing with a blue light.
7. See the circle form itself into a sphere.
8. Know that the sphere will provide a protective barrier between the outer world
and the inner space you have created.

Exercise 4 (Energy Projection)
Level 1 Circle, Walking The Boundary Of The Circle
1. Use the procedures in Exercise 3 (Energy Projection), but instead of standing in
the center of the circle, walk the boundary of the circle.
Reabsorbing Energy
To reabsorb energy, you must see/feel the energy and then draw it back into your body.
Imagine yourself or a body appendage, such as your finger, as a focal point and see/feel the
energy entering through that point.
Uncasting Level 1 Circle
1. Stand (or face) the beginning point.
2. Extend your arm and forefinger and point to the edge of the circle.
3. Walk counterclockwise (or rotate) and see/feel the blue light of the edge of the
circle being drawn back through your fingertip.
4. Continue to walk or rotate until you reach the beginning of the circle.
5. Optionally, state that the circle is closed:
Once a good understanding and base for energy working has been developed, one can then
move on to the creation of energy forms. Creating energy forms, just like projecting energy, is
used, for the most part, in spells, healing, divination and the likes. The next section covers
forming energy and sending energy to others for the purpose of healing, or maybe even
something less nice... Forming Energy
Once you can sense energy with any of your five basic senses, you can create energy
forms. These energy forms are the basis of being able to form and direct energy. Creating the
energy form can be broken into the following steps.
• Create the object in your mind.
• Project a mass of energy to a desired point or to your hand.
• See the mass of energy slowly reform to the shape that is created in your mind.
To create an energy form, you must first decide what you want to create.
1. Create the image in your mind. See the object in as much detail as you can
maintain.

2. Create an outline of the object in two dimensions.
3. Expand the two-dimensional image into a three-dimensional object.
4. Observe the object from various directions, making sure that you have the form
correct from all perspectives.
5. Add basic color to the object.
6. Add shading and texture.
7. Refine the object until you are satisfied in your mind with what you have formed.
Sending Energy to Others
When working magick, it is often desirable to send energy to someone - in one form or the other.
This is especially true with healing work. Also, an individual may ask you to direct some energy
their way. The direction of energy can be done as a passive act through positive thoughts and
good will. It can also be accomplished through the more active method of projecting energy.
Sending energy to an individual is nothing more than projecting energy and sending it to a
desired location.
Sending someone positive energy to help them through the day may be a great use for this
ability. Sending someone negative energy who has done you wrong, or someone you love harm
is another great use for this ability - depending where your ethics stand.
If you wish to aid/harm someone, but do not have their express permission, you can petition a
higher force (if you believe in such a force) for intervention. For example, you could build a bundle
of energy and then ask that the God and/or Goddess (or the archetype of deity) take that energy
and use it as he/she sees fit to aid the individual in question. There is also another option wherein
you send the energy to the person with the stipulation or message that the energy is there if
he/she wishes to use it. Notice that the first option involves the help of a higher entity.
The second option prevents the energy from being absorbed by the individual until he/she desires
it to happen. With such a working, the individual will know on some level that someone has sent
them a "gift" of energy and may choose to accept it or not. Generally, that other level is the
"higher self."
The following exercises/techniques are designed to help you send energy to other people.
Exercise 1 (Passing Energy)
Passing Energy To Another Person Through Direct Contact
This technique requires another person, obviously.

1. Sit or stand close to each other.
2. Take the other person's hand in yours.
3. Feel and see the energy collecting in your hand—feel it as warmth or coolness.
4. Feel and see a white light or energy flow from your hand to the other individual.
5. Allow the flow to continue for as long as desired. When ready, feel the flow stop.
This exercise should produce a reaction in both participants. Generally, the receiver will feel a
warmth.
Exercise 2 (Passing Energy)
Passing A Specific Type Of Energy (Hot Or Cold/Good Or Bad) To The Individual
1. Repeat Exercise 1 (Sending Energy), but visualize and feel with warm (red) or
cold (blue) energy.
2. Repeat Exercise 1(Sending Energy), but instead of holding hands, have your
hands separated by several inches.
3. Repeat the exercise again, but be separated by a few feet.
4. In each case, have the receiver tell you when they sense the energy reaching
them.
Exercise 3 (Passing Energy)
Tossing Energy Spheres
1. Sit/stand a comfortable distance from each other.
2. In your hand, form a sphere of white light or energy.
3. Throw the sphere to the other individual.
A variation on this exercise would be to have the other person have their eyes closed. You can
also catch the energy and throw it back, just as you would a ball.
Vampiric Aura
-Your tongue flicks sharply as you lick the tip of your finger, checking the arcane
signals in the air. Then slowly, you exhale while projecting out blood thirsty

energy particles. You emit them from every direction - no one in close proximity
is immune.
To the trained eye it would look as if your aura just grew 5 fold and was trying to
compress 15 feet of energy back down into a 3 foot area!
To you it just feels like your blood has been set on fire, like you're oozing with
new, fresh power. Use it as you will, but never abuse it - else your fate be
sealed.-
Siphoning Strength like that found in the Vampiric Aura ability is much like
absorbing energy from any other source. The advantage is however, it's usually
MUCH easier to steal energy from another living being than it is a plant or
animal. Due to humanistic properties of their specific energy, not much transition
in vibration must be made with any type or energy exchange.
To do this technique, begin by centering yourself. Bring your consciousness to
the middle of your chest, or heart. Take a deep breath and with your eyes
closed, imagine your consciousness in ball, still inside your chest. Imagine this
ball starting to grow in size. Expand in diameter, it's growing bigger and bigger in
all directions.
As the ball grows, so should the intensity of the experience. The larger area you
attempt to occupy with your thoughts, the more stress you put on yourself. As
long as you can handle it, keep the ball growing. Envision it consuming free bits
of energy in the air. If there are people around you open your eyes to reveal
them to your consciousness. Keep the vision of your growing ball forefront in
your minds eye.
As you acknowledge the person's presence with your thoughts, envision your ball
consuming, and totally surrounding this person. Imagine it harassing, poking,
biting, festering and just being an overall nuisance to any part of flesh it comes in
contact with. Your victim will respond by unknowingly putting out an defensive
aura energy which is now in 'your ball'. This is your stolen energy, run home with
it!
Inhale very slowly, as you do so imagine your expanded ball of energy and
conscious thought slowing coming back to you, back down to size, back down to
the center of your chest. By the time you've inhaled one breath, the ball should
be back in your chest, ready to burst with energy it's collected from your
environment.
Then with a sudden, "Rah!" exhale your lung full of breath and see the ball of
energy explode into billions of little pieces - spreading themselves all over your
body, becoming one with you. You should now feel more energized, revitalized
and have a greater perception of all objects and beings around you, as small part

of them have become a part of you now (on a subatomic level, but still noticeable
by your brain).
Congratulations, you've just Siphoned Strength in the form of raw energy from
your environment. As you become more skillful, so shall the size of your
Vampiric Aura and the amount of strength siphoned each time.
Raising Power
There are many different ways by which to raise power. Chanting, movement/dance, vibration,
playing musical instruments are all ways in which to raise power. Two of the more well-
known methods are the "cone of power" and "pool of power." The energy raised during a
working can be used for a specific group goal, or it can be absorbed by the group as a whole.
Energy can be gathered from a countless number of other sources as well. Some were listed in a
previous section, but here they are again:
The energy that is used in magick comes from six basic sources.
1. The energy within ourselves.
2. The environment around us such as plants, rocks, nature, etc.
3. Energy willingly given by others and/or energy created through various
forms of personal empowerment.
4. Energy from other planes of existence: astral, mental, elemental,
spiritual.
5. Energy from higher entities and divine sources.
6. From the pain/suffering/death of living beings.
Exercise 1 (Raising Power)
Personal Empowerment
1. Stand in a large circle.
2. One member will step into the center of the circle and state the name he/she
wishes to be called by the others and the number of times to be circled by the
group.
3. The group will begin chanting the person's name and will move clockwise around
the person in the center of the circle.

4. As the group of individuals circle, they direct energy to the person in the center of
the circle.
5. This continues until everyone has moved around the person the desired number
of times.
6. At the very end, there is usually a loud clap, roar, or some other signal to indicate
that the event is finished.
7. The process is repeated until everyone in the circle has had a turn in the center
Until the group is accustomed to this exercise, the number of circles should be limited to five or
seven. Going beyond this number has a good chance of overloading the person in the center of
the circle.
Exercise 2 (Raising Power)
Chair Lifting
1. A chair is placed in the center of the circle.
2. One of the group members sits in the chair.
3. The other group members gather around the chair and place one finger beneath
the chair.
4. The group concentrates on the idea that the chair and individual are weightless
and chants "light as a feather (or some other such phrase)."
5. Everyone will lift the chair at the same time and hold it aloft for a few moments
and then gently set it down.
This exercise can be a lot of fun. DO NOT do this exercise while sitting under a ceiling fan!—the
results can be extremely surprising. Generally, the participants will be amazed at how easy it is to
lift the person using only one finger.
Exercise 3 (Raising Power)
Pool Of Power
A pool of power is a group effort. In this exercise, the participants will sit or stand in a circle and
hold hands. One person will be designated as the "sounder." The sounder must be able to sense
energy and must be able to provide an anchor for the working. The sounder will begin the passing
of power and will monitor the power build. When the power has reached a level where it is still
just barely contained, the sounder will call an end to the working.
The exercise can be done with either an external or internal focus, or both. An external focus
could be an object to send the energy into or a phrase to chant (such as "love, peace, and

happiness"). An internal focus could be the picturing of a concept or an image, such as a cup
filling up.
**Love Pot or "Loving Cups"
1. Stand or sit in a circle.
2. Hold hands.
3. Think of the desired type of energy to focus (in this example, love will be used).
4. Each individual will picture love energy (usually thought of as pink) filling and
surrounding themselves.
5. The sounder will start by chanting the word "Love" and will be joined by the other
participants.
6. The sounder will form a bundle of love energy and pass it to the person on the
left.
7. The person on the left will receive the energy and add to it, then pass it to the
person on the left.
8. As the energy reaches each person, the individual will take in that energy and
add more to it, in turn passing it to the person on the left.
9. There is no limit to the number of time the energy may be passed around the
circle.
10. The sounder will monitor the energy as it builds, possibly humming or increasing
the pitch and tempo of the chant as the energy builds.
11. When the sounder senses that an appropriate level has been reached for all
participants, he/she will signal the release.
12. At this point, all members will drop hands, point into the center of the circle and
see the energy forming a large vat of love energy.
13. Each participant will then dip an imaginary (or formed) energy cup into the pot of
love, draw it out, and then "drink" it.
** Of course, "Love" is not the only type of energy that can be gathered using this
technique, any type of energy will do. "Love" was just used for the sake of example.
This technique can be used for gathering any sort of energy. Generally, pools of power are used
to charge items, or to provide a central store of energy for use in other workings such as healing
or cursing. It can also be used to charge a working space, such as the first time a permanent
circle is created. The steps in the exercise above are a guide on how to perform a pool of power.
The pool of power is simply the summoning and focusing of energy for a specific goal into a
centralized location.

This lesson has been written to instruct the new student on how to sense and manipulate energy,
and is one of the most "exercise-intensive" lessons in the series. It is intended for the lesson to be
studied and practiced repeatedly over the course of several weeks (a minimum of 8 weeks)
while other lessons are being presented.
This lesson provides the basic techniques that will be used throughout the remainder of your
magical practices and spell casting.
"A Whole Arsenal of Magickal Energy Just Waiting to Be Tapped."
Part four will help the magician to gather even additional energy to incorporate into his practices.
This section covers the uses of different candles and their corresponding colors, as well as the
use of certain herbs and crystals in your works. Finally, the section ties up with a detailed
analysis of moon phases and explains the peak times of the month to cast certain spells.
Some of the ideas covered in this section are as follows:
• Candle Magick
• The Magick of Herbs
• The Magick of Crystals
• The Magick of Moon Phases
• And A Little More...
Go to Part Four, Page 1
   
Candle Magick

Successful magick on any level requires a set of steps that must be followed to ensure success.
As with all magick, before beginning any work with energy you must first clearly state your goal.
This step is vital.
One method of doing this is to create a crystal clear mental image of what it is you are trying to
accomplish. In your head, create the image of your goal being achieved in as much vivid detail
as possible. What does it look like, smell like, feel like etc. The more vivid and defined the goal
is, the better the result - guaranteed.
Once you have clearly defined the goal at hand, you may then begin to gather energy in
preparation for your spell. There are countless ways to do this, a few of them were discussed in
previous sections.
Before selecting the type of candle that is going to be used in your ritual, or spell casting you
must first consider what type of energy you are trying to create. This type of energy corresponds
with the color of candle you will be using for your spell.
Candle colors and meanings as pertains to black magic are as follows:
The Black Candle
Attributes: Repelling or banishing negativity, Binding, Flushing out Secrets, Curses, Hexes and
Most other black magic practices.
Planet: Saturn
Day of Week: Saturday
Other Colors: Dark Blues, Dark Browns, (basically most Dark colors)
Considerations: The black candle is a very powerful resource. The black candle is perhaps one
of the vital weapons in a black magicians arsenal. Consider using one in all your dark works.
The Red Candle
Positive: Marriage, Courage, and Strength
Negative: Lust, Anger, Hate, Enemies and Peril
Planet\s: Mars
Day\s of Week: Tuesday
Other Colors: All Shades/Hues of Red
Considerations: Due to the possible negative energy gathered from the use of Red candles in
magick, this candle, like the black candle, also seems to be a vital asset to any practicing black
magician.
All the rest, not necessarily pertaining to black magic:
The Brown Candle
Attributes: Grounding, Centering Consciousness, Success through labor, Tree and Faerie
Magick.
Planets: Moon (tan browns), Venus (All browns), and Saturn (dark browns).
Days of Week: Monday, Friday, and Saturday
Other Colors: Tan and all other Shades of Brown

The Gray Candle
Attributes: Neutralizer, to erase without repercussion and aid in energy balancing.
Planet: Moon
Day of Week: Monday
Other Colors: Other Shades of Gray
The Blue Candle
Attributes: Wisdom, Sleep, Truth, Loyalty, Dreams and Emotions. Light Blue = Peace, Patience
and Health. Dark Blue= Banish Depression and Justice.
Planets: Venus, Saturn and Jupiter
Days of Week: Friday (Blues), Saturday (Dark Blues) and Thurdsay (Royal Blues)
Other Colors: As mentioned above.
The Green Candle
Attributes: Money, Herbal Magick, Attracts Success, Money associations with the plant kingdom,
Growth, Healing Faerie Magick, and Gardening
Planets: Venus and Mercury
Days of Week: Wednesday and Friday
The Yellow Candle
Attributes: Mental Clarity, Knowledge, Concentration, Healing, Study, Memory, Persuasion and
Subtle Attraction.
Planet: Mercury
Day of Week: Wednesday
The Gold Candle
Attributes: Sun Energy, Healing, To Heal all inner wounds, Money Smarts, Quick Actions
Planet: Sun
Day of Week: Sunday
The Pink Candle
Attributes: Emotions from the Heart, To begin a new relationship, Raise energies, Friends and
Family, and Healing
Planet: Venus
Day of Week: Friday

The Orange Candle
Attributes: Balancer, Neutralizer, Prospeity, Mental Agility, Energiser, Success and Stamina
Planets: Sun (Mental and Physical Action), Mars (Physical Action), Mercury (Mental Action)
Days of Week: Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday
The Purple Candle
Attributes: Expansion of obtained desires, Situations, Wisdom, Reversing, Law Power and
Recognition
Planet: Jupiter
Day of Week: Thursday
Once a candle with the proper attributes has been obtained, one should prepare for casting the
spell by beginning to clear ones mind except for the intention/goal at hand. Light the candle using
a match and not a lighter. Be sure to the let the match extinguish it's self in an ashtray or incense
burner. At no point should you be extinguishing a flame using your own breath.
Now that the candle flame is lit, one should begin to focus all of his/her energy on the flame of the
candle. Using complete concentration coupled with crystal clear visualization of your goals, focus
on the flame. Imagine the flame as a terminal for casting away with all the energy you have
collected for the spell.
The more energy you throw into a spell, the more successful it will become. Because of this, one
may wish to extinguish the candle (by snuffing not blowing) and save it for a similar ritual or
spell the following night. In some cases, spells are designed to allow the candle to burn to the
ground and extinguish it's self. After each "session" the candle should be allowed to burn
for at least one hour. This is to ensure all the energy poured into the flame has expelled itself
and none is going to waste.
Some people prefer to use candles as a main point of focus for their magickal works; however,
effective spells usually enlist a variety of techniques, substances and energies - candles being
just one of them.
The next section will cover the use of herbs in magickal works. And of course, herbs are one of
the substances that can be used in conjunction with candle magick.
   
The Magick of Herbs
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
The use of certain herbs and sages in magick is a important resource to any black
magician. Herbs can be used in conjunction with colored candles, moon phases, crystals and
other sources of energy in spell casting. What follows is a extensive list of the herbs and their
uses in various magickal practices:

A
African Violet- spirituality, protection.
Alfalfa- prosperity, money, safe travels, influence.
Allspice- money, healing, compassion.
Aloe- protection, healing, influence, peace, affection.
Aloes, Wood- love, spirituality.
Amaranth- invisibility, healing, protection, immortality, unfading love.
Angelica- protection, psychic seeing, healing, exorcism, peaceful dreams,
inspiration.
Anise, Star- protection, purification, youth, joy, centering.
Apple- love, healing, immortality, fertility, Fae magick, temptation.
Arabic, Gum- spirituality, purification.
Asafoetida*- purification, protection, exorcism.
Ash- protection, prosperity, health, Water magick.
Aster- love, variety.
Avens- exorcism, purification, love.
B
Bachelor's Buttons- love, single blessedness.
Balm, Lemon- love, success, healing.
Balm of Gilead- love, protection, healing, manifestations.
Barley- protection, healing, love.
Basil- love, exorcism, wealth, protection, astral & etheric projections.
Bay- healing, protection, purification, strength, psychic power, influence.
Bee Pollen- immediate responses, spreads knowledge and ideas, Fae
magick, cooperation, mental & spiritual fertility.
Benzoin- purification, prosperity, psychic seeing.
Bergamot, Orange- money, love, sanity.
Betony, Wood- protection, purification, love
Birch- purification, protection, exorcism.

Blackberry- healing, money, protection.
Bleeding Hearts- love, memories of lost love(s).
Bloodroot, Poison- love, protection, beauty, purification.
Burdock- protection, importunity, healing.
C
Calamus- healing, money, protection, health.
Camphor- divination, health, chastity, healing.
Caraway- protection, anti-theft, mental powers, health, lust.
Cardamon- love, lust.
Catnip- love, happiness, beauty, Cat magick, healing, health.
Cedar- healing, money, protection, purification.
Chamomile- love, success, money, healing, sleep, meditation,
purification, energy in adversity.
Chicory- breaking boundaries, invisibility, frugality.
Cinnamon- success, love, lust, healing, protection, spirituality,
psychic power, Power.
Clove- protection, exorcism, dignity, love, money.
Clover- love, business success, exorcism, fidelity, money, protection.
Comfrey- commitment to marriage, safe travel, money.
Coriander- love, health, healing.
D
Damiana- love, lust, psychic vision.
Dandelion- divination, calling spirits, Fae magick, strength, oracle.
Dittany of Crete- manifestations, astral & etheric projections,
clairvoyance, birth.
Dragon's Blood- love, protection, exorcism, potency, masculinity.
E-F

Elder Flowers & Berries- magickal power, protection,
prosperity, exorcism, healing, meditation, sleep, Fae magick, property
guardian, zealousness.
Eucalyptus- healing, protection, revealing secrets.
Fern- rain working, protection, wealth, health, exorcism, Fae magick,
love.
Frankincense- protection, exorcism, spirituality, sacred space,
purification.
G-H
Grains of Paradise- love, lust, money, wishes, "leap of faith"
situations.
Grass- union, psychic power, protection, fertility, celebration,
abundance.
Hemlock, Poison- protection, property guardian, Akashic records.
Hibiscus- divination, love, lust, Blood moon magick (fruit).
Hyssop- protection, purification.
I-J
Ivy- protection, healing, safe climbing.
Juniper- love, protection, health, exorcism, anti-theft.
K-L
Kava-Kava- psychic power, visions, protection, love, manifesting
results.
Kelp- health, healing, Sea magick, the ocean, shapeshifting.
Lavender- Fae magick, love, happiness, protection, etheric vision,
purification, peace, movement.
Lemon- purification, longevity, zest, love, relationships, friendship,
wealthy results.
Lily of the Valley, Poison- Fae magick, happiness, creative
visualization.

M-N
Mandrake, Poison American / May Apple- love, health,
money, protection, fertility, property guardian, Sympathetic magick.
Marigold / Calendula- strengthen love relations, protection,
prophetic dreams, astral projection, Fae magick, legal matters, psychic
power, intimacy, prediction, jealousy.
Marjoram- love, health, happiness, protection, mental clarity.
Mint family- love, money, healing, protection, exorcism, lust, Fae
magick, travel, communication.
Moss- money, getting ones "foot in the door", shapeshifting.
Mugwort- psychic power, protection, prophetic dreams, astral
projection, strength, Wiccan initiations.
Mulberry- strength, protection, etheric travel, creative visualization,
Fae magick.
Mullein- courage, love, health, Sympathetic magick, protection,
exorcism, and for a "light to guide you".
Myrrh- protection, healing, exorcism, spirituality, purity, purification.
Nettles- protection, love, lust, exorcism, healing, marriage.
Nightshade, Poison Bittersweet- truth, to rid oneself of
memories of past loves, protection, healing, Fae magick.
Nightshade, Deadly / Belladonna- etheric & astral
projection, endings, death, lucid dreaming, silence, property guardian.
(Caution! do not plant where children may accidentally eat its berries, this
plant IS deadly.)
O-P
Orris Root- love, protection, divination.
Parsley- love, protection, purification, lust, to attract a suitable
business partner.
Patchouli- fertility, peace, protection, money, attraction, love.
Pennyroyal- love, peace, strength, growth, protection, Fae magick,
prophetic dreams, new endeavors.
Periwinkle, Poison- love, lust, money, protection, psychic power,
Fae magick, influence.

Persimmon- healing, divination.
Pine- healing, fertility, protection, exorcism, money, Animal magick,
direction.
Promegranate- divination, passion, wealth, fertility, Sex magick.
Q-R
Queen Ann's Lace / Wild Carrot- property guardian,
direction, looking at things "in a new light", mediation, protection, rain,
blood.
Rice- rain working, protection, fertility, happiness, health, nourishment.
Rose- love, healing, divination, psychic power, Fae magick, marriage,
seduction, grace, finding a love.
Rosehips- love, intimacy, healing, protection, magick for personal
results, visions.
Rosemary- remembrance, love, healing, divination, protection,
purification, lust, Fae magick.
Rue- love, healing, health, exorcism, psychic power.
S-T
Sage- immortality, protection, wisdom, health, purification, Fae magick.
Scullcap- love, peace, fidelity, mental clarity, sleep, money.
Shephard's Purse- health, healing, secret cures.
St.John's Wort- protection, happiness, strength, health, divination,
Fae magick.
Straw- Sympathetic magick, etheric projection, purification.
Sunflower- Fae magick, adoration, solar power, strength, masculinity,
protection, haughtiness, fertility, health, wisdom, wishes, healing oneself.
Tea- courage, strength, wealth, spirit offering, protection.
Thyme- love, healing, health, quick results, purification, courage,
psychic power, Fae magick.
Tobacco, Poison- healing, purification, spirit offering.
Tormentil- love, protection.

U-V
Valerian- love, purification, protection, sleep, money.
Vervain- love, protection, peace, purification, healing, money.
Violet- love, lust, peace, healing, protection, Fae magick.
W
Wheat- fertility, money, abundance, nourishment.
Willow- etheric projection, love, divination, protection, psychic power,
Moon magick, problem solving.
Wormwood- calling spirits, spirit communication, psychic power,
protection, love.
X-Y-Z
Yarrow- love, courage, exorcism, psychic power.
Yew- spirit communication, necromancy, ancestor communication.
Most of these herbs can be found at numerous online sources. Most are relatively inexpensive,
but if used correctly will be worth 100 times more then you paid for it. This guide would be
incomplete if we covered the use of herbs and colored candles without covering crystals, which is
found in the next section.
   
The Magick of Crystals
Virtually every culture and religion throughout history has used stones symbolically,
decoratively or practically. The beauty and scarcity of precious stones, as well as the feelings
they inspire, makes them very valuable. Many crystals also have practical uses which we can
incorporate into our daily lives.
Crystals can also be used very effectively to gather and direct the magickal energy that exists all
around and within us. Like ancient mystics, we can learn to use them for protection, luck, healing
and a variety of other uses more appealing to the black magician. Crystals have also been made
use of as lucky charms and protection stones and are even made mention of in the Bible.

Just as light can be focused through a crystal, so can all types of magickal and physic energies
as well. Crystals influence the bodies aura and play a vital role in the collections, passing
and centering of energy in magickal/physic works. Different colored crystals have different
vibrations, these vibrations can be matched to ones own aura and own energy field.
For Beauty- Amber, Cat's-eye, Jasper, Opal
For Business Success- Bloodstone, Malachite, Green Tourmaline, Yellow Zircon
For Courage- Agate, Amethyst, Aquamarine, Bloodstone, Diamond, Lapis Lazuli, Tiger's-eye,
Turquoise
For Dieting- Moonstone, Topaz
For Divination- Azurite, Jet, Moonstone, Obsidian, Tiger's-eye
For Lucid Dreaming- Amethyst, Azurite, Fluorite
For Eloquence- Carnelian, Celestite, Sardonyx
For Friendship- Chysoprase, Pink Tourmaline, Turquoise
For Gardening- Agate, Jade, Malachite, Brown Zircon
For the God Aspect- Citrine, Malachite, Sunstone
For the Goddess Aspect- Moonstone, Chrysocolla
For Grounding- Hematite, Moonstone, Obsidian, Salt, Black Tourmaline
For Happiness- Amethyst, Yellow Zircon
For Healing- Agate, Amber, Amethyst, Bloodstone, Cat's-eye, Coral, Diamond, Garnet, Jade,
Jasper, Jet, Lapis Lazuli, Topaz, Turquoise, Red Zircon
For Longevity- Agate, Fossils, Jade, Petrified Wood
For Love- Agate, Amber, Amethyst, Beryl, Emerald, Jade, Lapis Lazuli, Malachite, Moonstone,
Olivine, Pearl, Sapphire, Topaz, Turquoise
For Luck- Amber, Apache Tear, Aventurine, Cross Stone, Jet, Olivine, Opal, Pearl, Sardonyx,
Tiger's-eye, Turquoise Magickal
Power- Bloodstone, Quartz Crystal, Malachite, Opal, Ruby
For Meditation- Geodes, Sapphires, Sodalite
For Mental Powers- Aventurine, Emerald, Fluorite, Zircon
For Money, Wealth, Prosperity- Aventurine, Bloodstone, Calcite, Cat's-eye, Coal, Emerald,
Jade, Mother-of-Pearl, Opal, Pearl, Peridot, Ruby, Salt, Sapphire, Tiger's-eye, Topaz, Green
Tourmaline, Brown, Green or Red Zircon

For Peace- Amethyst, Aquamarine, Aventurine, Carnelian, Coral, Diamond, Lepidolite, Malachite,
Obsidian, Sapphire, Sardonyx, Blue Tourmaline
For Physical Energy- Beryl, Selenite, Sunstone, Tiger's-eye, Red Tourmaline, Red Zircon
Physical Strength- Agate, Amber, Beryl, Bloodstone, Diamond, Garnet
Protection- Agate, Amber, Apache Tear, Calcite, Cat's-eye, Citrine, Coral, Quartz Crystal,
Diamond, Emerald, Flint, Fossils, Garnet, Jade, Jasper, Jet, Lapis Lazuli, Lava, Malachite,
Marble, Moonstone, Mother-of-Pearl, Obsidian, Onyx, Pearl, Peridot, Petrified Wood, Ruby, Salt,
Sardonyx, Sunstone, Tiger's-eye, Topaz, Black Tourmaline, Red Tourmaline, Turquoise, Clear
Zircon, Red Zircon
Purification- Aquamarine, Salt
Sexual Energy- Carnelian, Sunstone, Yellow Zircon
For Sleep- Moonstone, Peridot, Blue Tourmaline
For Spirituality- Calcite, Diamond, Sugilite
For Success- Amazonite, Chrysoprase, Marble
For Safety in Travel- Chalcedony, Orange Zircon
For Wisdom- Coral, Jade, Sodalite, Sugilite
   
The Magick of Moon phases
Many black magicians work with the different phases of the moon (waxing, waning, new
and full) to draw up extra energy into the use of their spells. The use of the
proper/corresponding moon phase can add awesome power to even the simplest of spells.
ASTROLOGICAL MOON PHASES
Moon in Aries:
This is the best time to work magick involving leadership, authority, rebirth, spiritual conversation,
or willpower. Healing rituals for ailments of the face, head, or brain are also done during this
period of time.
Moon in Taurus:
This is the best time to work magick for love, real estate, material acquisitions and money.
Healing rituals for ailments of the throat, neck and ears also done during this time.
Moon in Gemini:

This is the best time to work magick for good communication, change of residence, writing, public
relations and travel. healing rituals for ailments of the shoulders and arms, hands, or lungs are
also done in this period of time.
Moon in Cancer:
This is the best time to work magick for home and domestic life. healing rituals for ailments of the
chest or stomach are also done during this time period of time.
Moon in Leo:
This is the best time to work magick involving authority, power over others, courage, fertility, or
childbirth. Healing rituals for ailments of the upper back, spine, or heart are also done during this
period of time.
Moon in Virgo:
This is the best time to work magick involving employment, intellectual matters, health and
dietary concerns. Healing rituals for ailments of the intestines or nervous system are also done
during this period of time.
Moon in Libra:
This is the best time to work magick involving artistic work, justice, court cases, partnerships and
unions, mental stimulation and karmic spiritual or emotional balance. Healing rituals for ailments
of the lower back or kidneys are also done during this period of time.
Moon in Scorpio:
This is the best time for magick involving sexual matters, power, psychic growth, secrets and
fundamental transformations Healing rituals for ailments of the reproductive organs are also done
in this period of time.
Moon in Sagittarius:
This is the best itme to work on magick for publications, legal matters, travel, and truth. healing
rituals for ailments of the liver, thighs or hips are also done at this time.
Moon in Capricorn:
This is the best time to do magick for organization, ambition. recognition, career and political
matters. Healing rituals for the knees, bones teeth, and skin are also done at this time.
Moon in Aquarius:
This is the best time to work magick involving science, freedom, creative expression, problem
solving, extrasensory abilities, friendship and breaking bad habits or unhealthy addictions.
Healing rituals for ailments of the calves ankles or blood are also done in this period of time.
Moon in Pisces:
This is the best time to work magick involving dream work, clairvoyance, telepathy, music, and
the creative arts. Healing rituals for ailments of the feet or lymph glands are also done at this
time.
A Warning: The Moon is said to be "Void of Course" when it has moved out of its last major
aspect with another planet before moving into another astrological sign (Aries, Taurus, Gemini,
etc... ) This happens quite often and you should watch the calendar and be sure that you are
aware when the Moon is Void of Course (it says "V/C" on the calendar). It usually doesn't last
more than a few hours, but it sometimes lasts for a full day or even two. Magickal (and Mundane)
energies are very chaotic when the Moon is Void of Course. Therefore, it is highly recommended
that you NOT start any magick, cast any spells, perform a ritual of any kind, buy a major
investment (for example, a computer, a car, or a house), or make a major decision of any kind
during this time.

................................WA
XING MOON
Time: From New Moon
to Full Moon (Approx 14 days)
Goddess Aspect: Maiden.
Associated Goddesses: Artemis, Branwen, Eriu, Nymph, and Epona.
Magickal Attributes: INVOKING Beginnings, New projects, Ideas, Ispirations, Energy, Vitality,
Freedom.
Workings on this day are for: "Constructive" magick, (love, wealth, success, courage, friendship,
luck or health.)
................................FULL MOON
Time: Approx 14 days after New Moon (Energy lasts from 3 days before Full Moon to 3 days after
actual Full Moon)
Goddess Aspect: Mother.
Associated Goddesses: Danu, Cerridwen, Gaia, Aphrodite, and Isis.
Magickal Attributes: FRUITION Manifesting goals, Nurturing, Passion, Healing, Strength, Power.
Workings on this day are for: Protection, Divination, "Extra Power", Job hunting, healing serious
conditions. Also love, knowledge, legal undertakings, money, dreams, wants and desires.
................................WANING MOON
Time: From Full Moon to Dark Moon (Approx 14 days)
Goddess Aspect: Crone
Associated Goddesses: Callieach, Banshee, Hecate, Kali, Morrigan.
Magickal Attributes: BANISHING Releasing the Old, Removing Unwanted Negative Energies,
Wisdom, Psychic Abilities, Scribing, Reversing Circumstances.
Workings on this day are for: Banishing magick, ridding oneself of addictions, illness or negativity,
physical and psychic cleansings.
................................NEW MOON
Time: From Dark Moon to Waxing Moon (depends)
Goddess Aspect: Madien
Associated Goddesses: Callieach, Banshee, Hecate, Kali, Morrigan.
Magickal Attributes: BANISHING Releasing the Old, Removing Unwanted Negative Energies,
Wisdom, Psychic Abilities, Scrying, Reversing Circumstances.
NEW BEGINNINGS Weight loss, Goal setting, Planning, Cleaning, Personal Cleansing, General
beginnings and considerations.
Workings on this day are for: Starting new ventures, new beginnings, love, romance, health, or
job hunting.
BOOK CONTENTS

Part I - Part II - Part III - Part IV
.
"Stuff People Already Think You Know About Black Magic & Witchcraft."
.
Section Introduction
Page 1
What exactly is Magic?
Witchcraft
Origins
Early Man
Killing the Image
The Druids
Modern Witchcraft Influences
Page 2
The Burning Times
Witches at Fault
The Bull
The Witches' Hammer
Black Cat
American Witch Prosecution
Page 3
The Salem Witch Trails
The Witch Craze Finally Subsides
Scire
.
Page 4
The Awakening of Witchcraft
The Importance of History
Who Will Control The Future
Page 5
Beliefs
The Rule of 3
As Long as it Harms None, Do as You
Will...
Laws to Live By
Freewill of Another
Page 6
The God Aspect
The Goddess Aspect
Elements of Nature
Page 7
Covens
Coven Leadership & Activity
The Tarot
.
.
"Some of the Better Kept Secrets of Magic."
.
Section Introduction
Page 1
Hermetic Philosophy
Hermetic Roots
Alchemy
Page 2
"Physics" of Magic
Mental Transmutation
.
Page 3
Limits to Magic & Energy
Limitless Energy
Exercising Your Energy
Page 4
Matter & Energy: Planes of Existence
The 7 Physical Planes
The 7 Mental Planes

7 Principles
..-..Mentalism
..-..Correspondence
..-..Vibration
..-..Polarity
..-..Rhythm
..-..Cause & Effect
..-..Gender
Page 5
Understanding the Spiritual Plane
The 7 Spirit Planes
Mental Transmutation Cont.
.
.
.
"Energy Manipulation: Finally, the Essence of Magick in All it's Glory."
.
Section Introduction
Page 1
Sources of Energy
Personal/Internal Energy
A Warning on Energy
Sources of Energy Cont.
Page 2
Sensing The Dead Ability
Exercise 1 (Touch)
Exercise 2 (Touch)
Exercise 3 (Touch)
Exercise 4 (Touch)
Exercise 5 (Touch)
Exercise 6 (Touch)
Exercise 7 (Touch)
Page 3
Sensing Energy by Sight
Exercise 1 (Sight)
Exercise 2 (Sight)
Exercise 3 (Sight)
Exercise 4 (Sight)
Page 4
Sensing Energy by Sound
Exercise 1 (Hearing)
.
.Page 5
Sensing Energy by Smell/Taste
Exercise 1 (Smell/Taste)
Page 6
Sub-Orbit Blood Canon
Exercise 1 (Energy Proj.)
Exercise 2 (Energy Proj.)
Exercise 3 (Energy Proj.)
Exercise 4 (Energy Proj.)
Reabsorbing Energy
Page 7
Forming Energy
Sending Energy to Others
Exercise 1 (Passing Energy)
Exercise 2 (Passing Energy)
Exercise 3 (Passing Energy)
Page 8
Vampiric Aura & Other Sources of
Power
Exercise 1 (Raising Power)
Exercise 2 (Raising Power)
Exercise 3 (Raising Power)
.
.
"A Whole Arsenal of Magickal Energy Just Waiting to Be Tapped."
. .
Page 3

Section Introduction
Page 1
Candle Magick
Page 2
The Magick of Herbs
The Magick of Crystals
Page 4
The Magick of Moon phases
