Here is some of what most of you are looking for...
Black Magic ... curses, hexes, and bindings. Look no further...
*Warning - This is not for beginners..... without experience, you will
only hurt yourself!
Curse
*******
There has been unfairness done to me
I summon the elements
I envoke them
I conjure them to do my bidding
The four watchtowers whall lay their eyes and minds
there shall be fear and guilt and bad blood
there shall be submission and no pity
I point the threefold law against thee
against thee it shall be pointed
threefold, a hundred fold is the cost for my anger and pain
Thee shall be blinded by the fear
blinded by the pain
blinded by me
binded by me
Cursed by me
So mote it be!
This curse shall be layed upon the victim while burning am image of the
victim (wax sigil, photograph, drawing, anything) in the flame of a
consecrated black candle.
©1998 Orion
Binding by Fear Ritual
******************************
This is the image of my would be victim
it I hang from a single thread
in a place no one shall see
it will bring fear in the heart of him who shall harm me
it will bring fear in the heart of him who would harm me
He will be binded by fear from harming me further
he will be binded by fear from harming me at all
I will tie a knot in the thread when I wish to secure the fear
until I break it
so mote it be
These two spells were given to me by ©1998 Orion
E-mail her at: orion_satanic@witch.zzn.comor visit her Web Site...
http://www.deathstarnebula.com/http://www.deathstarnebula.com/
Hex to bring... "Discord and Darkness"!
Here is a great Hex to bring total chaos to your enemies or someone you hate.
Perfect for someone who has done you wrong in a bad way.
You will need a piece of thick string or yarn about 9 or 10 inches long. You
will tie 3 separate knots a couple inches apart as you recite the following...

"With this knot I seal this hex
you will not sleep, you will not rest
Knots of anger, knots of hate
Discord brings you to your fate
I tie this second knot makes two
Bringing darkness over you
Slander, discord, evil too
Bringing darkness straight to you
With this third knot, I do bind
Weaving chaos in your mind
Hex of anger, hex of hate
Bring him down, I will not wait"
So mote it be!
As you do this spell be thinking of all the chaos that it is going to bring to your enemy and make sure you are
worked up into a rage before doing the spell. This will make it all the more effective! When you are done see
if you can hide this string (with the knots now tied) around you enemies home! This will make it more potent!
If not then save it in a special place until you decide to untie the knots and give your enemy a second chance.
©1998 PUZUZU
Lucifer's Touch...
A Powerful Evil Hex!
Light 3 black candles at midnight and repeat the following three times. If you have a bell you should ring it
three times at the beginning of this ritual...
I call to the mighty bringer of light, Lucifer...
"Spirits of the abyss, here my call
all most powerful one and all
Lucifer my thoughts do sing
through the universe they now ring
Take thine enemy, take him smite
Break him, scorn him in the night
From the mighty depths of hell
cast your darkness on his shell
Oh Lucifer, oh shinning star
Touch him, burn him from afar
Revenge now will have its day
for thine enemy starts to fray"
So mote it be!
During the time spent doing this hex, you should be worked up into a frenzy of anger and thinking of the
darkness about to descend upon your enemy. When you are done, extinguish the candles.
©1998 PUZUZU
Bones of Anger... Hex
Gather bones of chickens and dry them in the sun for a few days. Then when you are ready to do this hex
make sure you are worked up into a frenzy of anger and hatred. This will add to the potency of your hex! Be
thinking of all this while doing this hex and when it says 'With these bones I now do crush" take a hammer or
use your feet to stomp and crush these bones as if they were your enemy before you! When you are done
sweep them up and place them in a bag. You will then want to sprinkle the dust and remains of the bones on
your enemies property around his house.
If you have a bell ring it 3 times and say...
I call upon the Ancient Ones from the great abyss to do my bidding
I invoke Cuthalu, God of Anger and the creatures of the underworld
hear me now...

"Bones of anger, bones to dust
full of fury, revenge is just
I scatter these bones, these bones of rage
take thine enemy, bring him pain
I see thine enemy before me now
I bind him, crush him, bring him down
With these bones I now do crush
Make thine enemy turn to dust
torment, fire, out of control
With this hex I curse your soul"
So mote it be!
***Warning:This can be a Deadly Hex! If you so choose to do it, be
forewarned that you may indeed seriously harm this person and you are
responsible for the Karma! You may want to do one of the less damaging
hexes.The choice is yours.
©1998 PUZUZU
3 Nights of Hell..
Candle Spell
This spell will inflict serious pain and sores on thine enemy for a period of 3
strange days. After which the spell is lifted he is made well again.Take a black
candle
and place a picture of thine enemy in front of you and tilt the candle so the wax
drips upon the would be victim in the picture. Visualize the wax burning sores into
the body of thine enemy. While doing so, recite the following 3 times...
"As I do this candle spell
Bring thine enemy 3 nights of hell
Candle black, black as night
Bring him pains of flesh tonight!
lesions on his skin will grow
Afflict him with a painful blow
Sores and pain afflict him now
for 3 nights he'll wonder how
Dukes of darkness, Kings of hell
Smite thine enemy, bring him hell
when 3 nights of pain have past
Make him well, well at last".
After sitting and thinking about the sores that will infflict your enemy and the pain
he will suffer you may then extinguish the candle. When 3 nights have past tear up
the photo and say the following...

"When 3 nights of pain endured, I lift this curse rest assured
Darkness leave him, go away, the curse is lifted now, today!"
©1998 PUZUZU
Marriage to Hell Hex...
This hex is for those who wish to break up a marriage by causing extreme
chaos in the victims relationship. This will bring about the most chaotic
vibrations in their household of Hell to be. For Hell is exactly what you will be
bringing them. This will bring each of them to a boiling point where they
would be tempted to kill one another. This hex is not for those who just want
to break up a couple. For that you can use one of my other less harming spells.
This is for someone you really hate with a passion... someone who you wish to
see suffer intensely with the end result being a broken heart and broken mind
for them. A total collapse of their little white picket fence dream. An end to
their happy little world of love and harmony. If you truly have the evil seed,
this spells for you to cast indeed.
You will need four black candles for this hex, a picture of the intended victim
and some anointing oil. You only need a picture of one person whose marriage
you wish to dissolve. If you have a picture that contains the couple together,
that is fine but you will focus mainly on one of the two. You will also need a
red marker, a hammer, two nails and a block of wood that is around 1’x1’
square.
First you will want to anoint the candles with the oil and while doing so
thinking of the all the chaos this hex will be causing. Visualizing in your mind
the victims mental hell they will be going through and visualize them fighting
with words of extreme hate and violence. Visualize them finally splitting up
and divorcing. Visualize this divorce being bitter to the end!
Part 1.
Place the picture of the victim to be on the block of wood. With the red
marker, draw a red heart on the forehead and on the chest of the victim in the
picture. Take your hammer and drive the nail into the heart drawn on the
head of the victim on the picture. While doing so, say the following words...
“With this nail I stab your heart
soon your love so near will part.”
Take your hammer and drive the nail into the heart drawn on the chest of the
victim on the picture. While doing so, say the following words...
“With this nail I stab your mind
insanity you now shall find.”
Part 2.
Place the black candles on four points around the picture of the victim. Place
them North, South, East and West. During all this you should be facing East.

Light all four candles and meditate on the hex once again. Allow for the black
wax from the candle to drip down onto the picture. Thus symbolizing him
being surrounded by darkness, negativity and chaos. Then when you are
ready, recite the following words with the utmost sincerity...
“Lords of Darkness, Lords of Night
bring this hex now to flight.
take this man I see before me now
speed up his karma, bring him down.
take his marriage and break it apart
bring it chaos and hate, now to start.
tear their love to shreds so fine
what was is gone, now is the time.
no longer shall they be together
his close nit family shall now be severed.
when together they start to smother
each doest want to kill the other.
no longer shall ye be as one
your marriage is over
what’s done is done!
Lords of Darkness, Lords of Night
bring this hex now to flight.”
So it be!
Remember that the word his may be changed to her and so forth. When you
are done, extinguish the candles and leave everything set up as it is and you
may repeat the second part of the spell for three nights, starting with lighting
the candles, meditating, and reciting the incantation. At the end of three
nights you may want to leave everything still set up for awhile to keep that
vibration going out there to do its work. Then when you feel it is time... you
may dispose of everything. If you are like me, you will even make throwing it
in the trash a ritual. What I mean is I will think of throwing it into the trash
as symbolizing the victims life of happiness going to the trash to be gone
forever!
©2001 PUZUZU

Smitten, Battered, Beaten,
Torn
A VOODOO Spell of torment and pain affliction...
Light two black candles on the alter you have worked up the negative energy and
your anger has built... take the Voodoo doll and visualize with intensity that it is
your enemy before you. You may even cut out the face on a picture of your victim
and glue it to the head of the Voodoo doll. If you have any nail clippings or hair
follicles or any small item that has the victims vibration on it, you can place it
inside the Voodoo doll. That will make it a much stronger connection and all the
more powerful. Once you have worked up the negative energy and your anger has
drawn near its boiling point... slam it to the alter and stab one time at the doll in the
place where you wish to afflict pain. Then take another pin if you so desire and
prick the doll once again in a place where you wish to afflict more pain. Each time
you stab at the Voodoo doll make sure you are visualizing that you are actually
inflicting pain on your enemy. Do not touch the pins after you have placed them.
While doing this, recite the following incantation....
“Smitten, battered, beaten, torn
I prick at thee as if a thorn
Suffer now I will not wait
With this pin I seal your fate
Pins so sharp and made of steel
I strike at thee, these pins you'll feel
Smitten, battered, beaten, torn
I curse you now, your pain is born!”
You may repeat this again for a few days if you wish... adding more pins and
leaving the pins that are already there alone. Do not touch the pins after you have
placed them. Once again, if you touch any of the pins after they have been placed,
the Curse will come back on you. Backfire!
Vanity Insanity
A Curse for the Vain...
Here is a curse for someone who is extremely vain. This will bring them
insanity from their own vanity. It shall make them crazy in their own mind
thinking they are ugly and no longer pretty to the world. Sometimes we come
across people in our lives that we cannot stand because these people are so

vein and they think that they are better than you just because they were
blessed with extremely good looks. Its one thing if they are good looking but it
is another thing if they go around acting like they know it. If you are like me,
then it is time to knock them off their high horse. I personally hate people like
this and would like nothing better than for these people to wake up in the
morning and look in the mirror saying... I look like crap... I hate myself and
my looks! Oh my, this is a great spell and there are so many people deserving
of it.
Take hair and nail clippings and a picture of the one you wish to punish. Take
the picture and write the words “Beauty and Charm” on it with a black magic
marker. Place all this in your cauldron and set it on fire. You will want to do
this outside so in order to protect you from carbon monoxide poisoning and or
burning your house down. As the fire starts to burn, read the following
incantation...
“(Persons name) whom I now see
you’ll go insane from vanity.
You’ll see yourself as others do
all your looks are gone from you.
What was is gone and now is true
all your beauty will flee from you.
You look in the mirror, yourself to tend
your youthful face has come to an end.
Your mighty ego now is broken
you’ll go insane in that same token.
I take this all away from you
because of all the things you do.
Once you thought you were so great
I bring you down to meet your fate.
The smell of stench is in the air
around you now, you’ll lose your hair
In your mind you’ll go insane
vanity is now your pain.”
“I accept this now manifesting by the powers of the Deities
that rule the Darkest of the abyss...Lucifer, Belzebut and
Astarot. Aid me in my endeavors and carry out my wishes. So
be it!”
Take the ashes and place them in a small bag or container. The reason you
want to save every bit of this is so that you can place the ashes around your

victims house. If you are someone who does go in this persons house that will
be all the better for you can sprinkle them around the inside of the house in
different places.
After you have read the incantation will want to sit and meditate on the curse
and visualize all these things happening to the victim of your choosing.
When you are done meditating for a few minutes, make sure the fire is
completely out and return to your nightly affairs.
