$97.00 (USD)
Bogdan & Giancarlo

2
“Witch Craft Exposed”
This is NOT A Free eBook	This is NOT A Free eBook	This is NOT A Free eBook	This is NOT A Free eBook
Copyright © 2004 	www.witchcraftexposed.com, Bogdan and
Giancarlo. All Rights Reserved
Reproduction or translation of any part of this work by any means, electronic or
mechanical, including photocopying, beyond that permitted by the copyright law,
without the permission of the publisher is unlawful.
LEGAL DISCLAIMER NOTICE
Use of this e-book is governed by specific terms and conditions
previously made available to you and which are completely set forth
at http://www.witchcraftexposed.com/terms.html
Any further consumption or use of this e-book by you constitutes
express acceptance of those terms and conditions.

3
I 	N 	D 	E 	X
Introduction ……………………………………………………………………………………….
What is Magick?…………………………………………………………………………………..
Rules of Magick ………………………………………………………………………………….
Concept of Witchcraft……………………………………………………………………………
Solitary witchcraft………………………………………………………………………………..
Tools and Treasures…………………………………………………………………………….
Spell Casting………………………………………………………………………………………
Witchcraft within Covens……………………………………………………………………….
Different Kind of Magick ……………………………………………………………………….
• 	Sympathetic Magick……………………………………………………………………….
• 	Contagious Magick ………………………………………………………………………..
• 	Attracting Magick ………………………………………………………………………….
• 	Banishing And Protective Magick ………………………………………………………..
• 	Binding Magick …………………………………………………………………………….
Elements of the Nature and
how the apply to Magick ………………………………………………………………………..
Tarot (Major and Minor Arcane) ……………………………………………………………
The Physics of Magick…………………………………………………………………………..
Energy (Planes of Existence) ………………………………………………………………….
Beginning Magick………………………………………………………………………………...
• 	Magical Place………………………………………………………………………………
• 	Altar………………………………………………………………………………………….
• 	Setting up your Altar……………………………………………………………………….
• 	Empowering your Altar…………………………………………………………………….
Casting a Circle…………………………………………………………………………………...
Casting a dual Circle…………………………………………………………………………….
Casting a Triple Circle…………………………………………………………………………...
Uncasting The Circle…………………………………………………………………………….
7
8
8
9
9
10
10
11
11
11
12
12
12
12
13
13
14
14
14
14
15
15
16
17
18
18
19

4
Preparing your Mind for Magick……………………………………………………………….
A Moon Magick ritual for Calm…………………………………………………………………
A Sun Magick ritual for Energy………………………………………………………………...
Sources of Energy……………………………………………………………………………….
Personal Energy………………………………………………………………………………….
Sensing Energy by touch………………………………………………………………………
• 	Exercise # 1………………………………………………………………………………..
• 	Exercise # 2………………………………………………………………………………..
• 	Exercise # 3………………………………………………………………………………..
• 	Exercise # 4………………………………………………………………………………..
Sensing Energy by Sights………………………………………………………………………
• 	Exercise # 1………………………………………………………………………………...
Sensing Energy by Sound………………………………………………………………………
• 	Exercise # 1………………………………………………………………………………...
Sensing Energy by Taste and Smell…………………………………………………………..
• 	Exercise # 1………………………………………………………………………………...
Projecting Energy………………………………………………………………………………...
• 	Exercise # 1………………………………………………………………………………...
Reabsorbing Energy……………………………………………………………………………..
Forming Energy…………………………………………………………………………………..
Raising Power…………………………………………………………………………………….
• 	Exercise # 1………………………………………………………………………………...
Candle Magic………………………………………………………………………………………
Oils and Incenses in Magick……………………………………………………………………
An Oil Ritual to Increase Prosperity…………………………………………………………..
Incense Magick……………………………………………………………………………………
19
20
20
21
21
22
23
24
24
25
25
26
27
28
28
29
31
32
32
33
33
35
36
36
37
37
38

5
Different Incenses for Magick………………………………………………………………….
Combining Incenses in Rituals………………………………………………………………...
A Six Incense Ritual for Love…………………………………………………………………..
A Ritual for harmony……………………………………………………………………………..
Crystals and Protective Magick………………………………………………………………..
Balancing the Energies………………………………………………………………………….
Charging Your Crystals with Positive Power………………………………………………..
Different Protective Crystals……………………………………………………………………
A Protective Crystal Ritual……………………………………………………………………...
A Protective Ritual with Empowered Salt……………………………………………………
A Ritual For Consecrating Water………………………………………………………………
Revitalizing Rainwater For Use In Rituals……………………………………………………
A Protective Water Ritual……………………………………………………………………….
Healing Magick……………………………………………………………………………………
Creating A Healing Sanctuary………………………………………………………………….
A Ritual For Creating Healing Magick………………………………………………………...
A Short Ritual For Absent Healing…………………………………………………………….
A Healing Ritual With Sunlight And Moonlight……………………………………………..
Color Healing……………………………………………………………………………………...
A Color Healing Ritual With Candles…………………………………………………………
Healing With Water And Colored Glass………………………………………………………
A Healing Ritual With Colored Glass………………………………………………………….
Ritual Magick………………………………………………………………………………………
The Aims Of Formal Rituals…………………………………………………………………….
39
42
46
49
50
53
53
55
56
57
58
58
62
64
65
66
66
67
67
68
69
69
70
70

6
The Four Quarters Of The Circle………………………………………………………………
Drawing A Pentagram……………………………………………………………………………
A Formal Ritual To Restore Prosperity……………………………………………………….
Moon Magick………………………………………………………………………………………
A Banishing Ritual………………………………………………………………………………..
Planets and Angels………………………………………………………………………………
Glossary……………………………………………………………………………………………
71
72
73
74
74
75
75

7
INTRODUCTION
Welcome to Witch Craft Exposed, Thanks once again for the purchase of this
Book! You are about to learn one of the most powerful secrets of Magick ever
Disclosed. If you follow the rules very close and add some of your own Ideas,
you Could become a really powerful magician in a short time of period, but
remember You must be constant in practicing daily and setting up goals
about yourself and Your magician career. Please read this book from cover
to cover and let us know How you do. We will appreciate your comments in
order to improve our service And bring you the most wonderful spells,
conjures and magick secrets existing In our universe. There will be a very
small introduction to the world of magick and Each of their brands.
We really look forward to hear from you soon,
Bogdan
And
Giancarlo

8
What is Magic?
Magic or how the real magicians call it, Magick, is the process of causing change to
transform the direction of different energies through the use of your will, Real Magicians
call it MAGICK just to differentiate the real magick from the Sleight of Hand and stage
tricks. The “K” was added by Aleister Crowley from “Kabbalah”.
In other words Magick is the guidance and control of energy to a desired destination or
goal. We can manipulate that energy and drive to different targets making changes to
occur. Magic is a main general term which has many different branches or areas within
it´s self. Some of the branches of Magick are Herbalism, Aromatherapy, Healing,
Shamanism, Elemental Magic, Sympathetic Magic and many others. Witchcraft is as
well an area of Magick which is generally based or called the area of Spell Casting.
The Rules Of Magick
Magick is not beyond or above life, but a natural though special part of your world. It is
about not leaving fate, your fate, to any guru or deity, but shaping it with your own
innate power, the power that emanates from some higher being, goddess or god,
energy source, what you will - the divine spark within us all. There are no absolutes in
magick, there is only what works for you and enhances your innate wisdom and
spirituality. You should use this book as you would any other DIY guide and adapt its
suggestions to suit what is right for you. Choose whatever you feel are the most
appropriate herbs, crystals or even entire rituals for your specific purpose.
There are provisos, however. You must always remember that the form, the words and
even ultimately the associations of particular oils, incenses and planetary hours are not
what really matters. The truly important thing is that you should keep to the basic rules
of witchcraft that are quite as strict and twice as hard as any conventional religion.
These are rooted in wisdom, compassion, honesty, honor and common sense and are
summed up in one short phrase: 'An ye harm none, do what ye will'. Put in modern-day
language, this means, quite simply
'Do whatever you like as long as you don't hurt anyone.'
Simple, did I say? It is in practice incredibly hard to harm none, especially if you are
seeking promotion, fighting against an injustice or struggling to survive. But it may help
you if you remember the other equally vital law of witchcraft, the Threefold Law. This
states that everything you do to others, both good and bad, will be sent back to act on
you with three times its intensity and strength. So, if you act always and only with
positive intent to help and heal, you will automatically receive all manner of good things
and you should become truly wise and happy.
According to the rules of magick, as I said earlier, you cannot be angry, mean or cruel
and then expect to say sorry to a deity and have the slate wiped clean. Magick is about

9
taking responsibility for your own actions all the time and that is incredibly onerous. But,
on the positive side, the results are equally potent, and if you can learn to tap into the
source of light and life and joy, you will amaze yourself and others by what is possible.
Thus will your psychic powers also spontaneously unfold and guide you in your
everyday world, increasing your spiritual power and wisdom.
The magick is within you, so let it flow and make the world a better place.
Witchcraft
As we told already witchcraft is an area of magic that deals with spell casting, healing,
fertility, protection and hexes. This area of magic specialize on techniques to improve
the life of the of the practitioner and those around them.
Wicca is modern witchcraft with some elements added from the Hindu religion – like the
belief in reincarnation…
Witchcraft probably originated about 25,000 years ago in the Paleolithic era. At that
time, humankind and nature were seen as inextricably linked. People acknowledged
every rock, tree and stream as deities in the life force, and the Earth as mother, offering
both womb and tomb.
Solitary Witchcraft
There are many reasons for performing witchcraft alone: your personal circumstances
or the location of your home may mean that you cannot travel to a group, or you may
live in an area where there are few others who share your interests. Many witches
choose to practice alone. Most solitary witches initiate themselves, though some
traditions, such as the Saxon Seat Wicca founded by Raymond Buckland in the USA,
do admit solitary witches.
Indeed, solitary practitioners are said by some to have been witches in seven previous
lifetimes and to possess within them all they need to know about the Craft. Truth or
myth, no one should underestimate the number of private practitioners who do work
alone, some coming together occasionally in small, informal groups. Solitary witches
can use ceremonial magick very successfully, but many do follow the less formal folk
magick, linked to the land and the seasons, that was practiced by our ancestors in their
homes. For this reason, some call themselves hedge-witches, from the times when a
hedge, often of hawthorn, bounded the witch's home, and it is sometimes said that they
are walking on the hedge between two worlds. Such a witch may be in the tradition of
the village wise women who knew about herbs and about the cycles of nature and used
the implements of their kitchens rather than ceremonial tools. She may also be gifted in

10
divination, in spell-casting and in astral projection. Usually a woman, but occasionally a
man, the solitary witch practices eclectic magick drawn from a variety of traditions.
Those expert in brews and potions are also called kitchen witches. Indeed, many of our
grandmothers and great-grandmothers who possessed a remarkable intuition, read the
tea leaves and made herbal concoctions, were jokingly called witches by their own
families - and were just that!
All the rituals in this book can be carried out by a lone witch. You have your choice of
groves, stone circles, the ocean shore, your garden or balcony, where you can connect
with the powers of nature and work unobtrusively. Whether you are working alone, or in
a group, or coven, you will share the same aims and will need much the same
equipment.
Tools And Treasures
You will need to collect some basic tools for your spells and rituals. If you are working in
a group, these can be kept either by different members or in a safe place and brought
out at meetings. They need not be at all expensive. Magick was traditionally carried out
with the equipment of the home: the broom for sweeping the magical circle was the
besom used for sweeping dirt (and negativity) out of the door and was stored with its
bristles upwards to protect the home.
The cauldron was the iron cooking pot on the black kitchen range that served to heat
the home as well as for cooking. Items often can be gathered from around your home:
for example, a silver bell, a crystal bowl or a large wine glass. Attractive scarves or
throws make ideal altar cloths. Car boot sales are an excellent source of magical
equipment. Keep your magical tools separate from your everyday household equipment
in a large box or chest, so that you can keep them charged with positive energies or
magical and healing work. Some items, such as the pentacle, you can make from clay,
and herbs can be grown in pots or in gardens and chopped in a mortar and pestle.
Fresh herbs have more immediate energies than dried, though the latter are better in
sachets and poppets.
Always bear in mind that the magick is in you, not in your tools, and a wand cut from a
fallen hazel or willow branch in the right hands can be more magical that the most
elaborate crystal-tipped one purchased from a New Age store.
Spell Casting
Spell casting is part of some, but by no means all, Wiccan activities. Most spells are
carried out with the purpose of changing someone's life for the better or sending healing
energies to others. For example, love magick could, if you wish to bring love into your

11
life, be focused on increasing the love in the world, thereby attracting love in its many
forms, and not just romance. More specifically, you may wish to attract one special
person, to deepen an existing relationship or bring back a straying partner. For this,
however, you would need to build into the ritual a proviso that this happening should be
right for that person as well as for yourself.
Modern witchcraft is all too aware of the need not to infringe on the free will of others.
As I have mentioned, binding or banishing spells work by lessening a negative influence
or by protecting potential victims, rather than by attacking a person, however destructive
they may be.
Witchcraft Within Covens
A coven is a group of members of a unit of witchcraft and, in fact, can number anything
from two to 13, or even more. The number 13 is traditionally designated by the 13 moon
cycles that make up one year, and 13 is the number of the Goddess (hence it became
unlucky under Christian influence).
Gardenerian covens generally number 13. Some covens are affiliated formally or
informally to specific traditions, but they increasingly unite for organizational as well as
legal and political strength, particularly in Australia and parts of the USA. On-line covens
are also springing up and they are an excellent way for solitary practitioners to gain
support and information. Reliable, bona fide covens will offer the same safeguards as
any ordinary coven, but of course the normal restraints you should show on contacting
any Internet site will apply.
The beginning of the path to learning about Wicca within a formal coven is usually
marked by a dedication. Initiation, after a year and a day, or a similar recognized
magical period, will confer formal entry. Further different levels of knowledge and
responsibility may also be involved, for example elevation to a second or third degree,
so that eventually initiates can begin their own covens if they wish.
Different Kinds Of Magick
What is certain is that whether folk customs or more formal ceremonies are used, the
underlying principles of all types of white magick are the same throughout the world,
and can be categorized under the following headings.
• 	Sympathetic Magick
This involves performing a ritual that imitates what you would desire in the outer world,
so bringing on to the material plane a desire or need or wish from the inner or thought
plane. This is done using appropriate tools and symbols. So in a spell for the gradual

12
increase of money, for example, you might grow a pot of basil seedlings (a herb of
prosperity) and light a green candle.
• 	Contagious Magick
This involves transferring and absorbing power directly from a creature or an object,
such as an animal, a bird, a crystal, a metal, the wax of an empowered candle or even
the Earth itself. This principle is central to the potency of talismans and amulets; for
example, traditionally, hunters might wear the pelt of a lion to bring them the beast's
courage and ferocity. So, by the same token, if you wished to become pregnant, you
might make love in a newly ripening cornfield (near the edge so as not to damage the
crops); alternatively, you might try one of the ancient power sites of Earth, close to the
phallus of the chalk Cerne Abbas fertility giant that is carved in the hillside at Cerne in
Dorset.
• 	Attracting Magick
This type of magick embraces both sympathetic and contagious magick to bring you
something you desire. For example, you could scatter pins across a map between the
places you and a lover live and with a magnet collect them, while reciting: Come love,
come to me, love to me come, if it is right to be.
You would then place your pins in a silk, heart-shaped pincushion or a piece of pink silk,
also in the shape of a heart, and leave it on the window ledge on the night of the full
moon, surrounded by a circle of rose petals.
• 	Banishing And Protective Magick
This involves driving away negative feelings, fears and influences by casting away or
burying a focus of the negativity. For example, you might scratch on a stone a word or
symbol representing some bad memories you wished to shed, and cast the stone into
fast-flowing water. Alternatively, you could bury it, together with quick-growing seeds or
seedlings to transform the redundant into new life.
• 	Binding Magick
Binding magick has two functions, one to bind a person in love or fidelity and the other
to bind another from doing harm. This may be done in various ways, using knots in a
symbolic thread, or by creating an image of the object or person and wrapping it tightly.
But all binding can be problematic in terms of white magick, for whatever method you
use, you are very definitely interfering with the person's karma, or path of fate.
However, it is tempting to think that if someone is hurting animals, children, the sick or
elderly, you may be justified in binding them. And what if your partner has deserted you
on the whim of passion, taking all the money and leaving you and your children
penniless? These are very real dilemmas; in dealing with them, I have always
performed such rituals adding the proviso"... if it is right to do so.

13
Elements of the Nature
Wiccans must have the knowledge of the forces and energies existing in the nature.
There forces are divided into 4 main energies:
• 	Earth
• 	Fire
• 	Air
• 	Water
• 	Spirit (Use as a fifth element by some traditions) mostly eastern ones.
Each of these elements has its own totem pole and beings that are native to each
element. They can be used for a broad variety of Magick. In general each element has its
own characteristics. All these basic attributes and their connection are define as follows:
Element 	Direction 	Attribute 	Color
Earth 	North 	Strength and Foundation
Air 	East 	Beginning, and of Thought
Fire 	South 	Change, Swiftness
Water 	West 	Life, Cleansing
Spirit 	Center 	Combing Force of All
There are other systems that use different associations for the elements and directions
The Tarot
The Tarot is a very old divination system through a base of cards. Tarot is mostly useful
to discover things that might occur over a short period of time. The tarot can be useful
for helping to decide the most convenient course of action to take and avoid any
negative energy. The Tarot deck of cards is consisted into two major groups:
1. 	Major Arcane: Consist of 22 cards and denote major forces and energies
affecting the person in the present time (Even when reading the cards.
2. 	Minor Arcane: Consist of four decks of fourteen cards each, and afford answers
to what is happening and why it is happening.

14
The Physics of Magic
This method describes how the universe is operating, as well as the primordial principles
that rule the operations of magick, or let’s say the physics of magick. These are the 7
principles of the system:
• 	The Principle of Mentalism
• 	The Principle of Correspondence
• 	The Principle of Vibration
• 	The Principle of Polarity
• 	The Principle of Rhythm
• 	The Principle of Cause and Effect
• 	The Principle of Gender
Energy: Planes of Existence
Remember, in Magick you can do as much as you believe, but that will depend on your
level of spiritual maturity and partly on the system of chakras. The chakras exist on more
than one plane. The planes of energy are divided into three major sections, Each session
has different small sections, and the differentiation that exists, is only in the human mind.
Each of the Major Planes is separated into seven sub categories:
The Physical Plane The Physical Plane is comprised of matter and is the
realm of physical existence.
The Mental Plane The Mental Plane is the real of thought and
consciousness.
The Spiritual Plane 	The Spiritual Plane is the realm of deity and The ALL
Beginning Magick
You can create magick in all kinds of ways and you can use it for an almost infinite variety of
purposes. Your magick can be solitary or group-based, self-centered or entirely altruistic. It can
be personal and informal, or it may be framed in rigid ceremony. But whatever kind of magick
you wish to practice, you will need to create a special place to work in, a personal area at home
for your private healing and personal development work.
• 	A Magical Place
When you were a child, you probably had a special place, perhaps a tree house, a den under
a table with a curtain draped over, or a corner of the garden hidden by bushes that only you
and chosen friends visited; in this place you wove your dreams and played with your
treasures. The magical place I am describing in this section is just such a special place, an
extension of and, in a sense, a return to that time of enchantment, for you are once again

15
making an area separate from the everyday world, where you can set up your special
artifacts.
But it will also be very different from your childhood place, because as an adult you can learn
to control and direct the energies that then ran free and unstructured. Your imaginings can be
refined as visualizations, your daydreams as altered states of consciousness; you can make
wishes and dreams come true, not just in fairyland but in the here and now. If you have
sufficient space, you may set aside a room, perhaps a conservatory, attic or basement, or a
sheltered spot in the garden for your special magical place. Alternatively, you may need to
use a corner of your bedroom or draw a velvet curtain across an area of a room where you
can be quiet and private. In the summer, I like to work out of doors at my caravan and go
down the winding track to the beach for my sea rituals (and puff and pant up again). In
winter, I work either round the hearth that is the focus of the small, dark family room where I
write, or high in the attic bedroom of my narrow house overlooking the hills.
• 	Altars
Your special place will need to contain an altar. To many people, the word 'altar' summons
up images of vast churches with golden crosses or B-movies with dark-robed figures
sacrificing damsels on a stone slab in the middle of a deserted moorland. But in magical
terms an altar is simply the term for a sacred work space on which you place your tools,
candles, incense and symbols for rituals. In practice, many people use their altar every day,
as a focus for quiet meditative moments, perhaps at the end of a busy day or early in the
morning. Such use does not make it any less special. Indeed, by becoming a part of your
daily world, it becomes charged with your own essential magical qualities, and provides a
repository of magical and healing energies, even if you only spend a few moments each
evening in personal, informal work. It is your place and the rituals you hold there are limited
only by your own desires and ingenuity.
• 	Setting Up Your Altar
You will need a large, flat surface for your altar; a table or a cupboard will do - you can use
the drawers for storage and cover it with a cloth. It does not really matter what shape the
surface is circles and squares are both sacred shapes and easy to divide into quadrants for
the four elements, Earth, Air, Fire and Water, that are central to traditional magic and play a
part even in informal rituals. A round altar, the shape of the sacred circle, works especially
well. If you do not have a suitable piece of furniture, a piece of uncut stone or unpolished
wood, such as hazel, ash, rowan or oak supported on stones or bricks will do. Ensure that it
is high enough, so that you are not constantly stooping. In good weather, if you have a
sheltered private place in your garden or back yard, you can adapt a tree stump or tall, flat
rock as your work space. But perhaps the best altars of all are those impromptu ones you
make - such as the top of a standing stone with a circle of your favorite crystals, or a rock on
the beach with a circle of seaweed and shells to mark the directions.
The altar need not be large but you will need to have room to move all the way round it.
Many rituals demand that you move in a circle with the altar in the center, although some
place the altar in the North of the circle and you stand to the South, facing North.
The central position of the altar/circle represents the realm of Spirit, or Akasha. Akasha is the
name given to the fifth element formed by the combination of the four ancient elements of
Earth, Fire, Air and Water that were considered in classical times to be the components of all
life and matter. It is greater than the other four.

16
In formal magic, artifacts and lighted candles are kept on an altar but this is not vital. It is
quite possible, even if you are using a communal room in an apartment or house, to leave
your altar partly prepared, although items such as salt and water are best added immediately
before a ritual so they will be fresh. A garden altar can be set with an outdoor candle or torch
and stone figurines, perhaps shaded by bushes.
Keep pot pound or living plants on your indoor altar when it is not in use to keep the energies
fresh and moving. If it feels stagnant, sprinkle an infusion of lemon or peppermint
widdershins, to remove negativity that has come in from the activities of the day, and then
deosil, to charge it with power.
You can also cleanse it with incense, creating a protective circle of pine or myrrh, again
widdershins and then deosil. Each night, or whenever you have time, you can explore your
inner psychic powers at your altar. For example, you can gaze into a candle or scry into a
bowl of water on the surface of which you have dripped colored inks. Try holding the different
crystals that you place on your altar and allow impressions to pass through your fingertips,
manifest as images, sounds or feelings. This psychic art is called psychometric and is one
that will emerge spontaneously.
You may, however, have a more specific aim in mind. For example, to improve your finances,
place a pot of basil herbs, surrounded by golden colored coins and light a green or golden
prosperity candle while visualizing golden coins showering upon you. If you have a friend
who is sick, and wish to send healing thoughts to them, place a photograph of them on the
altar, and surround it with pink flowers, pink rose quartz crystals and a circle of tiny pink
candles. Send your message of healing or visualized golden light, then blow out the candles
deosil, sending the energies to where they are needed.
When you are not carrying out formal magick, keep on the altar any crystals that are of
personal significance to you. You might wish to have a clear crystal quartz for pure energy, a
blue lapis lazuli flecked with gold for wisdom, a purple amethyst and rose quartz for healing
and harmony, or a gleaming, golden-brown tiger's eye for grounding. You can also keep
different herbs here according to your current focus.
• 	Empowering Your Altar
You can further empower your special place as a reflection of the positive aspects of your
changing life by placing on it other small items that carry happy memories for you. These
might include stones or shells found on an enjoyable outing, presents from friends or family,
a letter or even a printed email written in love, pictures or photographs of places and people
that are endowed with emotional significance. Holding these can restore the pleasure of the
moment and fill you with confidence, so they are magical objects because they are endowed
with the power of good feeling. Some practitioners keep a book, for example a book of
poetry, a copy of the psalms, the works of Shakespeare or the I Ching. Whenever you lack
inspiration, close your eyes and open your book – the page will be chosen apparently at
random but in fact your deep unconscious mind has chosen the most appropriate answer by
a process akin to psycho kinesis.
Occasionally, gently energize these personal artifacts by burning a candle scented with
chamomile or lavender. The domestic altars of many lands were originally the family hearth
and an unused hearth will serve well as an altar. They depended for their power on herbs
and flowers gathered from the wayside in the days before petrol fumes. Many witches who
have a hearth do still keep it well swept and fresh with flowers or seasonal greenery.
Between your altar candles you may like to place statues, a god and goddess figure from
either your own spiritual background or from a culture that seems significant to you; this will

17
balance the yang, or male, energies with the yin, or female. The god figure may be
represented by a horn, and the goddess by a large conch shell.
There are a great variety of deity figures in museum shops as well as New Age shops and
those selling goods from particular areas of the world. You may, however, feel more
comfortable with a ceramic animal, bird or reptile for which you feel an affinity: a tiger for
courage, an eagle for vision, a cat for mystery and independence, a snake for regeneration.
This is what Native Americans call our personal totem or power creature. You may find some
of these are, in some cultures, the symbols of divinities.
There is, for example, Bast, the cat-headed Egyptian goddess who protected women -
especially in pregnancy and childbirth - the home, pleasure and joy. Bast was originally a lion
goddess who symbolized the fertilizing rays of the Sun.
Casting A Circle
All spells and rituals, however formal or informal, are based on a magical circle. This may be
large enough for an entire group of practitioners to stand in, or it may be small enough to fit on
your personal altar. If you have the space, you can keep a magick circle marked out with stones
in a corner of your garden or painted on the floor of a room covered with a large rug. Attics are
especially good since you are nearer the sky. If you are able to keep a special area for your
circle, scatter dried lavender or pot pourri on it before each use, and sweep it in circles
widdershins to remove any negativity. Whatever the form or size of your circle, mark the four
main compass directions within it. In the marker positions, you can use stones, lines on the floor,
four crystals hanging on cords on the four walls or candles in the appropriate elemental colors.
Once you know your directions, you can mark out your circle, beginning in the North (although
some practitioners begin in the East), and working deosil. Draw your circle in one sweeping
movement. You may wish to chant as you go.
If you are working in a group, or if this is a circle for a more formal ritual, you may wish to add
god/goddess-power forms as an interspersed chant, with the voices of the group ebbing and
rising in waves. You may wish to welcome the Archangels, or Guardians of the Four
Watchtowers at the four compass points as you cast your circle. (The Archangels represent the
celestial beings that feature in the cosmologies of the three main religions of the Western world -
Christianity, Judaism and Islam.
You can embellish the casting ceremony as much as you like, perhaps drawing pentagrams in
the air at the four main compass points, and combining this with lighting the four elemental
candles. Some practitioners like to cast a circle and then welcome other members of the group
to enter, sealing the circle with a diagonal up-and-down slashing movement of their power hand
(the one they write with), or a wand or an athame. (An athame is a double-edged knife used in
formal rituals. It represents Air and is placed in the East of the circle.
As well as drawing circles, it may be used to conduct magical energies into a symbol.) But I think
it is more powerful if one person actually walks around the outside of a circle of people,
enclosing them in light. In this way, the circle is created in human dimensions and is as large or
small as is required by the actual formation. The circle made to fit the group is far better
magically than the group made to fit the circle, for the group is the circle.

18
If you want to visualize a circle, use a clear, pointed quartz crystal, or wand, or the forefinger of
your power hand, and draw an outline, in the air at chest level or on the ground. The circle
extends wherever you draw it from the ground upwards to above your head like a wall of gold.
Again, begin in the North, and continue in an unbroken, circular movement.
Remember, the circle is created with your own power, amplified if you wish by the sacred
Guardians or powers you may invoke.
Casting A Dual Circle
You can create a dual circle if you wish.
• 	First consecrate the salt symbolizing the Earth element in the North of the altar by stirring
it three times with an athame, wand or crystal, and visualize radiance pouring into it.
• 	Stir the water, also three times deosil with the athame, wand or pointed crystal, asking the
light and the Goddess to enter it.
• 	Add a few grains of salt to the water and stir it, saying:
May power thus be doubled,
thus increased,
as life joins life
to create a greater force
even than these.
• 	Stand either just within or beyond the first circle perimeter.
• 	Walk deosil round the circle, sprinkling the circle line, physical or envisaged, with your salt
water.
In formal rituals, the High Priestess consecrates the salt and the High Priest the water and they
mingle them. The High Priestess then creates the first circle and the High Priest the second.
Casting A Triple Circle
Three is a sacred number in magick and for special ceremonies you can create a triple circle of
both power and protection. The number three represents the three aspects of the god figure in
many religions: the Holy Trinity, the Triple Goddess, the three aspects of the Moon -maiden,
mother and wise woman or crone - the trefoil or triple god of the Celts, and the even older
Egyptian trinity of Isis, Osiris and Horus, the young Sky God. This triplicity is still celebrated
when we turn our money over and bow three times to the Moon for good luck.
• 	Create your first two circles of light and salt water.
• 	Return to the place where you began.
• 	Place the bowl on the altar and light your incense; you can either light a stick in a secure
holder or sprinkle incense on a charcoal block burning within the censer.
• 	Make your final circle with incense, just beyond the lines of salt and water. There are
other variations of this, including creating your outer circle of light by walking with your
candle in a broad-based holder, followed by the salt water and the incense.

19
Uncasting The Circle
When you have completed your spells or rituals, you should close the circle. This is done by
simply reversing the casting process.
• 	Thank the Guardians and send the light of the elemental candles to whoever needs it.
• 	Extinguish the elemental candles in reverse order of lighting. Visualize the light fading and
say, together with any present: Let the circle be uncast but remain unbroken. Merry meet
and merry part and merry meet again.
• 	Leave the altar candles to burn down.
Preparing Your Mind For Magick
As well as preparing the physical area for magick, you also need to prepare your mental state.
It is universally agreed that we have two hemispheres of the brain -the left, logical, and the right,
intuitive, side - and that generally in the everyday world the left brain predominates. This may be
no bad thing; after all, buying golden sunflowers and oils pressed from fragrant herbs may lift the
spirits, but they will do little for us if we are so disorganize that we fail to remember the cereal
and cat food and the yowls of hungry children and phones ringing through the early morning air
are not conducive to relaxation.
These demarcations within the mind have not always been so clear. Julian Jaynes, in his book
The Origin of the Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicarmel Mind, suggests that self-
awareness in humans has existed for only about 3,000 years. In stating this, he was defining
self-awareness as the awareness of our own separateness and our private thoughts.
This state of mind, normal in adults, is very different from the more primitive state of mind of
small children, who keep up a running commentary on their actions. But young children are also
incredibly skilled at mind-hopping and reading the thoughts of others. This is precisely because
they do not have the adult's strong sense of the individual and private self.
In so-called primitive societies, the individual does not have the same importance: it is the
collective responsibility that matters. So the rituals that are carried out to ensure the fertility of
the crops and animals and the community are performed in a group.
In a sense, magick is about using the bicarmel mind, placing the brain's right hemisphere in the
driving seat, taking concentration, focus and determination from the more logical side as fuel and
a map, and reconnecting our unified self with the undifferentiated universe.
You can carry out magick absolutely anywhere as long as you are in a positive frame of mind.
But many practitioners believe that by entering an altered state of consciousness, you remove all
the conscious blocks and allow the intuitive brain free access to the unconscious mind and with
it the repository of human and cosmic wisdom. This brings about a state of mind in which
energies can flow between the dimensions.
You are in your most relaxed state when your brain is generating alpha waves. They oscillate
about ten times per second (the range is eight to 13 cycles per second) and are less common in
our modern stressful lives. But they are naturally generated, for example, when you daydream,
or sit by a fountain and let the rushing water fill your mind, or gaze into a candle flame, or have a
lavender- or rose scented bath. Compare these with the traditional routine preparations of

20
fasting and ritual bathing of practitioners of the craft and you begin to see why these are
important. Invoking your protective angels to stand at the four corners of your magical circle,
performing the rituals of preparing your magical tools and, in more formal magick, casting a
circle - these are all ways of marking the limits of the everyday world and the entry into this
magical space in which all the normal laws are suspended. There are many ways of reaching
this state, techniques to still inner turmoil and outer demands that block the easy access to the
deeper psychic states.
At times when you feel unhappy, tense or anxious, you may need tranquility; alternatively, there
may be times when you need an infusion of power to meet a challenge, restore confidence or
gain energy when all you feel like doing is sleeping. Breathing in light and colors is a method of
creating a cone or vortex of power, that can be released as magical energy or healing power in
the cosmos. In addition, by absorbing the light of the Moon or Sun you may take in either
tranquility or energies for those moments when you are particularly in need. Perhaps you will
find yourself in an artificially lit building, crammed on a commuter train or rushing to get the
children to school and go to work. At such times you may feel like one of the hags from Macbeth,
ready to turn the entire carriage of commuters into toads - that's when good magick is what you
need.
A Moon Magick Ritual For Calm
• 	Wait until the Moon is moving towards full, and is quite bright in the sky.
• 	Find somewhere as dark as possible so the light is undiluted and slowly 'inhale' the light
through your nose, looking at the Moon and drawing its light towards you.
• 	Hold your Moon breath for a count of 'One and two and three'. Remember to say the
'ands' to stop yourself rushing - this is relaxing, not a race.
• 	Close your eyes and exhale the darkness of your panic, frustration or unhappiness.
• 	Continue alternately inhaling with your eyes open and exhaling with your eyes closed until
you feel that you are filled with silver light.
• 	Now gently exhale a little of that light in a single breath, this time with your eyes open,
directing it in your vision towards someone you know who is also feeling stressed or
anxious.
• 	Inhale more moonlight and continue to exhale, still with your eyes open, continuing to
direct the healing light.
• 	Let the Moon shine into a silver or crystal bowl of water. Before bedtime, tip the water into
your bath so you can absorb the Moon energies through your pores. Whenever you feel
stressed, visualize the Moon, close your eyes and gently inhale; peace will come to you
because you gave it out to others.
A Sun Magick Ritual For Energy
Because it can be dangerous to look directly at the Sun, catch your sunlight close to noon in a
large crystal or in water in a brass dish.
• 	As before, 'inhale' the sunlight via the crystal or water with your eyes open. Hold the Sun
breath, counting 'One and two and three', then close your eyes and exhale the darkness

21
of your doubt, anger or act of confidence. With practice, this will become a single
movement.
• 	Continue until you are filled with light and energy, then exhale a Sun breath, directing it to
someone ho is exhausted, frightened or ill.
• 	Inhale the Sun and again exhale it towards a person or people in need.
• 	Rinse your face in the Sun water, then tip the rest into the ground to energize a plant.
Whenever you feel tired, recall the Sun and inhale its light in your mind's vision. Repeat both
these intakes of power once every month. If you have a particularly stressful or challenging time,
hold a moonstone for your Moon energies in your power hand. Hold a sparkling crystal quartz for
the Sun in the other (receptive) hand to boost the flow as you visualize the natural sources. In
this way, you can balance the energies in both spheres of the rain for integrated mind and owl
flow.
The Different Sources of Energy
The place where we live is what we call the Universe, all around us is full of energy,
Energy can reach us in many different ways each and every single day of our life. There
are different kinds of energy, and some of them are:
• 	Light
• 	Sound
• 	Heat
• 	Gravity
• 	Radiation
• 	Radio Waves
• 	Television
• 	Ultraviolet Light
• 	Electricity
• 	And many others...
All different kinds of energy in our universe mixed up which generates that special energy
we call “Ether”. This is the great energy that interacts with all of the other types of energy
and within ourselves, This kind of Energy is what we call “Magic” or “Magick” and it
generates itself from different places:
1. 	The Energy that exist within ourselves
2. 	The nature and all physical things that are around us, like animals, rocks, plants,
objects, etc...
3. 	Energy from others planes of existence: Astral Plane, Mental and Spiritual Planes.
4. 	Elements from higher entities and divine sources.

22
Personal Energy
Our Body is a channel of Energy. The center of our energy system is our chakras. The
chakras are energy transfer points within the body, and are responsible for
regulating the energy field of the body. There are seven major chakras located along
the spine, 21 minor chakras (two are located in the palms of the hand), and there are over
101 other energy points located across the body. The chakras help to regulate the flow of
energy within the body and to form the auric bodies. The auric bodies are basically shells
of energy which surround the body. This energy field is known as the aura; some people
like to call it the Human Energy Field. More on this later.
The body stores energy for normal and magickal use. In addition, the body can channel
energy from outside sources to replenish itself and for use in magick. People tend to have
three types of internal energy:
• 	Life essence
• 	Normal energy
• 	Magickal energy
All living things and all items in creation contain energy. The ground, sky, rocks,
crystals, trees, plants, animals, elemental forces, etc., all contain energy. The combined
energy field of all things in creation can be tapped when working with magick. This
combined energy field is often referred to as the ether.
All living beings have the potential to be able consciously to transfer energy to
other people. This is most often seen through prayer and good wishes. Magickal people
can send energy to other people. This type of energy forms the third type of energy listed.
It is energy that is freely given.
To use energy, you must first learn to sense the energy and then to control those senses
Warning: Make sure you always rest enough and feel well before executing any of
the following exercises. Anyway Your body will tell you if you feel good enough to
go on with the exercises. Remember if you don´t have enough rest before doing
these exercises, it might be very dangerous. This is why many magicians who went
overboard died in the past… They simply executed a lot of rituals that were energy
intensive without the needed rest.
Sensing Energy through Human Touch
The human body is extraordinary, We can sense the energy in different ways. There are
several exercises that are going to teach you how to do that. Remember you must
practise all of the exercises every day for around 30 minutes in total, Once you feel one
goes right, then you pass on into the next exercise, but 30 minutes per day will be
enough.

23
First Touch Exercise
With this exercise you are going to learn how to feel the energy fields. The Chakras have
an important act within this exercises.
1. 	Place your hands together and in front of you, palms totally open and making
contact to each other.
2. 	Move your hands away, keeping the same position until they are 10 cm away from
each other.
3. 	Move back your hands together until they touch each other.
4. 	Move your hands away, keeping the same position until they are 5 cm away from
each other.
5. 	Move back your hands together until they touch each other.
6. 	Move your hands away, keeping the same position until they are 2 cm away from
each other
7. 	Repeat the last few steps a couple of times until you feel. You must have the
feeling that they are bouncing to each other
8. 	After you finish the exercise you must take a few minutes to write down what your
feelings were.
Second Touch Exercise
This is another kind of exercise associated with the auric fileds, you must take attention to
all the feeling experienced during this exercise.
1. 	Place your hands together and in front of you, palms totally open and making
contact to each other.
2. 	Move your hands away, keeping the same position until they are 1 cm away from
each other.
3. 	Pretend that you have a ball in the middle of your hand and move your hands
towards and backwards
4. 	While of your hands goes foward, the other one must go backwards.
5. 	Repeat step a couple of times and write down xour feelings
Third Touch Exercise
The exercise executed before were only you and your body, for this next exercise you
must have another person help you to make this exercise and you must have the
permission to feel that person
1. 	Execute first touch exercise

24
2. 	Put your hand about 3 centimeters above the arm of the person
3. 	Move your hand up and down until you start feeling the sense of that person. In
most of the cases you should feel same experience as in first touch exercise.
Fourth Touch Exercise
This feeling will get you along with stronger devices like Tv, electronic devices,
computers, etc. You will need a computer or a TV.
1. 	Execute first touch exercise
2. 	Put your hands 10 Centimeters away from the electronic device you are going to
sense
3. 	Slowly move your hands closer to the object until you touch it
4. 	Move your hand slowly away from the item and toward it until you sense the field.
Electronic devices will feel stronger than normal objects, sometimes it make take
you a little while until you dominates those objects but you will do it successfuly.
Sensing Energy by Sights
It is the ability to see energy in different colors, the more practise you get, the better and
more accurate it will become. It may take a while to develop, is some people will take
longer and other shorter, but if you practise you will develop that ability. To develop this
ability we have created a serie of exercise you must follow and practise with faith.
Sight Exercise
In order to execute this exercise, you will need a house plant.
1. 	Place the plant in front of the white paper and low the lights a little.
2. 	Sit Back and relax, concetrate your eyes into the plant.
3. 	Watch the plant and try to see over it
With practice, you should be able to see the energy field of the plant.
Sending Energy to Others
When making Magick it is really good to send energy to others, send positive energy to
heal, etc. This is a skill you must develop to become a great magician, Here is a great
Exersice that will teach you how to send energy to others.

25
Exercise 1 (Passing Energy)
Pass Energy to Another person through direct contact. You will need another
person to execute this exercise:
1. 	Stand close to each other.
2. 	Take the other person's hand in your hands
3. 	Feel and see the energy collecting in your hand—feel it as warmth or coolness.
4. 	Feel and see a white light or energy flow from your hand to the other individual.
5. 	Allow the flow to continue for as long as desired. When ready, feel the flow stop.
Write down what you felt during this exercise
Raising Power
There are many different ways you can use to raise power. Here´s a great way to raise
power
Raising Power Exercise
Cast a circle and lift the chair, I recommend 10 people to do this exercise
1. 	A chair is placed in the center of the circle.
2. 	One of the group members sits in the chair.
3. 	The other group members gather around the chair and place one finger beneath
the chair.
4. 	The group concentrates on the idea that the chair and individual are weightless
and chants "light as a feather (or some other such phrase)."
5. 	Everyone will lift the chair at the same time and hold it aloft for a few moments and
then gently set it down.
This exercise can be a lot of fun. DO NOT do this exercise while sitting under a ceiling
fan!—the results can be extremely surprising. Generally, the participants will be amazed
at how easy it is to lift the person using only one finger.
CANDLE MAGIC

26
One of the simplest of magical arts which comes under the heading of natural magic is
candle burning. It is simple because it employs little ritual and few ceremonial artifacts.
The theatrical props of candle magic can be purchased at any department store and its
rituals can be practiced in any sitting room or bedroom.
Most of us have performed our first act of candle magic by the time we are two
years old. Blowing out the tiny candles on our first birthday cake and making a
wish is pure magic. This childhood custom is based on the three magical
principals of concentration, will power and visualization. In simple terms, the child
who wants his wish to come true has to concentrate (blow out the candles),
visualize the end result (make a wish) and hope that it will come true( will power).
The size and shape of the candles you use is unimportant, although highly
decorative, extra large, or unusually shaped candles will not be suitable as these
may create distractions when the magician wants to concentrate on the important
work in hand. Most magicians prefer to use candles of standard or uniform size if
possible. Those which are sold in different colors for domestic use are ideal.
The candles you use for any type of magical use should be virgin, that is unused.
Under no circumstances use a candle which has already adorned a dinner table or
been used as a bedroom candle or night-light. There is a very good occult reason
for not using anything but virgin materials in magic. Vibrations picked up by
secondhand materials or equipment may disturb your workings and negate their
effectiveness.
Some magicians who are artistically inclined prefer to make their own candles for
ritual and magical use. This is a very practical exercise because not only does it
impregnate the candle with your own personal vibrations, but the mere act of
making your own candle is magically potent. Specialist shops sell candle wax and
moulds together with wicks, perfumes, and other equipment.
The hot wax is heated until liquid and then poured into the mould through which a
suitably sized wick has already been threaded. The wax is then left to cool and
once is this has occurred the mould is removed , leaving a perfectly formed candle.
Special oil-soluble dyes and perfumes can be added to the wax before the cooling
process is complete to provide suitable colors and scents for a particular magical
ritual. Craft shops which sell candle making supplies can also provide do-it-
yourself books explaining the technicalities of the art to the beginner.
Once you have purchased or made your ritual candle it has to be oiled or 'dressed'
before burning. The purpose of dressing the candle is to establish a psychic link
between it and the magician through a primal sensory experience. By physically
touching the candle during the dressing procedure, you are charging it with our
pawn personal vibrations and also concentrating the desire of your magical act into
the wax. The candle is becoming an extension of the magician's mental power
and life energy.

27
When you dress a candle for magical use, imagine that it is a psychic magnet with
a North and a South pole. Rub the oil into the candle beginning at the top or North
end and work downwards to the half-way point. Always brush in the same
direction downwards. This process is then repeated by beginning at the bottomed
or south end and working up to the middle.
The best type of oils to use for dressing candles are natural ones which can be
obtained quite easily. Some occult suppliers will provide candle magic oils with
exotic names. If the magician does not want to use these, he can select suitable
oils or perfumes from his own sources. The oils soluble perfumes sold by craft
shops for inclusion in candles can be recommended.
The candles you use can be colored in accordance with the following magical uses:
• 	White: spirituality and peace.
• 	Red: health, energy, strength, courage, sexual potency.
• 	Pink: love affection and romance.
• 	Yellow: intellectualism, imagination, memory and creativity.
• 	Green: fertility, abundance, good luck and harmony
• 	Blue: inspiration, occult wisdom, protection and devotion
• 	Purple: Material wealth, higher psychic ability, spiritual power and idealism
• 	Silver: clairvoyance, inspiration, astral energy and intuition
• 	Orange: ambition. career matters and the law.
If you wanted to use candle magic for healing, you would select a red candle to burn. To
pass an exam, burn a yellow candle, to gain esoteric knowledge burn a blue candle or for
material gain, burn a purple one. It is obvious these colors relate to the signs of the
zodiac and the planetary forces.
The simples form of candle magic is to write down the objective of your ritual on a virgin
piece of paper. You can use color paper which matches the candle. Write your petition
on the paper using a magical alphabet, such as Theban, enochian, malachain, etc. As
you write down what you want to accomplish through candle magic-- a new job, healing
for a friend, a change of residence, a new love affair, etc.-- visualize your dream coming
true. Visualize the circumstances under which you might be offered a new job, imagine
your employer telling you that your salary has been increased or conjure up a vision of
your perfect love partner.
When you have completed writing down your petition, carefully fold up the paper in a
deliberately slow fashion. the end of the folded paper in the candle flame and set light to
it. As you do this concentrate once more on what you want from life.
When you have completed your ritual, allow the candle to have completely burned away.
You do not need to stay with the candle after the ritual, but make sure that is safe and
that red-hot wax will not cause damage or fire. Never re-use a candle which has been lit
in any magical ritual. IT should only be used in that ritual and then allowed to burn away
or be disposed of afterwards.

28
If you are conducting a magical ritual which involves two people (e.g. an absent healing
for a person some distance) then the second person can be symbolically represented
during the ritual by another candle. All you need to do is find out the subject's birth date
and burn the appropriate candle for that zodiacal sign. These are as follows:
• 	ARIES 	red
• 	TAURUS 	green
• 	GEMINI 	yellow
• 	CANCER 	silver
• 	LEO 	orange
• 	VIRGO 	yellow
• 	LIBRA 	pink
• 	SCORPIO 	red
• 	SAGITARIUS 	purple
• 	CAPRICORN 	black
• 	AQUARIUS 	all colors
• 	PISCES 	mauve
Oils and Incenses in Magick
Oils and incenses, like herbs, are very versatile. The easiest way of attracting all the good things
you want not only for yourself but also for those you love and for those in need, is to burn oils
and to release the appropriate fragrances and let them work in their own way. You can choose
the appropriate oil for health, happiness, love, success, prosperity, confidence and protection, to
name but a few.
Oil Magick
You can use oils as part of a ritual. In traditional magick, oils are placed in the West of the altar
for the Water element, or the East, if lit, to symbolize the fragrance rising on the Air. But they can
equally form the focus of any spell, each oil being charged with its particular purpose before use.
There are many ways you can use oils magically as well as therapeutically: for example, you can
burn them in special holders (these are available everywhere from pharmacies, hardware shops
and supermarkets); you can sprinkle a few drops on an open fire or on cotton wool; you can pour
a little into a saucer and place it above a radiator; you can dispense them in sprays or in any of
the variety of condensers and diffusers that are available; or you can dilute them and use them
as floor washes.
Cautions
Oils are very potent and should only ever be used in accordance with instructions inside the box
from the manufacturer. There are also a number of good books on the market and I have listed a
few at the back of this book that will advise on correct dosage. Generally, oils such as lavender,
Chamomile, rose, rosewood and geranium are so mild that for an adult you can use up to ten
drops quite safely in a bath full of water. However, do not add more than three drops of

29
peppermint, lemon or Cedar wood, and no more than four or five drops of other astringent or
potent oils such as orange, pine, rosemary, tea tree and thyme to a bashful of water and follow
instructions carefully. You can also put a drop or two of the milder oils on a handkerchief or
inhale from the bottle, but again follow instructions to the letter. For children, use no more than
four drops of mild oil (lavender, Chamomile, rose, rosewood or geranium) in total in a bath; for
small children, do not use more than two drops and use only gentler fragrances such as
lavender or Chamomile (this is excellent for calming children). Some conditions preclude the use
of certain oils; this applies for use in baths, and for inhalations and massage. As with herbs, I
recommend that you should always check with your doctor before using any oils.
Epilepsy: Avoid sweet fennel, hyssop, sage, and rosemary.
High blood pressure: Avoid cypress, hyssop, rosemary, sage and thyme.
Pregnancy: It is best to avoid the following oils during any stage of pregnancy.
Angelica, basil, bitter almond, Cedar wood, clary sage, clove, fennel, hyssop, juniper, marjoram,
myrrh, peppermint, rosemary, sage, tarragon, thyme, wintergreen, yarrow.
Photo-Toxic Oils
Certain oils, particularly citrus oils, can irritate the skin if they are exposed to the light, and about
half of the normal amount of other oils should be used in baths and massage. Avoid direct
sunlight for six hours after use. They include:
Angelica, bergamot, ginger, lemon, lime, mandarin and orange. However, they are ideal for
burning and are all energizing.
Skin Irritants
Some can be an irritant to the skin and so should be used sparingly and well-diluted. They
include: Allspice, basil, cinnamon, clove, fennel, frankincense, lemon, lemongrass and
peppermint. Oils should never be taken internally and except for pure rose and lavender should
not be applied undiluted to the skin.
Oils and Incenses in Magick
To avoid repetition, I have only given a brief reference for those oils whose properties I
described in the previous chapter, for the qualities of a substance are the same in any form.
Benzoin: Benzoin reduces tension, stress, and melts away tension, anger, resentment,
emotional pain and frustrations. Positively, benzoin increases self-confidence and attracts
prosperity, both material and spiritual. It mixes well with rose, pine and lavender.
Bergamot: Bergamot soothes irritability and lifts depression or apathy, encouraging gentle but
honest communication and the manifestation of a person's true potential and inner self. A citrus
oil, bergamot mixes well with frankincense and ylang-ylang.
Cedar wood: Cedar wood is a symbol of both spiritual and sexual awakening or reawakening
perhaps after a period of loss or stagnation; excellent in meditation, it is an oil of youthfulness
and a long and happy life. It mixes especially well with cypress, juniper and rosemary.
Chamomile: Known as the children's oil and the oil of kindness, Chamomile is effective for every
childhood problem, including hyperactivity, general restlessness and sleeplessness - it is also

30
good for adults with similar problems. It mixes well with ylang-ylang, geranium, lavender and
lemon.
Citronella: Citronella is an oil of identity and independence, establishing the boundaries of the
unique self and repelling those who would dominate or intrude on privacy, whether personally or
professionally; it also creates invisible boundaries around the home. Citronella improves mental
alertness and dispels exhaustion and inertia. It mixes well with lavender and jasmine.
Clary sage: Clary sage calms and drives away fears and bad dreams in adults and children. It is
also an oil of inspiration and positively and, when problems loom large, replaces doubts with
unconsidered options and with an assurance that all will be well. It mixes well with ylang-ylang,
rosemary and lavender.
Cypress: Cypress is an oil of consolation after sorrow or loss, bringing acceptance, healing and
the power to move forward. It promotes understanding and compassion towards distress of self
and others. It mixes well with lemon, juniper and geranium.
Eucalyptus: This is an oil of purification of mind, body and soul, driving out negativity and anger,
as well as repelling deliberate psychological and psychic attack. Eucalyptus will provide the
impetus for action and decisions, especially when people and projects have reached an
impasse. The oil also offers clear focus and increased concentration. It mixes well with Cedar
wood, clary sage and peppermint. Fennel: Fennel is the oil of strength, courage and
perseverance. It mixes well with Chamomile and eucalyptus.
Frankincense: Frankincense is regarded as the most noble of oils, used in ceremonies and
formal celebrations throughout the ages and considered in many cultures to be a gift from the
deities, bringing healing and power. It offers confidence to aim high, attracting abundance of all
kinds, money and success, but also granting access to higher dimensions and contact with
angels and spirit guides. It mixes well with cypress, sandalwood and myrrh.
Geranium: Geranium is a harmonizing oil, restoring peace and well being to the home or
workplace, encouraging positive, non-confrontational interactions, reconciling quarrels and
melting away emotional coldness and indifference in encounters. It relieves tension, depression
doubts and despair, replacing them with gentle optimism. It mixes well with lavender, rose,
ylang-ylang, Cedar wood and Chamomile and indeed most other oils.
Ginger: Ginger is an enhancer of love, passion and money and encourages adventure and
innovation. It mixes well with bergamot, Cedarwood and jasmine.
Jasmine: Jasmine is an uplifting oil, boosting both physical and mental potency and increasing
love and passion. It deflects potential hostility, transforming it into friendliness and a willingness
to compromise. It mixes with most other oils, especially rose and ylang-ylang.
Juniper: Juniper is a purifying and cleansing oil, protecting against hostility and removing what is
redundant. It mixes well with rosemary, frankincense and cypress.
Lavender: Lavender is a harmoniser and brings love, kindness and reconciliation to any person
or place. It mixes well with almost every oil, but especially geranium, Chamomile, marjoram and
ylang-ylang.

31
Lemon: Lemon is the breath of life, bringing energy, clarity, logic and integrity. It is a light-
bringer, cutting through secrecy, doubt and dishonesty, and cleansing atmospheres and
attitudes. A citrus oil, it mixes well with Chamomile, eucalyptus, lavender and myrrh.
Lemongrass: Lemongrass will clear away negative emotions among family, friends and
colleagues, and past resentment and feuds from the past that no longer serve any purpose. It
removes also painful memories and helps to leave behind destructive relationships; lemongrass
also enhances psychic awareness. It mixes well with frankincense and geranium.
Lime: Lime brings health and well-being to self and to family and home. It generates enthusiasm
and triggers self-healing and regeneration in body and mind. It is protective against
psychological and psychic attack and has natural restorative powers. A citrus oil, it mixes well
with eucalyptus and lavender.
Mandarin: Mandarin oil restores confidence self-love and self-esteem, offering protection against
the barbs of unfair criticism, spite and gossip. It enhances inner beauty and radiance. A citrus oil,
it mixes well with Cedarwood, geranium, and ylang-ylang.
Marjoram: Marjoram is an oil that relieves loneliness and a sense of isolation and alienation,
awaking empathy with others. It is an oil of enduring love and fidelity. It mixes well with lavender
and rosemary.
Mimosa: Mimosa is an oil of the night, for secrets and secret love, bringing love and friendship,
especially for older people. It calms anxiety and over-sensitivity to criticism and brings harmony
and happiness, melting away opposition and hostility. It mixes well with bergamot and
Chamomile.
Myrrh: This is a sacred ceremonial oil, like frankincense, and is burned in healing and
purification rituals. It mixes well with mandarin, pine and patchouli.
Neroli: This is orange-blossom oil, symbol of marriage, committed relationships and fidelity,
fertility, sensuality and self-esteem. It prevents moods swings, crises of confidence and panic
attacks. It mixes well with geranium and jasmine.
Orange: Orange is the oil of abundance, joy and fertility, attracting happiness, giving confidence
and individuality, and calming anxiety and restlessness in children and adults.
A citrus oil, it mixes well with lavender and ylang-ylang.
Patchouli: Patchouli is the oil of prosperity and is used in money rituals, to bring employment and
increase business opportunities. It is also frequently used in ceremonies to heal the planet, as it
is a natural restorer of balance. It mixes well with geranium, myrrh and pine.
Peppermint: Peppermint offers protection against illness, accident, hostility and theft or damage
to the home and also attracts money. It mixes well with eucalyptus.
Pine: Pine is a purifier of all forms of negativity, hostile atmospheres and dishonesty, protecting

32
particularly against emotional blackmail. It is an oil of courage and perseverance under difficulty,
of integrity and clear focus. It mixes well with juniper, lemon and marjoram.
Rose: This is an oil of fidelity, happiness, partnerships and gentle healing, love and especially
self love. It mixes well with almost every other oil.
Rosemary: Rosemary is an oil for enhanced memory, concentration, justice, career and
success. It mixes well with Cedarwood, frankincense and geranium.
Rosewood: Rosewood calms mind, body and soul, creating a setting conducive to peace at
home or work, especially if there are difficult negotiations, or potentially hostile visitors or phone
calls; it will also clear away existing conflict. Rosewood soothes hyperactive or restless children,
and in adults brings acceptance of life as it is and the frailties of others. It is good for energizing
all forms of natural magick. Rosewood mixes well with jasmine, neroli and geranium.
Sandalwood: Sandalwood is an oil of passion and sensuality; it also heightens meditative
abilities and increases spiritual awareness, offering a path to make contact with the higher self
and angelic or spirit guides. It mixes well with many other oils, especially Chamomile, lemon,
patchouli and rosemary.
Tea tree: Tea tree is an oil of healing, especially absent healing; it will remove blockages in
energy, and banish negativity, replacing it with optimism and channeling restlessness into
positive aspects of life. It mixes with sandalwood, but is usually best used alone.
Ylang-ylang: The oil of poets, ylang-ylang is associated with inspiration and love, especially self
esteem. It counteracts a sense of frustration when things cannot be changed or achieved, and
increases confidence and pleasure in possibilities that can be realized within the limitations of
the present circumstance. It mixes well with clary sage, geranium, lemon and Chamomile.
An Oil Ritual To Increase Prosperity
As I have said before, magick is part of life and there is nothing wrong with carrying out rituals
for your personal needs and a little more. However, you must make an effort, when you are
financially more secure, to share your good fortune with those who are genuinely in need. As
long as you bear in mind the cosmic 'balance sheet', this will ensure that there are sufficient
energies to go round. You can, of course, pay in kindnesses and help, as well as in monetary
terms. It is unlikely that you will receive an unexpected cheque in the post the morning after this
spell (though I am getting rather good at bewitching one of my financial directors at a firm I work
for). Instead, you may suddenly find that you are given the opportunity to earn money through
extra unexpected work. Or you will hear of someone who wishes to sell a reliable car or a
serviceable computer in a hurry - just at the time when you need one. It would be churlish to
demand a computer with a built-in DVD player from the cosmos, but under the psychic exchange
system, all manner of good things that are no longer needed by one person can be directed to
someone whose old model has just crashed. It goes without saying that you should also
remember to redistribute items that are surplus to your requirements to keep the process
moving. Rituals for personal prosperity tend to be practiced alone, as group prosperity rituals
tend to work better with a more global focus. First, you need to define the purpose of the ritual.
In this case that will probably not be difficult if you have been lying awake at night, panicking that
you can't pay for a school trip for your child or new tires for the car.

33
Oils and Incenses in Magick
Once you have established what you require for your needs, find the right oils, using the list
above, the ritual is to be carried out over three consecutive nights. Work on the two days before
the full moon and the night of the full moon if you can, as this is the best time for energies of
increase. It is also a traditional planting time for herbs and vegetables that grow above the
ground. However, if you need money urgently you cannot sit around waiting for the moon to be
right, so burn silver lunar candles on each of the three evenings and picture the lovely ripening
Moon we see at this period in the sky, if the weather is clear. You can carry out the ritual at any
time of day, but you should try to choose a time that is quiet. If you can only work during daylight
hours, allow the natural light to add to the candle energies or draw the blinds.
You will need:
• 	An oil burner, the kind with a small nightlight underneath.
• 	Three prosperity oils. Good examples are patchouli, peppermint, ginger and sage. If you are
pregnant, use frankincense, orange and lavender. (Note that lavender is an all-purpose herb
that can be substituted for any other.)
• 	Symbols of prosperity, such as jeweler (golden-colored for the Sun, and silver for the Moon),
and some copper-colored coins for Venus, planet of growth, to add to your money jar. (Keep
a collection of foreign currency left over from holidays for such prosperity spells. You can
often also buy from garage sales or museum shops old or reproduction coins in the
traditional metals - such as the US silver dollar - and these tend to have more of the pure
metal. Failing this, even metal discs will do.)
• 	Three candles, beeswax, gold or rich blue.
• 	A small pottery jar with a lid to 'incubate' your money. (It is a good idea to collect a selection
of jars, small wooden boxes, glass bottles and pots as many spells require a container.)
• 	A small, flat tray or open dish in a silver or gold color. (Again these are often found amongst
unwanted memorabilia. Alternatively, cover an ordinary one with gold or silver foil.)
• 	A crystal pendulum or any crystal pendant that will swing freely. When you are ready to start
the spell on the first night, have a bath, with a few drop of frankincense or sandalwood
added, to open your psychic channels. Now prepare yourself for the spell.
• 	Sit in the South of your circle, facing North, the direction of magick and mystery.
• 	Let your body fill with light from your feet right through to your head.
• 	Breathe in the gold and silver colors of the items you have assembled and exhale darkness.
If you are in a hurry, just set up your spell and sit for a few moments drawing up power light
and energy through your feet. Extend your hands over your head in an arch, stretching your
fingers up so that the powers of the cosmos also enter, as you breathe slowly and deeply.
• 	Place your oil burner in the center of your altar or on any flat surface, together with your three
chosen oils (or you can work with a single fragrance if you prefer).
• 	To the South of it, set your money pot with the lid open and your coins.
• 	Place your symbols of abundance on the tray to the North of the dish.
• 	Arrange your gold, blue or beeswax candles in a triangle (this sacred shape represents the
Triple Goddess, the Holy Trinity and the Egyptian Isis, Osiris and Horus). The candle at the
apex of the triangle should be in the North, with the other two forming the base to the South,
so that the triangle creates a protective enclosure. If you have room, set your candles in
holders on the floor or in candlesticks on small tables or chairs at each of the points and have
the altar in the center. This is my preferred method and means that you are within the triangle
and can move all round.

34
• 	On the first night, walk three times in circles around the outside of the altar (or the floor
candles if you are using them), moving outwards, and pointing the index finger of your power
hand behind you almost horizontally. Visualize a stream of light emanating from your finger.
As you circle, chant:
Circle one I cast for the light of the Earth
and her store of rich minerals,
gold, silver, copper smelted in forges of volcanic fire.
Circle two I cast for the moonlit seas,
for silver dolphins, seals and
cascading rainbow fish.
Circle three I cast for the sunlit skies,
the clouds pure gold
and the gilt-tipped eagle soaring high.
• 	Light the candle in the North.
• 	Choose one of your three oils and, holding it in your receptive hand (the one you do not write
with), circle over it nine times deosil the crystal pendulum or pendant.
• 	Say three times, faster and faster:
Star, Moon, Sun and candle bright,
charge this oil with radiant light,
power of ginger [or name of oil] prosper me,
enter golden energy.
• 	After the third chant, let your pendulum swing freely on its chain so it spirals round, catching
the candlelight and, perhaps, the moonlight.
• 	Add the oil to the burner with a little water and light the nightlight under it.
• 	Take three of the coins from the dish - if possible these should be one gold, one silver and
one copper. Place them in the money pot and hold this briefly in the fragrance emanating
from the burner, saying:
Venus, Morn and Evening Star,
Sun and Moon that shine afar.
I ask in love and not in greed,
grant me only what I need.
• 	Place the lid on the pot and leave it in front of the burner, sitting quietly and visualizing
money coming to you. At this point you may become aware of money-making possibilities
you had not considered.
• 	When you are ready, blow out the nightlight, then the candle, sending the light into the
cosmos that it may return as money-making energies.
• 	Walk round the circle three times widdershins, beginning with the outer circle of light, drawing
the circles back like a thread into your fingers, saying softly:
May the circle be uncast
but remain unbroken.

35
• 	Leave everything in place except for the pot, which you should put in a warm place to
'incubate', traditionally on a kitchen shelf. On the second night, return the money pot to the
south of the burner and remove the lid.
• 	Cast the triple circle as before, then light the candle in the North and also the one at the
bottom left hand corner of the triangle.
• 	Take the second oil and charge it as before. This time you have dual candlelight to reflect in
your pendulum.
• 	Add your second oil and then the first one to the burner with a few drops of water. Light the
burner.
• 	Take six coins from the dish and add to the pot; if possible there should be two golden-
colored, two silver and two copper. Repeat the chant from the previous night.
• 	Place the lid on the pot, then sit and visualize the money coming towards you and develop
your plans to increase your prosperity.
• 	Blow out the candles and nightlight in reverse order of lighting, sending the energies into the
cosmos.
• 	Uncast the circles as before and return the pot to its warm place.
• 	On the third night, repeat the ritual, but this time light all three candles and charge the third
oil, adding a few drops of each to the burner for the cumulative energies. Add nine coins to
the pot, again three of each kind of metal if you have them.
• 	Uncast the circle, but do not blow out the candles. Leave them and the oil to burn through,
and only then put the lid back on the pot and return it to the warm place.
• 	Add a coin to the pot every day if you can. To empower the spell even further, you could also
place a pot of basil, a herb of wealth, to the East of the burner during the ritual and after the
three days, place the charged herbs on a window ledge to attract money. Do something
positive to help a person, animal or place on the day after the third ritual. It need not involve
money. You can re-light the oils at any time if energies seem sluggish and repeat the whole
ritual a moon cycle later for as long as is necessary. There may be a lot of negative vibes
swimming the other way, so persevere and be patient.
Incense Magick
Incense has formed a central part of religious and magical ceremonies for thousands of years in
lands as far apart as India and North America. It has been used for purification purposes, to
invoke angels and to bind or repel demons by medieval magicians. It is said to release specific
energies contained in its fragrance and to carry prayers and petitions to the god or goddess
figure being invoked. Since the 1960s, incense sticks, cones and burners have increased in
popularity for home use, to create an atmosphere of calm, to induce love and cleanse negativity.
Many people use them for meditation as well as for rituals for confidence, health, love,
prosperity, psychic protection and success. Incense is now on sale in floral fragrances as well as
the more traditional ones, such as frankincense and myrrh, and these are lovely both for home
use and folk spells. Our ancestors would have burned flowers and leaves to create the same
effect. Like herbs and oils, incense can be empowered for specific purposes and can itself form
a focus for a spell, as I describe later in this section. In formal magick, incense represents the Air
element and is placed in the East of the altar. It is perhaps the easiest and most accessible
magical substance and yet it can be a very potent form of magick. Incense burning differs from
lighting essential oils, in that the fragrance is transmitted almost instantly on the smoke and so

36
tends to be more concentrated and powerful than the slower-burning oils. It is therefore very
effective for rituals requiring immediate action or the same intensity of effort from start to finish,
rather than a gradual increase, perhaps of love or prosperity. There are two kinds of incense.
The first is non-combustible incense that is burned by smoldering it on charcoal blocks. This is
made from powdered herbs, leaves bark or even pine needles mixed with a gum resin such as
dragon's blood and has the advantage of producing clouds of smoke, brilliant for purification or
for the climax of a spell. You can buy this type of incense prepared as loose powder, chips,
granules or special paste, to burn on charcoal blocks or discs. Traditional practitioners often
make their own non-combustible incense, which can be very empowering, but it does take time
and can be messy.
To use this incense, place the smoldering charcoal block in a censer or thurible. Until you are
experienced you may find it easier and safer to place it inside the censer first, and then light it.
(A censer is simply a container for the charcoal. It may be a simple ceramic pot or a much more
ornate vessel made of gold or silver. I would not recommend that you use the kind of incense
censers on chains used in church services as the incense tends to go everywhere and can be
quite dangerous.) Add your incense gradually, about half a teaspoon at a time, once the
charcoal block in the censer is glowing but not releasing sparks. With practice, you will learn to
add the right quantity to ensure a steady but not choking stream of smoke as part of the ritual.
Many practitioners prefer to light it beforehand and just add a teaspoon of incense as part of the
ceremony or spell when they need a billow of fragrance. Incenses with a greater proportion of
resin and gum will last longer - hence the popularity of frankincense in religious ceremonies.
When working in a group, you can ask one person to top up the censer if necessary during a
long rite. If you are alone, make this part of your increasing power actions in a private ritual.
Practice using non-combustible incense before rituals and in time it will become as natural as
lighting a candle.
The second type of incense, which many practitioners, myself included, prefer to use, is
combustible incense, lit directly in sticks and cones. These are very difficult to make at home but
the commercially produced versions are quick and easy to use and the fragrance of the sticks
does not alter when burned. Some home-made incenses made from apparently pleasantly
scented flowers can smell foul when they are lit! Sticks and cones are very safe to use: just light
the tip, and once it is glowing, gently blow out the flame. This means there is no danger to
children or pets who may be around.
Incense is also sold as dhoops, pure incense in cylinders attached to long sticky ropes; these
come from India and can be burned in a flat dish. Long, broad incense sticks can be carried
when alight if you are careful. There are also many kinds of incense holders available. If you
have a holder that collects the ash, you can scatter this to the four winds to carry your wishes on
their way. Whatever type of incense you use, treat it as you would any other substance that is
ignited: read the instructions carefully before use and take normal precautions. Below I have
listed some of the most common forms of incense. Some you have met before in herbal or oil
form and so I have kept the associations brief to avoid repetition. You may also find a number of
these fragrances, especially fruit and floral ones, are available as scented candles. You can use
these in your spells to focus on a particular need or quality you wish to attract.
Incenses For Magick

37
Allspice
Allspice is used in spells for money, strength and action.
Apple Blossom
Use apple blossom for love, fertility, optimism, inner beauty and youthfulness. It is particularly
good in rituals concerning babies and children.
Avocado
Use avocado incense for desire, increase of beauty in oneself or the environment.
Basil
Basil is used in rituals for fidelity and prosperity.
Bay
Use bay for healing, prosperity, protection and marriage.
Benzoin
Benzoin is used in rituals for money; it increases mental powers and concentration.
Bluebell
Bluebell is used for faithfulness in love and betrothals.
Carnation
Carnation is used for strength, healing and family devotion.
Cedar/ cedar wood
Cedar and Cedarwood are best for healing and cleansing redundant influences and negative
thoughts.
Chamomile
Like its herbal counterpart, Chamomile incense brings money, quiet sleep and affection, and is
used in spells to do with all matters of the family.
Cinnamon
Cinnamon is for spirituality, success, healing, psychic powers, money, love and passion.
Cherry
Cherry brings new love and divinatory abilities.
Cloves
Cloves are used in spells for love and money; they repel hostility and improve memory.
Copal
Use copal for protection and purification; it is especially good for cleansing crystals.
Cypress
Cypress is for times of transition to a new phase, letting go of sorrow.
Dragon's blood
Dragon's blood is used for love and protection, passion and male potency.
Fern
An initiator of change, travel and fertility, fern will also bring hidden wealth, maybe in terms of
potential.
Fig
Use fig for wisdom, creativity and creation, fertility, harmony and balance.
Frankincense
Use frankincense for courage, joy, strength and success.
Freesia
Freesia increases trust, especially after loss or betrayal; it also brings belief in a better tomorrow.
GUM arabic (acacia)
Use gum Arabic in rituals for dreams, meditation, psychic protection and development.
Heather
Heather is used for passion, fidelity in love and good fortune; it maximizes opportunities and is

38
particularly effective in weather magick, especially rain-making.
Honeysuckle
Honeysuckle is used for money, psychic powers and protection.
Hyacinth
Hyacinth assists in overcoming opposition in love; it brings happiness and desire for
reconciliation.
Hyssop
Hyssop is used for making a love commitment, for healing and all forms of protection, especially
from psychic attack.
Ivy
Ivy is effective for fidelity, married love, permanent relationships and constancy.
Jasmine
Jasmine is used in Moon magick and prophetic dreams. It brings sensuality, money and passion.
Juniper
Use juniper for protection from psychic attacks and physical theft; for cleansing, healing and
house moves.
Lavender
Lavender is particularly good for love and reconciliation,
Lemon/lemongrass
Both repel spite, protect against malice and gossip; they bring passion and increase psychic
awareness and are good for those who travel.
Lemon verbena
Lemon verbena will break a run of bad luck; it brings love and protection against negativity.
Lilac
Use lilac for all domestic matters, acceptance of the frailty of self and others, and to ease
nostalgia; lilac cleanses negativity.
Lily
Lily is for purity and breaking negative influences in love; it is frequently used in Mother Goddess
magick.
Lily of the valley
Lily of the valley increases mental abilities, brings happiness and restores joy.
Marigold
Marigold is used for dreams and guarding against infidelity. It is effective in rituals concerning
legal matters, luck and money.
Mimosa
Use mimosa for protection, love, prophetic dreams and purification.
Mistletoe
Known to the Druids as the all-healer, mistletoe is for healing sorrows, overcoming injustice and
finding what is lost. It is also good for male potency.
Moss
Moss is used for good fortune, prosperity, money and permanence, whether in work or
relationships. It frequently appears in water magick and divination (use with candles on water).
Myrrh
Myrrh is good for healing, peace, protection and inner harmony.
Myrtle
Sometimes mixed with other fragrances, myrtle is used in spells concerning fidelity in love,
marriage

39
and mature love. It may also be used in matters of property and security.
Nutmeg
Use nutmeg for fertility and healing, especially of the environment; it will also bring a gradual
increase of wealth.
Orange Blossom
Beneficial for marriage and permanent relationships, use orange blossom also for restoring trust
and increasing confidence and hope.
Pine
Use pine for healing, fertility, purification, protection and money; it also returns hostility to the
sender.
Poppy/opium
Poppy may be used for divination, fertility and making oneself less visible in danger; it also
brings luck and sleep.
Rose
Rose is for gentle love, attraction, dreams of love and reconciliation. Rosemary
Rosemary is used for love and happy memories; it also improves memory and concentration.
Sage
Use sage in rituals for health, enhanced mental powers and wisdom.
Sandalwood
Sandalwood is effective for spiritual and psychic awareness and healing; use it also in matters of
sexuality.
Strawberry
Use strawberry for innocent love, friendship and happiness.
Tamarind
Tamarind is for love, especially new love, and the rebuilding of trust.
Thyme
Thyme is used in rituals for courage, divination, health, love, money and purification.
Vanilla
Vanilla brings passion and enduring love; it also increases mental powers.
Vetiver
Use vetiver for love. It can also break a run of bad luck and bring money. It is protective against
theft and all kinds of negativity.
Violet
Use violet for secrecy, modesty and uncovering hidden talents.
Combining Incenses In Rituals
As well as the single fragrances, there are many commercial products that combine several
basic fragrances to evoke a particular mood, for example morning dew, raindrops and emerald.
You can experiment with these and find those that seem right for your life or, if you make your
own noncombustible incenses, you can combine a number of single fragrances to your own
personal recipes. But it is quite possible by using a number of individual fragrance sticks in the
same ritual to combine their energies and, more importantly, create exactly the proportions of
specific energies you need for a ritual. For example, you might burn a rose incense for love with
a cinnamon incense to add passion and energy to that special, loving relationship. The amount
of incense used for each quality determines your priorities, so, in this case, if loving energies
were the prime focus, you would burn two rose incense sticks or cones and one cinnamon. You
can also do this with your oil mixes.

40
A Six-Incense Ritual For Love
Six is the number of Venus in her morning star aspect of love. You can use this ritual for
attracting love, for deepening a relationship, consummating it or strengthening it during a difficult
period, perhaps when everything appears to have got into a rut. You can alter the focus of the
ritual by varying the number and type of each fragrance you use, for example whether your
primary concern is to increase trust, passion or encourage fidelity.
This ritual is best carried out early in the moon cycle, any time from when you can see the
crescent in the sky. In the ritual, I refer to a pentagram, a magical symbol that can be used for
attracting energies or closing them down in ritual magick. Its uses can be varied according to the
way it is drawn. However, in this ritual, it is the shape that is important, so just imagine the shape
as illustrated overleaf, with its single point at the top. Arrange five of your incense sticks as
though on the points of this invisible pentagram and put the sixth in the center as the
combination and synthesis of the different powers.
First, gather together the tools you will need.
• 	A candle of the appropriate color for the type of love you wish to focus on: pink for new love,
green for increasing commitment and faithful love, or red for passion and the consummation
of love.
• 	A gold or silver ring or, if you prefer, one made of copper, Venus's own metal.
• 	A small white cushion or piece of white cloth.
• 	Six incense sticks of appropriate fragrances and separate holders to catch the ash.
• 	Ivy or any green fronds; if you cannot obtain any, green ribbon will do. Ivy is a plant
associated with fidelity and permanent relationships.
Now begin your ritual.
• 	Place your ring in the center of your altar, on the white cloth or cushion.
• 	To the left of it (towards the West, the direction of love and emotions), place and light the
candle.
• 	Take your incense sticks one by one, and light each in the candle, reciting: Incense of love,
incense of power, thus do I charge thee, now at this hour.
Incense of faithfulness,
incense of truth, bring love
that will last, in age and in youth.
In sickness and sorrow, in health and in joy,
in wealth and in dearth, may nothing destroy.
• 	Beginning at the single (top) point of your invisible pentagram, light your first incense, saying:
I light this incense
to bring love into my life
and the one who is right for me.
• 	Moving deosil, light and place the second incense on the next point of the invisible
pentagram, saying:
I light this incense that I may give love where it will bring joy and bear fruit.
• 	Continuing deosil, light and place the third incense at the next invisible point, saying:
I light this incense for the increase of that love and for mutual fidelity and respect.

41
• 	Light and place the fourth incense, saying:
I light this incense for the marriages of mind and soul as well as body, in a union that is beyond
any legal bonds.
• 	Light and place the fifth incense, saying:
I light this incense that love will always be willingly given and received and
never become possessive or manipulative.
• 	Light and place your final incense to the East of the ring, saying:
I light this incense that love will be compassionate, ever supportive, accepting of frailties and
based on love of the real person, not worshipping the ideal of loving, nor demanding the perfect
lover.
You can adapt the pledges according to the focus you give the ritual and even rewrite them
entirely to express your purpose.
• 	Take the ring and pass it through the six incenses in turn, saying for each ring of faith:
Love I pledge, truth I offer, care and kindliness. Ring of promise, love I ask, truth I seek, into
eternity if right may it be.
• 	Return the ring to the center, and bind it with six loose knots of ivy or ribbon, saying:
Do not bind,
join heart and mind,
Hold safe we two,
till life is through,
Love without end,
my dearest friend.
I call you - [name the person, or say 'love unknown'].
Again you can adapt the words. A pledge of fidelity is actually a very potent way of attracting a
new lover - perhaps someone who works close to you whom you have not thought of in a
romantic way.
• 	Let the candle and incense burn through and then collect the incense ash in a pot or jar with
a lid.
• 	Sleep with the ring and ivy next to your bed on the cushion and in the daytime surround it
with white flowers.
• 	When you have time, take the ash to the top of a hill or any windy place and scatter it to the
four winds, saying:
Go Free In Love And Return In Joy
You can carry out the spell on a larger scale by placing the ring, the candle and one large
incense stick on your altar in the center of the invisible pentagram. Place the other large incense
sticks on small tables, chairs or blocks at the other points and work within the pentagram. You
could even use garden incense and carry out the ritual in a sheltered spot out of doors, maybe
even picking your ivy and white flowers during the ritual.

42
A Ritual For Harmony
This ritual can be used when, for example, a colleague, family member or friend is intruding in
your life, but you do not want to hurt their feelings. It can be very successful if you have received
one too many phone calls or visits at inconvenient moments from a friend or neighbor. It may
help to ward off constant interference in your projects by your boss or a colleague at work, or
possessiveness that is not malicious but comes from loneliness in a close relative, a child or
even your partner. You can carry it out before going to work or when you anticipate the arrival of
the person. It is much kinder than a traditional binding spell as it preserves the positive aspects
of the relationship.
• 	Light deosil a circle of lavender and rose incense sticks for love and kindness.
• 	Fill a pot or a small cauldron, or any heatproof dish, with sand and in it stand a single orange
candle for independence.
• 	Take a long piece of red thread and tie nine loose knots around the base of the cauldron to
represent the tangled emotions, saying as you tie the knots:
Bind and wind nine times through, bonds that stifle, tangle, twine, bind unwilling me to you.
* Cut through the knots one at a time, using a knife (not scissors), saying:
Ties so binding,
Cut right through,
Guilt unwinding,
Freedom finding,
Loving you,
Not what you do.
• 	Light your candle, saying:
Light of self, burning true, I am me and you are you. Light of friendship, light so kind, free in
heart and soul and mind.
• 	Now burn each of the knots in the orange candle so they drop into the sand, saying:
Free to live in harmony Caring still, but separately.
This is also a good ritual if you are separating or divorcing from a partner but need to maintain
friendly contact, perhaps because you work together or have joint family or financial
responsibilities.
Crystals And Protective Magick
Whether you are carrying out spells, rituals or divination or are simply feeling anxious, vulnerable
or under attack from inner or external forces, psychic protection can enclose you in light and
keep out all that threatens your harmony. It is a very positive form of magick that for everyday
use requires a basic ritual or visualization that takes only a minute or two. Some people carry out
routine psychic protection when returning from work and in the morning as naturally as taking off
their work clothes and having a bath, to shed the pressures of the day. You can also with
practice learn to cast protection round those you care for: a child who is being bullied or an
animal or bird that is endangered, an area of natural beauty under threat from developers or a
group of people who are being unfairly targeted. Of course you can't save a rainforest single-
handed because there will always be a vast tide of despoiling vibes flowing in the opposite

43
direction. But as has been shown by events such as World Days for Peace and the experiments
on the power of prayer, if enough individuals send out positive intentions, followed by peaceful
action, then people power really does make a difference. There is, as ever, just one proviso: you
must remember the Wiccan Rede, An it harm none, do what you will', and apply it rigorously.
I am often asked to carry out protective spells for people who feel that they are the subject of
unfair scrutiny, jealousy, anger or resentment. This may be manifest as deliberate malice, a
muttered curse or a declaration of some vengeful intent. But more usually the origins are more
obscure, perhaps coming from someone gossiping or lying in bed at night, fuming over an
achievement or good fortune enjoyed by their supposed enemy. A whole tradition of 'evil eye'
superstitions and antidotes grew out of such envy and bad wishing. If you are to help counteract
this kind of bad feeling, without causing harm in return, it is best to resort to some kind of
protection. Note that you do not have to identify the sender of bad vibes in order to protect the
victim. You will usually know who it is, as in most cases there is a likely candidate, and very
frequently the wrongdoers give themselves away as they cannot resist the satisfaction of
checking the effect of their unpleasant actions. Don't be tempted into direct retaliation, however -
remember the Threefold Law. The same tools and methods of protection can be used whether
you are protecting a cat from an aggressive, stone-throwing neighbor or whales in a distant
ocean from marauding fishermen. These include herbs, oils and incenses, made into sachets
and poppets used in rituals Salt, sacred water and wax amulets may also provide protection.
One of the most potent methods of protection is through the use of crystals
Crystals
All crystals have innate protective qualities as well as healing and empowering properties and so
can offer instant harmony and energy even in the most draining situations.
Collecting Protective Crystals
Certain crystals have, over the millennia, from Ancient Babylon, Egypt and the Orient, acquired
the reputation of possessing strong protective qualities and are also usually potent in
strengthening and healing. These include amber, black agate, amethyst, bloodstone, carnelian,
garnet, jade, black and red jasper, jet, lapis lazuli, tiger's eye, topaz and turquoise. However, as
you work with crystals and stones, you may discover that a particular crystal or even a stone
from the seashore fills you with calm and confidence; if you carry or hold this at times when you
feel vulnerable, it will increase in power the more you use it. Build up a collection of small
protective crystals with which you can ring your bed for quiet sleep or place around your home or
workplace to absorb the negativity of others. Buy or make a dark silk or natural fabric drawstring
bag or purse in which you can carry a single protective crystal, or your crystal pairs, whenever
you leave home. Place them in the four corners of a room that always seems dark or
inhospitable. Set crystals at the four corners of the table where you are carrying out divinatory or
psychic work to act as a psychic shield from negativity or debilitating emotions.
Balancing The Energies
Crystals can be used in pairs to balance energies and restore equilibrium to a person or
situation. This little piece of magick is particularly useful when you are under stress. Simply hold
a dark crystal, such as a smoky quartz or apache tear, in your power hand and a clear crystal
quartz or a golden citrine in your receptive hand, and close your eyes. You will feel the
adrenaline surge and panic flowing away, leaving you calm and protected, able to deal with any
situation. I always keep a couple of suitable crystals in my hand luggage for difficult moments
when traveling -crowded trains, delays, especially late at night when I feel very vulnerable, and

44
even small enclosed lifts, which I hate, having become stuck in one when I was heavily
pregnant. You could also buy and wear a pair of small, jeweled pins containing crystals, or two
lapel brooches fastening the two sides of your scarf, or odd cufflinks with balancing crystals.
(Who knows, you may even find you start a trend...)
Charging Your Crystals With Positive Power
All crystals contain power as well as protective qualities and cleansing is itself empowering.
However, if you are being subjected to stress or harassment of any kind, you might like to
charge your crystal, so that when you touch or look at it, you will be enclosed in its radiance and
stimulate your own innate self-protective power. Your charged crystal acts as an amplifier for
your own inner radiance and self-confidence and will repel any hostility.
My own favorite method is to wrap the crystals in white silk and take them to a sacred place of
ancient power, such as a standing stone, an old stone circle or one of the ancient healing wells.
Go as early in the morning as possible and place the crystals on a flat surface, either on one of
the stones or close to the water. Sit near to the source of power, touching it with your two hands
so that you create a circuit of energy parallel to that being absorbed by the crystals and so
empower your own auric field (the area of psychic energy that exists around our bodies).
Auric fields contain different colors; they can be seen spontaneously by clairvoyants but anyone
can, with time and practice, interpret auras, which change according to a person's mood and the
influences on it. After about ten minutes you may detect a slight luminescence around yourself
as well as the crystals. Your crystals will now be charged and can be placed in their drawstring
bag. When under stress, touch your chosen crystal for strength and protection. Keep it on your
desk at work, place it between you and an adversary or next to your bed if you are troubled by
bad dreams or fear psychic attack or malevolence at night. People living in areas with high rates
of robbery and violence may wish to put a power crystal, such as turquoise, red jasper or
carnelian, as a protective buffer near external doors and windows. In less extreme
circumstances, charged rose quartz and amethyst are excellent for sleep and relaxation
problems, for charging simply accentuates the innate calm energies of the crystal.
With the gentle crystals (such as amethyst, rose quartz or smoky quartz), you will experience a
gentle warmth and enclosing light of pink, green or purple according to the color of the crystal.
But with the power crystals (such as clear crystal quartz, citrine or carnelian), you may see with
your psychic vision sparks of gold emanating and enclosing you in a protective shell. Anyone
who approaches in a confrontational way may stop and back off. The crystal is not hurting them,
it is just strengthening your own boundaries against intrusion.
If you cannot visit an ancient site to charge your crystals, hold a crystal pendulum up to bright
sunlight, or in front of a fiber optic lamp, and swirl it so that it catches rainbows. Hold your
pendulum in your power hand. With your other hand, hold the crystal beneath the pendulum so it
catches the light, and turn your pendulum over the crystal nine times deosil to absorb power.
Another method is to take your crystal out into the light of the full moon (the two or three nights
leading up to the full moon are also powerful). Hold your crystal up so that the light of the Moon
shines on it. Alternatively, fill a bowl with water and place it in the open air so that the Moon is
reflected in it. You can then bathe your crystal in empowering moonlight and leave to dry.
You can also bathe a crystal in sunlight; I find the Moon method more gently empowering for
crystals that are primarily intended to act as guardians. But experiment, as Sun water may be
best for you.

45
Protective Crystals
The following crystals are those that I, in my personal work, and people with whom I have held
healing workshops or teaching sessions have found especially protective. They will absorb
negative energies emanating from both fears and doubts, and repel external attack, replacing
darker feelings with positive emotions and intentions.
To benefit from the protective powers of a crystal, you can carry or wear it, or keep it close to
you at work, at home or when you travel. You can also add a crystal to your bath water.
Alternatively, you can soak it in pure spring water overnight and drink the crystalline water in the
morning or carry it in a small bottle to splash on your face and wrists at stressful times.
Agates
These bring stability, security, emotional and physical balance and acceptance of self and others
as they are. Agates are said to be good in all colors for reducing effects of harmful rays, pollution
and all forms of psychic, psychological and physical attack. Black agate absorbs negativity,
repels psychic attack, irrational thoughts and words, and promotes acceptance and tolerance of
differences in others. Blue lace agate is a natural peace-bringer and protects against harsh
words spoken by self or others. Moss agate (clear with green, moss-like tendrils) is the stone for
protecting against pollution and deforestation. Plant a circle of them in the soil of a tropical plant
and each day visualize healing rays being sent to the rainforests. Moss agate also protects
against food cravings and obsessions.
Amber
Known as the honey stone, because of its great antiquity and soft, warm touch, amber is said to
contain the power of many suns and has the power to absorb negativity and protect the user
from harm. It will also melt any emotional or physical rigidity.
In the Chinese tradition, the souls of tigers pass into amber when they die and so it is also a gem
of courage in the face of unfairness or hostility. Above all, it protects children, especially from
falls and bullying, and increases their self-esteem (coral also does this).
Brilliant for soothing anxiety and creating a golden shield of protection that mingles power with
kindness and a sense of perspective, amber is said to protect wearers from pollution, both
industrial and technological.
Amethyst
Amethyst is one of the best healing and protective stones. Egyptian soldiers wore it in battle so
they would not panic in dangerous situations and so it is an ideal crystal to calm children and
adults and to keep away night terrors. The Greeks believed that amethyst prevented the wearer
from drunkenness -amethysts means 'not drunken' - and so it protects against excesses not only
of alcohol, but of those who seek to dominate through greater strength or status, at work or
socially. Worn during sleep, it prevents insomnia, and when carried throughout the day, it
reduces anger and impatience in self and others.
Apache Tears (Obsidian)
These small black globules are so-named after a tragic incident in Arizona. A group of Apaches
were ambushed by soldiers. Many were killed and the rest threw themselves over a cliff, rather
than be taken prisoner. The women and maidens of the tribe wept at the base of the cliff for a
whole moon cycle and their tears became embedded within obsidian crystals in the rock.
Apache tears protect against treachery, deep sorrow and are especially potent in protecting

46
persecuted minorities whether these are people, endangered species or places. They ease and
release physical and mental pain, loss, sadness and anger, allowing the user to move forward.
Apache tears are particularly powerful for protection against one's own fears of frailty, mortality,
loneliness and loss of any kind.
Beryl
A crystal of the Sun, beryl drives away inner fears and repels external threats and malevolence,
increasing confidence and a sense of well being. In its golden form it is excellent for creating a
shield of golden sparks around you in difficult situations where there are too many factors or
conflicting demands to assimilate and you feel overwhelmed. Deep blue beryl is used for crystal
balls. It offers inner peace and the courage to stand against bullies and autocrats, but allows you
to be generous to the petty-minded. Pink beryl (morganite) offers gentle protection for children
and animals and encourages compassion towards our enemies.
Bloodstone (heliotrope)
The red spots of bloodstone were, according to legend, formed from the blood of Christ as it fell
on green jasper at the crucifixion and so it is traditionally used in icons and religious carvings. In
Ancient Babylon, bloodstone was used in amulets for protection against enemies and has been
carried by soldiers in many cultures to overcome fears, to prevent wounds or stop bleeding. It is
good for deflecting cruelty, spite and malice and for situations in which the fears are real and the
opposition great. Travelers may carry this stone to protect against accidents or attack.
Carnelian
Though most usually a translucent, vibrant red or orange, carnelians can also be yellow or
brown. In any shade, carnelians have traditionally been regarded as the stones of courage and
self-confidence of leaders, and those who wish or need to be leaders should wear one around
the neck or in a ring. They are powerful against all forms of malevolence and danger, repelling
envy in others. Most of all, carnelians protect us against ourselves and our own weaknesses.
Coral
Coral is an organic gem, usually pink, red or orange, and is known as the protector of children.
Coral has been a children's stone from the time of the Ancient Greeks when Plato wrote that it
should be hung around children's necks to prevent them falling and to cure colic, and rubbed on
the gums to help painless teething. It is good for all children's fears and against threat to their
person or self-esteem. It is also protective for adolescent girls, pregnant women and new
mothers, and invokes kindness and gentleness in others.
Garner
Usually a deep, clear red, garnets are the ultimate protective stone. Eastern European peoples
used the garnet against illness, night phantoms and all forms of manifest evil, including the
mythical vampire. In medieval times, garnets were engraved with a lion's head for health and
safe travel; however, being a brittle stone, this was not easy and the few that did not shatter
were highly prized. It is still regarded as a stone to be carried by travelers, especially for
protection against attack. Like the emerald, it will change color if danger is near. Garnets also
provide energy for difficult tasks when rest is not possible. Avoid using garnet when you are
feeling angry, as it will amplify these feelings.

47
Jade
A stone that protects against ill-health and poverty, jade is another very gentle stone that is said
to contain great deal of the undiluted life force. It connects the user with Earth energies and
offers protection from injury and accidents, especially during travel. It is a good stone for rituals
to heal the planet.
Jasper
Jasper is, like agate, a powerful grounding and earthling stone and protects against fears as well
as external danger. Black jasper is protective against all negative sources and especially the
user's own repressed feelings. It is good for absorbing anger. Brown jasper offers stability in
turbulent times; it is good to use after rituals. Green jasper protects against jealousy, increases
empathy with others' difficulties and soothes bad dreams. Red jasper is naturally defensive
against external hostility and danger.
Jet
Jet is, like amber, an organic gem of great antiquity. It is actually fossilized wood that has been
turned into a dense form of coal. Travelers and fisher folk benefit from its protection - in past
times, the wives of sailors would keep a jet amulet safe at home so that their husbands would
return safely from the sea. It protects all who travel by night, alone or in lonely places, and older
people in all aspects of their lives. It guards against bad dreams and endows the wearer with the
emotional strength to face the ending of a natural phase.
Lapis lazuli
Known as the eye of wisdom and the stone of the gods, lapis lazuli jewelers is mentioned in an
Ancient Egyptian papyrus dating from over 3,000 years ago as having healing powers. The
Sumerians believed it contained the souls of their gods and goddesses and as such would
endow them with magical powers, and the goddess Ishtar was famed for her beautiful necklaces
of this crystal. In Egypt, lapis lazuli was first used in a powdered form for eye make-up as
protection against the evil eye. Lapis lazuli counteracts insomnia and the inability to
communicate, and is a powerfully protective stone against all pettiness, spite, injustice and unfair
officialdom. It offers the courage and clarity to win through, however seemingly powerful the
opposition, but it demands nobility of purpose in its users. Lapis lazuli is good for healing both air
and water pollution and for world peace.
Malachite
A purifier and energizer, malachite will replace negativity with positive energies. It cleanses the
auric field around people, animals, plants and places. Malachite will absorb pollution and, it is
claimed, harmful rays from computers and televisions. It is especially effective if a crystal is
placed in the corners of a room where white electrical goods are being used. Because it is so
powerful, malachite should be cleansed at least every two days.
Rose quartz
Rose quartz is the stone of gentle healing and protection. It is known as the children's stone
because it is so gentle in soothing away childhood ills and sorrows that may haunt us into
adulthood. It is good for protecting families, the home, pets and anyone who is ill or vulnerable.
It promotes family love and friendship, and brings peace, forgiveness, emotional harmony and
the mending of quarrels. It heals emotional wounds and heartbreak, grief, stress, fear, lack of

48
confidence, resentment and anger. Rose quartz will keep away nightmares and night-time fears.
Cleanse and recharge it frequently, especially if the color begins to fade.
Smoky quartz
This is traditionally associated with removing negative influences on the user. It can promote
physical health and galvanize our shadow side, transforming anger and resentment into positive
action, rather than leaving us to deny negative feelings or project them on to other people. It is a
powerful stone to use when one's survival, either professional or personal, is an issue. Smoky
quartz also counteracts self-destructive impulses.
Tiger's eye
A brown or red translucent stone (the green and blue versions are cat's, falcon or hawk's eyes),
tiger's eye combines the powers of the Earth with the deep instinctive ability to survive life's
challenges. Throughout the ages, tiger's eye has been a talisman against the evil eye. Roman
soldiers would wear engraved stones as protection from death and wounding. Tiger's eye is also
associated with practical aspects of life and enhances the five senses. Thus it can alert us to
physical danger as well as potential malice. It is effective in tackling gossip, backbiting and spite
in a firm but creative way, and is perhaps best of all for creating a sparkling shield of protection.
Topaz
Topaz is the Sanskrit word for 'fire'. Topaz increases power as the Moon waxes, being at its
greatest potency at the time of the full moon. Perhaps because of this, topaz was said to be
proof against nightmares, night terrors and phantoms and malice of the night as well as violent
emotions. Water in which a topaz has been soaked is a cure for insomnia if drunk an hour before
bedtime. A natural energizer, golden topaz is especially good for alleviating work anxieties,
especially in the caring professions, and should be kept in the workplace.
Turquoise
Mined by the Egyptians in Sinai more than 6,000 years ago, turquoise and imitations of it have
been discovered in graves from around 4000 BC. It is the stone of horsemen, warning them of
danger, and will prevent horses from stumbling if placed in a saddle or on a bridle. So it is the
stone of all travelers, especially those who travel far by air or sea. In modern times, a small
turquoise can be attached to pets' collars and to the mirrors of birdcages to protect them.
It can also be plaited into horses' manes to prevent their being stolen or harmed, using the
following method. Soak the turquoise in sacred water for 24 hours, then charge it with power by
sprinkling salt on it and passing it through the smoke of a powerful incense such as cedar, then
through the flame of a pink candle and finally with the sacred water. Finally, bind the turquoise
with three hairs from the animal. Turquoise is a power stone and is good in global rituals, to
protect persecuted groups and for healing the sea and air. It is particularly effective in whale and
dolphin conservation work.
A Protective Crystal Ritual
This ritual is particularly effective for anyone feeling anxious about traveling or moving house.
You will need a map of the journey involved. You may like to work by candlelight, in which case
light a yellow candle for a journey of a short distance or duration and a blue one for major travel.
You can also adapt this ritual for a house move, burning a brown candle for a move to or within a
town or city and green for a rural or more isolated location.

49
• 	Spread five or six protective crystals across the map from your home to your destination.
• 	Prepare a circle of protective incense sticks or cones, such as copal, juniper or lemon
verbena, alternated with fern or frankincense incense for travel. Use holders or burners wide
enough to collect the ash. (Incense combines the qualities of the Earth in its substance and
of the Sky when lit and so is a very balanced form of magic, combining the Sky Father and
Earth Mother, animus and anima energies, or yang and yin in the Oriental tradition.)
• 	As you light the incense, say: Far or near, guard my home, guide me safe o'er hill and foam,
In darkest night, though apart, my home I carry in my heart.
• 	While the incense is burning, make positive plans for your journey and focus on the most
pleasurable aspects.
• 	When the incense is burned through, collect any ash and sprinkle a little over the crystals you
placed over your home and destination.
• 	Wash the crystals in sacred water or any source of running water and allow them to dry
naturally.
• 	Take your home crystal on the journey with you and give the destination crystal to a loved
one. If you live alone, bury it in a plant pot near the door to await your homecoming.
• 	For a house move, bury the 'new home' crystal near the front door of your present property to
create a happy atmosphere for the new owners or tenants. Bury the 'old home' crystal in the
ground near your new front door when you move, to transfer positive energies with you and
make the new home instantly yours.
Amulets
Very potent protection can be provided by amulets. These are charms that have been marked
with a symbol to indicate the power they contain. This could be a protective god or goddess, or a
sign of the zodiac or a planet that you feel has the power you need. Alternatively, you might
simply write the name of the person to be protected and surround it with a circle to keep out ill-
wishing. You can make an amulet in any shape you wish, out of candle-wax or clay, or you could
use wooden discs, cut from an old broom handle. The symbols may be engraved, using a sharp
knife, or painted on. You can add decorations if you wish. Amulets may be carried in your
pocket, or you could drill a hole and thread a ribbon through an amulet and hang it around your
neck. They may also be placed in a house to offer protection against danger and illness.
Protective crystals also make good amulets and empowered herbs of protection. Traditionally,
the week before the midsummer solstice is the time for making protective amulets, so that they
can be passed through flame or held up to the Sun on the solstice day at noon.
Salt
Salt has always been central to religious and magical practices because it is an absolutely pure
substance. It is powerful for psychic protection but also in money-making and in healing rituals.
Centuries ago, it was regarded as precious because it was the main preservative of food through
the long winter months for early settlers around the globe. In formal magick, it represents the
element of Earth. In modern protective and banishing rituals, a salt circle is created to keep out
harm. Many of us still adhere to the old practice of throwing a pinch of spilt salt over our left
shoulder, 'into the eyes of the Devil'. Salt was also added in the making of Holy Water to ward off
evil and increase physical strength as well as powers of fertility. Salt is still added to water in
casting a triple circle in more formal magick. On a less formal level, small quantities of salt can

50
be empowered and used for all kinds of domestic protection. To empower salt, pass a clear
quartz or crystal pendulum over it deosil, chanting the purpose, for example, 'Salt, salt, protect
me from all danger'. Keep them separate from other condiments in a watertight container and
then you can build in the specific need, perhaps protection for a traveler, purification of a house
or comfort for a child unhappy at school. Twists of salt in silver foil hidden in the corners of a
room at home or work can offer protection, as can salt in a drawstring bag carried while traveling
to guard against illness, accident or harm. You can also scatter a circle of salt around a
schoolbag, travel bag or briefcase, around your desk or on the threshold, to create a protective
shield. You can charge pepper in the same way to make a salt and pepper floor wash for floors
(this is an old Afro-Caribbean tradition). As you scrub or sprinkle, create the empowerment
charm, for example 'Salt of Earth, pepper of Fire, guard my home and cleanse away all harm'.
Pepper also works wonders for keeping away the office vamp or Adonis and if you think your
partner is at risk from temptation, add the empowered condiment to a salad and they will absorb
the protection.
A Protective Ritual With Empowered Salt
• 	Place the salt in a small ceramic dish on your altar and light a pure beeswax candle at the
four main compass points around the edges of the altar. Beeswax has a long tradition in
magick: it was sacred to the Mother Goddess and later the Virgin Mary. Demeter, goddess of
the grain, was called Queen Bee and Aphrodite's symbol at her hive-shaped shrine in Eryx
was a gold honeycomb. Her high priestess was always called Melissa, Latin for bee.
• 	Beginning at the North of your circle, light your elemental candles. At each quarter of the
circle say: Demeter, Aphrodite, Melissa, pure mother bee, charge with thy light this salt, to
enfold my home (workplace/journey) with thy golden mantle of protection.
You may wish to leave out the goddess names or substitute a Mother Goddess or religious icon
of your own. Perhaps surprisingly, many witches do ask the blessings of Mother Mary and I
believe that if you work in love, then you should use your own focus. If you prefer, just say:
Benign light, charge with honeyed fragrance this salt, to enfold -[insert the name of the person to
be protected].
• 	Next enclose your dish of salt in a square of small protective crystals such as jade or tiger's
eye and one or two amber if you have any in your collection. (Rose quartz or glass nuggets
in smoky brown and yellow make good substitutes.) Begin in the North and make sure the
crystals are touching. The square is a sacred geometric form symbolizing time and space
and so is good for all protective rituals. The square should be just inside the candles. Some
practitioners create a symbolic square by placing just two crystals in the center of where
each side would be, and you can do this if you prefer. As you create the square, say: Safe
within, nought to enter, nought to harm, nought within but this benign light of love. Thus do I
build, thus enclose - [insert the name or place to be protected] in light and protection.
• 	Now create a circle of golden petals, pollen, leaves or pot pourri. The circle should almost
touch the candles, so that they can stand sentinel round it, and should enclose the square or
crystals and the salt. The circle represents the spirit and so encloses the space and time
square. As you scatter the petals or pollen, say: Circle of gold, shield from malice, danger
and stranger, enter the salt and empower this sphere with a shield of gold.

51
• 	Leave the candles to burn down, making sure they are in broad-based holders so wax does
not fall on the petals. If you are working with other people or wish to have a more active
ritual, place the dish of salt in the centre resting on the altar or on a rock. Set tall candles in
floor holders a short distance away and make an invisible square with frankincense or
sandalwood incense by walking round the square and then scattering your golden petal, herb
or pollen circle. If you cannot obtain beeswax candles, use plain white candles and place a
tiny dish of honey to the right of the salt. Since the honey will also be empowered, you can
absorb the protective magick by using it in a drink or sandwich.
• 	When the candles have burned down completely, clear away the crystals and wash them
under running water.
Water
Because water is vital for life, it has become associated with rebirth and healing through the
washing away of sins and disease, and so with protection from ills of all kinds. Water for rituals
must first be consecrated. You can use either pure spring water or tap water left for 24 hours in a
crystal or clear glass container. Cover the water with mesh in the waxing or full moon and then
leave out of doors to absorb the light of the Moon and the Sun for a full 24 hours. The full moon
rises around sunset, so you can follow the old Celtic day. Even if you cannot see the light
because of cloud, the energies are still potent. In formal magick, consecrated water is placed in
the West in a special bowl. In the home, it is good to keep a supply of sacred water ready for use
at all times: purify objects and areas by sprinkling it, add it to your bath, drink it, put it in your
pets' bowl and use it to water your plants. One way of unobtrusively absorbing the protection of
sacred water is to keep some in a mineral water bottle so you can dab it on your wrists and
temples at times of stress or take a drink if you feel worried or under threat from a person who
exudes hostility. Add a little to the cup when making tea or coffee for an adversary. You are not
giving away your power but, by the Threefold Law, creating harmony in the source of the trouble.
Sacred water can also be poured on earth that has become barren or spoiled and into polluted
seas and rivers.
A Ritual For Consecrating Water
If you are carrying out a special healing or protective ritual, you might wish to use this slightly
more complex method of creating sacred water. It is possible to buy or obtain water from holy
wells, usually in return for a donation towards the upkeep of the well, and some commercially
bottled spring water comes from sacred wells. For example, the healing water from Prime's Well,
in the Malvern Hills, where the hero in Langland's poem The Vision of Piers the Plowman
received his vision, is now piped and bottled as Malvern Spring Water, without which Queen
Elizabeth II will not travel. Use the following ritual to consecrate your bottled water, or, if you are
in a hurry for your rituals, pass a pendulum nine times widdershins over it to remove any
influences added in the bottling and nine times deosil to energize it. (A pendulum is made by
hanging a crystal, or a piece of wood or metal on a chain and can be used to transmit answers
to questions by its movements. Crystal pendulums are also used to catch the light of the Sun or
Moon, thus adding the energies of these light forces.) Use a crystal or clear glass jug or
decanter, if possible, in which to keep your water. The kind used for wine, with a stopper or lid, is
best.

52
• 	Wash a clear, round crystal quartz (a stone used in many cultures to energize and purify
water) under running water to remove any impurities introduced by the modern world. Place it
in the bottom of your jug or decanter.
• 	Pour mineral water, from a sacred source if possible, into the jug. Some practitioners,
following the ancient Celtic tradition, use water that has been boiled with nine quartz crystals
added.
• 	Leave this water out of doors in a circle of white flowers or blossoms for 24 hours, where it
will absorb the complete light cycle. If the Moon is not visible, because of clouds, burn a
white candle or nightlight behind it.
• 	Pass a twig from one of the protective trees, such as rowan, ash, palm, thorn or olive, over it
nine times widdershins to remove any lingering negativity.
• 	Finally, pass the twig over it nine times deosil to empower it, saying: Water of the goddess,
flowing from the Earth, filled with lingering moonbeams, healing bring to birth. Water filled
with sunlight, crystal light empower, floral life force entering, blessings on us shower.
Keep your sacred water on a special shelf in a cupboard and when it is almost empty pour what
is left into a pond or lake and wash out the jug or decanter under running water.
Revitalizing Rainwater For Use In Rituals
Before the days of acid rain, practitioners of magick would use rainwater collected in a container
before it touched the ground as sacred water. Nowadays, you may find it necessary to revitalize
the rainwater you use with a few drops of flower essence. There are many brands available:
Agrimony’s from Dr Bach's Flower Essences; Goatbeard from the Pacific Flower Essence
Remedies; Coconut Palm from the African and Amazonian Essences; Alaskan soap berry; Diva
Fig Tree or Morning Glory; and Find horn rowan, all of which seem to work as purifiers for me.
Flower and tree essences are created from the living energies of the plant and this spirit water is
especially good for protective baths.
A Protective Water Ritual
This ritual is particularly effective for removing the effects of spite or unfair criticism or a
destructive encounter that has shaken your confidence. It is based on an old custom whereby a
rag was dipped into a holy well and the water rubbed on the body part that was causing pain.
The rag was then left on a tree overhanging the well to dry and take with it the illness or pain,
after which the rag was left to decay, so ensuring a permanent or long-term cure. These wells,
called cloth or 'cloutie' wells in the north of England, are still a focus for protection and healing in
many parts of the world, surrounded by ribbons and flowers. You will need a large crystal or
glass bowl for this ritual. Such bowls, frequently used in magick, are often obtainable cheaply
from car boot or garage sales.
• 	Pour sacred water into the crystal bowl so that it is about half-full.
• 	Pass over the bowl three times deosil a silver colored knife, or a traditional tool related to Air,
saying: One, twice, three times, by this blade of Air, by the mighty winds and the boundless
sky, thrice thus do I charge this water with power and protection against all who would do or
wish me harm.
• 	Dip a small piece of white cotton or flannel into your sacred water, saying: Wash away the
sorrow, wash away the pain, Father Sky and Sister Water, let but peace remain.

53
• 	Tie the cloth to a healing tree, such as ash, birch, aspen or willow (failing this, any tree or
large plant in your garden or home will do) and leave the cloth to dry naturally. As you tie it,
say: As the sacred water returns to the sky to fall as life-enhancing rain, so may my- [name
your
unhappiness] be dispersed and transformed into joy and reconciliation. Place a coin in a special
pot every time you use your sacred water, so that when it is full you can buy a present for
someone you love, a person who is lonely or ill or to give to a favorite charity.
Healing Magick
Herbs have been used for healing since time immemorial in cultures all over the world. In herbal
medicine, the herbs whose properties alleviate a particular illness or state of mind are taken
internally or applied to the physical body externally. However, in healing magick, light and
healing energies are transmitted through color, crystals, herbs, oils and incenses and used as a
focus for transferring healing energies to trigger the body and mind's own immune system,
through visualization and telepathic waves. In this way, healing magick is akin to spiritual
healing. By directing the natural restorative energies of the Earth, nature and the cosmos
towards a sick or stressed person, animal or place through mind or soul flow, we can stimulate
and amplify their self healing powers. A number of witches are formally trained in the healing
arts, using both conventional methods, such as surgery, and alternative therapies, such as
chiropractic, aromatherapy and Reiki. Witches may also be members of healing associations,
and conventional medicine is increasingly recognizing the value of alternative and much older
methods. But many witches without any formal training in either conventional medical treatment
or spiritual healing follow the tradition of the wise men and women, the Wicca. These
practitioners passed their craft down over centuries, from one generation to the next, but we also
all have an innate ability to heal, which tells us how to soothe a loved one's headache or a
child's distress.
Unlike some modern physicians or surgeons, who sometimes regard the prolonging of life as the
major purpose of their work, regardless of the quality of that life, many witch healers, like other
spiritual healers, accept that sometimes decline and death are inevitable. So they work to ease
the parting and the passing over, knowing that this life is not the end. Magical healing has a very
gentle tradition. You can carry out healing with the sick person present, by directing the light and
energies towards them. This can be done, for example, through a candle flame set between you.
Alternatively, you can circle a pendulum over their head, widdershins to remove pain for whole-
body healing or to ease a painful place, and deosil to restore energies. If the subject is absent,
you can visualize them and send healing light across the cosmos. Healing magick can also be
used with your pets, and for more general purposes, such as healing a particular place or the
planet. Do note that I am not claiming that the methods of magick healing given in this chapter
will always effect a complete cure; if you suffer from a chronic or acute condition that does not
quickly improve, you should consult your conventional doctor or registered alternative medical
practitioner. However, magick has successfully been used in speeding healing, partly, it would
seem, by stimulating the body's own self-healing system, operating through the close connection
between mind, body and spirit in a way that the medical profession is only now beginning to
understand.

54
Creating A Healing Sanctuary
Many practitioners use their magical altar for healing work and because each piece of work is
related, this adds to the positive energies already concentrated there. However, if you have
room, you might like to set aside a corner specifically for healing.
You can use a table or any flat surface for your altar. On it, you should keep a single, pure
beeswax or white candle; this is a symbol of the unity of all life and the one divine source that
flows through every natural being, whether it is male or female, god or goddess, animal, bird,
fish, tree, plant or stone. You will also need your special healing crystals, perhaps arranged in a
circle around the candle and a clear crystal sphere or crystal pendulum for directing sunlight and
moonlight. The crystals could include gentle rose quartz and amethyst for healing all ills and
bringing harmony, moonstone for female and hormonal disorders and for fertility, citrine for
energy and lifting depression, and agates for balancing energies. Later in this section I have
listed some healing crystals I use under their different colors, as these are related to healing
properties.
You can also keep here pots of healing herbs, seasonal fruit, flowers, nuts and seeds that will be
empowered by the healing energies. These can regularly be given to anyone feeling tired or
anxious - not forgetting yourself. A covered jar of empowered salt and a bottle of sacred water
are also important. However, you might like to bless them before use, in the name of the
Goddess, a healing deity or simply the powers of goodness and light, by passing them three
times over the healing candle flame. You will also need somewhere to keep all you need for your
healing work that you can also use in more general magical work with a healing focus. You
might have a box at the side of the altar, or, if you adapt a cupboard for your altar, you could use
the space inside it. In this place you would have your dried herbs, healing oils and incenses,
favorite flower essences, colored bottles containing empowered water and small crystals or
glass nuggets. You could also collect twigs or small carved artifacts from healing trees, such as
ash, olive, rowan, palm and aspen.
On the table in front of the candle you could keep a special healing book in which you could
write the names of people or places you know who need healing. These could include pets, a
hospital or hospice with which you have connections, sanctuaries for injured creatures,
threatened species and places. You might also like to keep a special 'Loving Connections'
section for the names of friends or family members who are away from home and may be feeling
lonely, and also anyone from whom you are estranged. A bound journal with blank pages is
good for this kind of work or you could buy a leather loose-leaf binder and insert blank pages
with dates. If you work in a group, one member can be responsible for regularly updating the
book.
A Ritual For Creating Healing Magick
Each evening or morning - or whenever you have time - light your healing candle and hold one
of your special crystals and your crystal sphere or pendulum and focus on of the names in your
book, sending the candlelight reflected though the crystal to wherever it is needed. The
traditional healing hour is ten o' clock at night, but what is more important is that the time is one
where you can be quiet and are not pressurized by other demands. Begin by holding a healing
crystal and focusing the energies through the candle flame; you can then extend this ritual for
specific healing purposes. You will need a photograph, newspaper cutting or symbol of the
person, animal or place to which you are sending healing energies.

55
• 	Take a dish of sacred water and place it near the candle.
• 	Hold the symbol of the person to be healed between your hands and speak a few words of
love and reassurance as though they were with you. If you have already created for the sick
person a herb poppet or sachet, hold that between your hands and repeat the original herb
empowerment or sit in silence recreating the ritual in your mind. You can add words of
healing as above. If the object of the healing is a place, such as a lake or woodland under
threat, imagine that you are in that place.
• 	Circle your crystal pendulum or a pointed healing crystal over the symbol (or sachet or
poppet) nine times widdershins, saying as a mantra: Go, pain and sorrow, change to star or
sunbeam, transformed in joy and in tranquility.
• 	Plunge the pendulum into the water and hold it to the light so the drops of water fall off and
scatter as rainbow light beams all around the symbol. You can also create the light beams by
angling your candle or hanging rainbow crystals in your window. It is not cheating, but
directing natural forces for a purpose and infusing physical light beams with spiritual
energies. Mirrors are another good way of reflecting light beams.
• 	Now circle the pendulum nine times deosil over the symbol, saying: Sunbeam, star beam,
rays of light, replace, restore, renew, rejoice.
• 	Blow out the candle, sending the light to the sick or sorrowing person, saying: Go, light of
healing, radiance of love and friendship, to where you are needed most this night, with -
[name the person, animal or location]. May blessings fall, darkness and doubts recede into
nothingness. So may it be in the name of all that is good and loving and pure [or 'in the name
of the Goddess', if you prefer]. If you are feeling ill, worried or afraid you can go to your
healing place and light the candle, holding your favorite crystal and expressing softly your
needs and fears. However, the more healing you carry out for others, the more harmony will
fall on you under the Threefold Law. If you are working with friends or in a group, after
showering it with light beams, pass the symbol round to each person, adding individual
blessings. Give each person a small, white candle to set before them so that they can
personally send light and blessings. The words can be spoken as a joint mantra or chant.
A Short Ritual For Absent Healing
This can be carried out once a month for those who regularly need your help and support. Use
natural candles such as beeswax rather than paraffin-based for this ritual if possible.
• 	Light your healing candle and burn rose or lavender incense or a healing oil, such as
Chamomile or rosewood.
• 	Read through all the names in your healing book, adding any new ones to the list and giving
thanks for any who have recovered.
• 	Speak your own prayer or mantra to your god, the Goddess, or any healing deities who seem
appropriate. You may call upon an Archangel or the benign powers of Light and Love, if this
seems more meaningful. Each person present can again add blessings.
• 	Leave the candle and incense to burn away and bury any ash or wax afterwards in the earth
beneath a tree.
A Healing Ritual With Sunlight And Moonlight

56
This is a very magical form of healing and can be carried out either alone or as a group activity.
Quartz crystal balls were traditionally used medicinally to concentrate the rays of sunlight upon a
diseased or painful area of the body or in the direction of some internal organ.
This clear crystal stone has always been associated with energizing powers and with healing. In
its spherical form of completeness, it is perhaps the ultimate healing and magical stone. You can
buy tiny spheres quite cheaply and these work just as well as a large crystal ball.
Sunlight is good for energizing and improving physical health and vitality, encouraging re-growth
and regeneration, and for matters of the mind where clarity and optimism are needed.
Moonlight is potent for removing illness or pain and for all problems concerning emotions,
hormones or fertility and is especially effective in healing women, children and pets.
• 	Direct the sunlight or the light of the full moon into your crystal sphere, so that it shines on the
person you are healing, or their photograph or other symbol. If you are using sunlight, be
careful that the crystal does not become too hot and of course do not look directly at the
image of the Sun.
• 	Stand in a circle in the open air and in the center, place a dish of pure spring water. Use a
golden colored bowl for sunlight, and a silver bowl for moonlight.
• 	Into the water, drop tiny clear quartz crystals (if you are working in a group, each person
adds one crystal). As you cast the crystals, make a wish for healing the sick or distressed
person.
• 	Hold a crystal pendulum and swirl it on its chain to catch within it either rainbows or
sunbeams, or the silver light of the Moon.
• 	Cast the beams into the water, calling: Go forth with love and healing. You can, if you prefer,
create your own words.
• 	Pour the water into a clear glass bottle with a stopper and send or give it to the sick person.
They may drink it or use it in a bath.
• 	Return the energies to the cosmos by placing yellow flowers or seeds in a pot for the golden
energies if you used sunlight, and white flowers for the Moon.
Color Healing
Color has long been believed to have the power to influence not only our moods, but our
physical well-being. The Babylonians called the healing power of light 'the medicine of the gods'.
Healing colors have been used for thousands of years in Chinese treatments and in Ayurveda,
an ancient Indian medicine. The Ancient Egyptians wore amulets of colored stones: red to treat
disease, yellow for happiness and prosperity, and green for fertility. Color healing is not just a
fancy: we know for a fact that each beam of colored light has its own wavelength and is
absorbed by the body through the skin and the optic nerves. This triggers complex
biochemical changes. Each of the seven primary wavelengths or vibrations of light visible to the
human eye focuses on different parts of the body, evoking in them both a physiological and
psychological response. Red has the longest wavelength of visible color and violet the shortest.
The colors that we can see make up only a very small segment of the electromagnetic spectrum
and lie between the infra red and ultra violet rays.
A Color Healing Ritual With Candles
Candles of specific colors can help in the healing process. If you are not certain of the root of a
problem, you can use a white or pure beeswax candle, plus, if you wish, one for the perceived

57
area of pain. For your monthly major healing sessions, this ritual can be used after the names
have been read, working with pink or white candles to include everyone in the book who is sick
or sad. It is especially good for chronic conditions or when healing may take some time. This is a
gentler method than creating a cone of color. Early evening just after dusk is a good time to
work.
• 	Choose a candle of the appropriate color. Extinguish all other lights.
• 	If the person to be healed is present, they can work with you in building up the energies. Sit
on cushions on either side of the candle, allowing room for movement.
• 	Place a dish of small dish of dried rosemary or lavender for general healing next to the
candle. If the healing is for yourself or for someone who is absent, light the candle. If you are
working as a group, sit in a circle, each person holding their own colored candle (you can
make rainbow with different colors round the circle if you wish), with a large white candle in
the center. Each person will also need a small dish of herbs.
• 	Gaze into the flame and if there are others present, ask them to do the same, gently drawing
in the colored light and exhaling darkness or pain.
• 	Breathe in and take in the light, as you do so saying in your mind: Welcome, light.
• 	Hold the breath while you mentally count 'One and two and three', then send out the healing
energies, saying silently: Farewell, pain [or sorrow, darkness, etc.].
• 	Continue to breathe and visualize the color entering and radiating and the darkness or pain
fading away. If you are working in a group, one person can sit near the central candle and
speak the words or drum the rhythm of the breathing. You may hear clairaudient (in your
mind) the collective voices rising and falling. After a time, you will see with your mind's eye
that the same color breath is being inhaled and exhaled by each person, and at this stage the
healing energies are balanced.
• 	Gently circle your arms over your head and sway from side to side, either sitting, kneeling or
standing, while scattering gently your healing herbs like a gentle shower of rain (your hair will
shine wonderfully when you next wash it). At the same time, chant softly:
Go forth, increase and multiply, cosmic light intensify, healing Earth and Sea and Sky.
• 	When the energies feel right, add to the last chant a final long melodious 'Heal!' and
extinguish the candle(s), letting the light and sound fade into the silence.
• 	Press your hands and feet gently to the ground and let the energies flow back into the Earth,
saying softly:
We thank you, Mother Earth, for healing blessings soon to be received.
Healing With Water And Colored Glass
Spring water placed in glass bottles of the appropriate color will absorb the color energies and
can be used in rituals of all kinds, magical as well as healing. They can be further empowered by
adding crystals of the same color as the bottle to the water. If possible, work out of doors.
You can use this method for endowing living energies into any symbol of healing, such as an
amulet, popper, sachet or even a photograph of the person to be healed. Use bottles with
stoppers or corks (these can be obtained from most household shops or from antique stalls).
Build up your collection so that you have a bottle of the correct color for every need. Although
the water retains its clear color, some people are able to detect a faint glow of the color.

58
As before, the water can be drunk or added to a bath, in order to benefit from the energies. You
can also add water to an animal bowl or a place in which wild birds come to drink, use it for
plants that are failing to thrive or pour some in a polluted water source or on barren land.
You will remember, for example, that water from a pink or indigo bottle will bring harmony and
gentle healing calm. But more specifically, a drink in a teenager's lunch box made with pink
water will heal any hurts and fears a sensitive youngster experiences in the outside world. Clear
water to which a quartz crystal has been added is an instant energizer, transmitting the life force
in concentrated form.
You can use the color-infused water in rituals to send healing to a species, people or place far
away by sprinkling a circle of water around a picture or symbol. You can empower a larger
quantity than you immediately need, and pour it into small bottles of different colors, preserved in
your fridge for future healing work when they are needed. By combining the magical and healing
color associations of the different colors, you can adapt your
empowered waters for almost any need. Water made in a soft blue bottle empowered with a blue
lace agate softens harsh words: use it for making coffee if difficult relatives come to call. A
darker blue, perhaps empowered in a deep blue bottle with a sodality crystal, is calming and so
the infused color would help to alleviate panic experienced when flying. Just moisten a small
cloth with it, take the cloth on to the aircraft and dab it on your temples and pulse points on take-
off and landing or at other times when you feel panic rising. Healing the body is only one small
part of health and so you should experiment and note any uses you find for your infused waters.
Take some color-charged water to work or to a difficult social event in a mineral water bottle. In
my on-going struggle with my weight, I have found that orange water in which a carnelian has
been soaked is wonderful for restoring balance and self-esteem and so preventing food binges.
A Healing Ritual With Colored Glass
Folk magick was originally based on substances that have comprised the diet of ordinary people
for thousands of years. They are all infused symbolically as well as actually with the life force.
• 	Empower your water, if you wish, and pour it into the chosen colored bottle. Close your bottle
and surround it with a circle of fruits, unprocessed food, flowers or crystals of the color to be
used. Leave space between the bottle and the edge of the circle.
• 	Inside the circle, to the North of the bottle, place a large golden, white or orange vegetable,
preferably grown under or close to the ground. This represents the fruits of the Earth, born of
the Earth Mother.
• 	In the East of the circle, place some seeds or nuts that represent the source of new life and
potential.
• 	In the South, set a small dish of honey, which is considered as sacred as salt in many
traditions and is especially associated with healing.
• 	Finally, in the West, place a seed roll or bread, representing the cutting down of the corn, so
completing the cycle.
• 	Take a twig or a wand from a healing tree, such as ash, or a long frond of greenery and walk
round the circle deosil. Infuse each of the magical foods in turn with circles of the wand
deosil, saying:
Fruits of the Earth, born from the womb of the land, give life and healing, health and joy from
your ever-replenishing store.

59
• 	Touch the vegetable with the wand and then lift the wand in a high arc before lowering it to
touch the bottle of water in the center.
• 	Now move to the East and circle the wand deosil over the seeds, saying:
Seeds of potential, from the loins of the Father, give growth and power, possibility and
regeneration from your limitless treasury.
• 	Touch the seeds with the wand and raising it in a high arc as before, project the energy into
the bottle.
• 	Go now to the South and circle the wand deosil over the honey, saying:
Melissa, Mother Bee, bring abundance, warmth, sweetness and nourishment from your ever
replenishing hives.
Touch the dish and transfer the energies as before to the water.
• 	Finally, go to the West and circle the wand over the bread, saying:
Corn Father, willing offering of the life-sustaining bread, bring an ease to sorrow and suffering
and the peace and fulfillment of healing harvest home.
• 	Touch the bread with the wand and transfer the energies as before to the water.
• 	Finally, pass the bottle of water over the vegetable, seeds, honey and bread, saying:
Fruit and seed, nectar and corn, enrich, empower and endow this water with your healing
powers and the life force that flows though our lives and through all creation.
Eat the empowered food to boost your own energies and to spread calm or healing.
Ritual Magick
Ritual magick is no different from any other activity that you may carry out in a systematic way.
Yes, it is true, it is more formal than folk magick: you are using special tools and following a
series of preordained steps based on traditional practice. But this does not mean that it has to be
so complicated as to be beyond the capabilities of any normal person. You do not need special
powers; and the preparation is just the same as you would do if you were redecorating a room,
servicing your car or preparing your annual accounts. When you decide to do any of these tasks,
you set out the necessary equipment in advance, so you are not constantly dashing off to find
what you need. You check that it is all in working order and you probably consult a reliable
reference book, computer software or calculator to clarify the necessary stages and finer points
of the method. And that is exactly what preparing for ritual magick is like. First, you need to
collect any relevant information; for example, you must find out which tools, herbs, candle colors,
etc. you may require. Then you must check that your magical tools are charged with power. You
must check whether the hour and the day are well chosen to benefit from the energies and are
most aligned to the focus. If you are working with a group, you must decide in advance who is to
carry the salt and other elemental substances round the circle, who will perform particular parts
of the ritual, such as welcoming the Spirit Guardians.

60
This preparation is important, although, as I have previously said, many of the words and actions
in the best rituals remain spontaneous within the basic framework. You do not even need to
belong to a coven to create beautiful rituals. Indeed, practicing alone, you will find that as you
increase in confidence, the natural rhythm of the ritual cycle will amplify your own innate powers
and you will feel angelic or devic forces joining with you as you walk around the circle and hear
their voices mingling with your chants.
You should not allow yourself to be overawed, as I have been in the past and still occasionally
am, by books and practitioners who vaunt their knowledge of obscure magical phrases, measure
their circles down to the last millimeter and insist that only their form of working is authentic.
What matters is the actual connection you make in your ritual with the storehouse of natural and
higher energies - and that can be done with a kitchen candle if the need is great and the
intention pure. Ultimately, the power is within you, and as you become skilled with magick, you
may find that the external form becomes less important. However, formal magick does have its
place, for a special need or for raising spiritual awareness, or for focusing magical energies
through the accumulated power of tools charged and regularly used for positive purpose. Some
people believe also that in ritual you tap into the energies of all those before you who have
created circles of power and protection, and within them have raised and called upon the
elemental qualities to bring desires and needs from the thought to the material plane.
The Aims Of Formal Rituals
Rituals and spells at all levels cause a positive change or effect, whether for oneself, a loved one
or the whole ecosystem, as they bring healing, peace, reconciliation or whatever is needed in
the spell-caster's life. But over and above all these is the purpose of raising one's own levels of
awareness so that perhaps for a few moments you feel connected to a higher power, perhaps
even the source of divinity, and this is best expressed though the more ceremonial forms of
work. The awareness you attain may be experienced as a sense of deep peace, of being filled
with golden light, of floating through clouds or a certainty of being loved and protected, perhaps
even as a glimpse of a Divinity. Formal rituals do not have to be focused on a particular aim,
however. Sometimes, you may wish to carry out a ritual without having any specific purpose in
mind. In this case, you can simply cast a circle and raise the energies gently through a natural
focus of herbs, flowers or fruit, allowing wisdom to be channeled through you and then giving
thanks for blessings received as you close the circle.
The Four Quarters Of The Circle
Every magical circle is divided into four quarters that are in ceremonial magick called the
Watchtowers. The higher essences who protect the quarters are invoked as the Guardians, who
control and direct the elemental powers. Sometimes they are called Kings, sometimes Devas, or
they may be pictured as the four main archangels, Michael, Gabriel, Raphael and Uriel. How you
perceive your guardians in the ritual circle is up to you. As with all magick, there are
disagreements about which archangel represents each element. This is because angels are
found in a number of different traditions and religions and so may serve different functions under
similar names. Previously, I have associated Raphael with the North and Uriel with the East,
seeing Raphael in his aspect as a healer and protector, and Uriel as the fiery dawn in the East.
However, recently I have started to use a more traditional association of Raphael as the
messenger in the East and Uriel as sentinel of the North and I have found that this works better.
Do read about angels and experiment to see what suits you. Use the elemental candle color to
represent the angel you want. You can also use angels in the four quarters to invoke protection
in less formal magick by lighting candles in the four quarters when you feel afraid or alone. I

61
have also seen Michael listed as archangel of the dawn and East, but I think he is better placed
as archangel of the Sun in the South. If you feel uncertain, simply refer to each guardian as
Archangel of the North', etc., then the celestial being can reveal itself in the form that is right for
you. The angelic colors I have given vary slightly from the elemental ones and if you are carrying
out a personal angelic ritual of protection or meditating on the archangels, you can use the
archangel colors for your candles. Some practitioners do not greet the Guardians of the
Watchtowers at all, but instead light each elemental candle in turn, visualizing golden energies
pouring from each direction into the circle.
Drawing A Pentagram
Pentagrams are remarkably easy to draw. They are created in one continuous line, moving from
point to point, and ending where you began. In ritual magick, pentagrams are drawn in the air at
each of the four compass directions of the circle, either with an athame, a wand or the index
finger of your power hand. It is best to draw really big, strong pentagrams. Pentagrams can be
drawn either to attract the elemental guardians (invoking, or attracting pentagrams) or to close
their energies (banishing pentagrams). There are various rather complicated ways of drawing
pentagrams, but I suggest you use the basic methods given on the previous page for attracting
when opening your four quarters and banishing when closing. If you wish to find out more, I
recommend you read Dion Fortune's Applied Magick. If you do not wish to draw pentagrams at
all in your circle work, you can instead call the Guardians in the candle flame.
A Formal Ritual To Restore Prosperity
Such a ritual could be used, for example, to boost employment in a town that has become an
urban wasteland.
• 	Set four floor candles in the elemental colors in the four main compass points of what will be
the circle. The altar is in the center.
• 	Place a single large beeswax candle in the center of the altar. Arrange your tools and the
four elemental substances, also on the altar, to form a square around the central candle: salt
in the North, frankincense, fern or cinnamon incense in the East, a gold candle in the South,
for abundance, and a jug of water and two small dishes in the West.
• 	Set the pentacle containing a honey cake in the North, and place the athame in the East, the
wand in the South and the chalice of juice or wine in the West.
• 	Place a ball of clay or dough within the elemental square, on a dish in front of the candle so
that light shines on it.
• 	Facing North, light the altar candle.
• 	Take the salt from the North and stir it deosil with your athame, saying: Power of new life,
power of healing, power of regeneration, enter this salt, I ask, mother and father of light and
love.
You can substitute the names of gods and goddesses associated with success, prosperity,
fertility and renewal into the ritual if you wish.
• 	Take next the water from the West and pour some into one of the dishes. Stir it deosil,
saying: Power of growth, power of fertility, power of prosperity, enter this water, I ask, mother
and father of abundance and increase.

62
• 	Now take the salt to the water and tip a little in it, stirring it once more with the athame,
saying: Dissolve and disperse, flow far and free to attract rebirth to -[name the town] and its
inhabitants.
• 	Now cast the circle around the elemental candles, with your wand, starting from the North in
a single unbroken movement, visualizing as you do a stream of light emanating from it that
encloses you above,
around and beneath. (If you are working with a group, they can stand or sit within a circle while
you cast around them. This is better than slowing the ceremony by having people entering the
circle separately after it is cast and then having to close the circle after each one.) Say: I cast
this circle of light, of power and of protection. May the circle that is cast always be unbroken.
Bless my workings this night [or day], O mother and father of rebirth and renewal, unified and yet
two, and all that is and has been and shall be, creative spirit of the universe, the cosmos and the
smallest blade of grass.
Pick up the bowl of salt water and sprinkle a second circle deosil around the perimeter of the
first, saying: Salt and water, enclose, bless and protect you who have sustained life from the
beginning and will so to the end.
If others are present, a second witch or the High Priest then sprinkles all present individually with
the water, saying 'Bless and protect'.
Light the incense in the East (or add to it if it was lit before the ritual).
• 	Create a third circle around the perimeter, saying: Breath of life, bring purity, clarity and
focus, force of life itself that flows alike within plant, tree, bird, animal, human and stone.
Bless and protect.
You are now going to light the elemental candles, and as you do so invoke the Guardians. Re-
light the taper from the central candle as necessary.
• 	Light a taper from the central candle and carry it to the North, saying: Lord [or Lady] of the
Northern Watchtower, I call upon your strength and persistence to restore the prosperity and
stability to this town where new industry and investment are so badly needed.
• 	Light the green candle of the North.
• 	Go to the East, saying: Lord [or Lady] of the Eastern Watchtower, I call upon your swiftness
and clarity of purpose, to bring technologies and opportunities into this town to attract new
kinds of work, perhaps from overseas.
• 	Light the yellow candle of the East.
• 	Go next to the South and say: Lord [or Lady] of the Southern Watchtower, I call upon your
cleansing fire and spirit of inspiration to purge what is redundant and corrupt and to bring
hope and energy to this town where decay and despair have taken root.
• 	Light the red candle of the South.

63
• 	Go finally to the West and say: Lord [or Lady] of the Western Watchtower, I call upon your
healing and restoration to heal bitterness and divisions between the people who have
experienced such hard times and whose town has become ravaged and neglected.
• 	Light the blue candle of the West. Now you are going to empower the clay. If working as a
group, once the clay has been empowered with the ritual substances, you could pass it round
for each person to fashion it and add their energies.
• 	Take the salt and sprinkle a few grains on the clay, saying:
Make new buildings rise, new industries grow, new houses and parkland, schools and health
centers be created, that this town may be a worthy home to those who work in it.
• 	Take the incense and circle the clay nine times, saying: Bring retraining, new investment,
government grants, new technology and new equipment so that the town may become a hive
of activity and generate ever more opportunities into the next century and beyond.
• 	Light the gold candle in the South (in this case it will be different from the candle of the
southern watchtower) and pass it over the clay so that single drop of gold wax falls on it,
saying: Bring gold of prosperity, gold of abundance, fire of inspiration and creativity so that
this town maybe rich in opportunity, in the arts and in culture, as well as in material wealth.
• 	Finally, sprinkle the clay with a single drop of water from the jug or a second dish, saying:
May the lifeblood of the town be restored and fertility course through the veins of the people
that their children and grandchildren may know happiness and lives unclouded by sorrow and
anxiety for their livelihood and their dwellings.
• 	Taking the clay between your hands, begin to mould it, using a marking tool if you wish, to
make a tool, such as a wheel, or a figure, a bridge, a loaf, a house or a flower, or any
abstract symbol that represents the rebirth of the town through its people. Endow it with your
wishes, visualizing the place growing and prospering, perhaps reciting: Go forth, increase
and multiply, or Rise again from the ashes, rise anew, rise glorious, rise, rise again. Chant
faster and faster until at last you toss the ball into the air and catch it, saying; Go far, go free,
bring life to thee. In a group, you could pass the endowed clay round a second time, tossing
it from person to person while chanting.
• 	Return the clay to the altar and take your honey cake on its dish.
• 	Hold it over the central candle, saying: Bring abundance to those who need it, enough for
their needs and a little more, joy and hope.
• 	Bite into the cake and scatter a few crumbs on the clay, instead of in a libation dish.
• 	Take the athame and plunge it into the chalice, saying: God to goddess, join thus thy power
and give power to thy people who are in need this hour.
• 	Drink from the chalice and instead of dropping some wine in the libation dish or on the
ground, let a drop fall on the clay, saying: Fruit of the vine, harvest gathered and
transformed, transform likewise what is barren to what is fruitful and living. If you are in a
group, you can pass the cakes and wine round and each person can contribute a positive
thought or perhaps voice any personal worries they may have about employment and ask for
blessing.
• 	Sit in the candlelight, seeing the new town rising from the old, and if you have any special
fear about your own job security or those of loved ones, let these too flow away as the
released energies multiply. Allow any excess energies to drain back into the Earth, by
pressing with your hands, feet and body.

64
• 	Beginning in the West, blow out the candle, saying: Lord [or Lady] of the Western
Watchtower, I thank you for your healing and your harmonizing light. Go now in peace.
• 	Move next to the South. Blow out this candle, saying: Lord [or Lady] of the Southern
Watchtower, I thank you for your inspiration and your cleansing light. Go now in peace.
• 	Move next to the East. Blow out this candle and say: Lord [or Lady] of the Eastern
Watchtower, I thank you for your clarity and your life-restoring light. Go now in peace.
• 	Move finally to the North. Blow out this candle and say: Lord [or Lady] of the Northern
Watchtower, I thank you for your grounding power and your protecting light. Go now in
peace.
• 	Take again your wand and, starting from the North and working widdershins, close the circle
just once, saying: May the circle be uncast but remain unbroken, may light and love and
healing still remain and fall on whoever needs their blessing.
• 	Leave the clay and allow the central and elemental Fire candle and the incense to burn
away. When they are burned through, clear them away and bury the clay beneath a living
tree or in a large plant of lavender or basil. There are many other things you can add to a
formal ritual, for example, ringing the bell or drawing pentagrams. In this ritual, you could also
have passed the elemental tools over the clay to give it additional power. Ceremonies are
really a glorious mix and match and this is just a sample of how you can combine the tools
and the forms to create the ceremony you want.
Moon Magick
Moon magick is one of the oldest forms of ritual, rooted from the earliest times in the
observations of humankind, of the changing phases of the Moon. These associations have
passed into modern magick and it is by reconnecting with the natural energies that we can use
the ebbs and flows of the lunar cycle, not only to amplify our own powers for magical purposes,
but also to harmonize with them, rather than fighting against our bodies and spirits in our
everyday lives. Rituals throughout the ages have tapped into the prevailing lunar energies that,
like the tides, are affected by the different cycles. In this way, magical intentions can be carried
on either the out flowing or inflowing psychic tide to give them the impetus to manifest
themselves in the physical world. To go against the Moon cycles in magick or in life is a bit like
swimming against the flow: quite possible with practice, but involving unnecessary effort.
A Banishing Ritual
The ebb tide is very good for carrying away what is no longer wanted, but if you do not live near
the sea, you can use any downward-flowing water, even a drain.
• 	Take either a dying flower or a long frond of seaweed to represent whatever it is you wish to
banish.
• 	Draw a square around it, in the sand or in the earth or using chalk on a paved area. Say:
These are the limits of your power, these are the limits of your sway, thus you lose your
thrall, away, now, away.
• 	Rub out the square, saying: See, even this your power is gone, leave my life, your day is
done.

65
• 	Cast the symbol on to the ebb tide. You may need to wade out to make sure it does not
come back to shore. Alternatively, cast it into flowing water with a final: Away, no more stay.
• 	Do something, however small, to make yourself happy for the rest of the day, so that it has
happy memories.
You may need to repeat the spell for a number of waning moons if the matter or person has a
strong hold. If the compulsion or person returns before the next waning moon, try this short
ritual.
• 	Run a bath and add a drop or two of eucalyptus or pine and lavender.
• 	On a tiny square bar of soap, write a symbol to represent the problem, draw a cross through
it and leave it to melt in the water while you enjoy your bath.
• 	Get out of the bath when you are refreshed and when the soap has completely melted, pull
out the plug, saying: Sorrow grievous, flow to sea, never more to trouble me.
• 	Do something positive while the soap is melting. If you do not have time for a bath, you can
melt your soap in a bowl or bucket and pour it down a drain.
Planets and Angels
Different days of the week and hours of the day and night are associated with specific energies
and each particular time is ruled by a planet and an archangel. Though these were primarily
center on ceremonial magick, they can also be used to give focus and potency to informal spells.
The planetary and angelic hours can also be applied to the everyday sphere, for example by
choosing the appropriate day and even hour for beginning a money-making scheme or a first
meeting with a potential business partner or lover. You can further amplify the salient qualities
and strengths of these times by using oils, incenses, colored candles and crystals linked with the
specific planets and angels.
We hope you really enjoyed our book. If you have any
comments please send them to Giancarlo or Bogdan at:
wizards@witchcraftexposed.com

66
Glossary
Akasha: The fifth and greatest element, formed by the combination of the ancient elements of
Earth, Air, Fire and Water that were considered in classical times and by alchemists to be the
components of all life and matter. Also sometimes called Spirit or Ether.
Akashic records: The collective memory bank on the spirit plane said to hold the experiences
of all people, past, present and future.
Alban Arthuran: The festival of the mid-winter solstice, named after King Arthur, the legendary
Sun King, which takes place on or about 21 December in the northern hemisphere.
Alpha waves: Brain waves, cultivated in psychic work, that are associated with a very relaxed
state of mind in which it is possible for intuitive faculties to find expression.
Amulet: A charm carried on a person or placed in a house to offer protection against danger
and illness. When charged with healing energies, it becomes a talisman and can attract health
and good fortune.
Anima: The term coined by Carl Gustav Jung to represent the female power within men as well
as women.
Animus: Jung's term for the male power within women and men. Ankh: An Egyptian symbol of
eternal life.
Archangels: Higher orders of angels, celestial beings featuring in the cosmologies of the three
major religions of the Western world, Christianity, Judaism, and Islam, as well as many other
world religions.
Athame: A double-edged knife used in formal ritual magick.
Auric field/aura: The personal energy field around all animate life, visible to clairvoyants.
Beltain: The Celtic festival of summer, beginning on 30 April and lasting for three days.
Bicarmel mind: A way of thinking that uses both hemispheres of the mind, the logical and the
intuitive, rather than the left (logical) hemisphere predominating as is normal in adults.
Caduceus: The staff of the classical messenger of the gods (Hermes to the Greeks and
Mercury to the Romans), shaped like two snakes, entwined in a double circle.
Cardinal: Principal, as in the four cardinal directions set round a circle - North, South, East, and
West. Also a term applied to the astrological signs of Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn,
because when the Sun moved into these signs it marked the start of a new season. Those born
under a cardinal sign manifest this quality as a desire to initiate and to take command of people
and situations.

67
Cauldron of Undry: A magical cauldron, one of the original four Celtic treasures, that could
provide an endless supply of nourishment and had great healing and restorative powers.
Believed by some scholars to be the inspiration for the Holy Grail.
Censer: A container for granular incense that is burned on charcoal. Also called a thurible.
Chalice: A cup or goblet made of glass, crystal, pottery or metal, traditionally silver, used in
ceremonies to represent the Water element and to hold wine, juice or water.
Charge: A declaration of the power and benevolence of the Goddess (or god) in Wicca, similar
to the Creed in other religions. It is spoken usually in the first person and is sometimes believed
to be the words of the Goddess channelled through the speaker.
Ch'i: The invisible life force, the flow of positive energy through everything, promoting growth,
health and vitality.
Clairaudience: A natural psychic ability to hear sounds beyond the range of the physical sounds
and the physical ear, sometimes from other dimensions. Mediums often communicate with
spirits by hearing their voices and so can convey messages to relatives or friends in whom the
ability is not so developed.
Coven: A meeting of any group, numbering from two to 13 practitioners, who meet together to
perform magick.
Deosil: Clockwise, or, literally 'in the direction of the Sun'. The direction used in creating a circle,
in all forms of attracting magic and for giving healing energies. See also Widdershins.
Devas: The angelic beings who watch and direct the natural world. In formal magick, one Deva
rules over each segment of a magical circle and one of the four elements of Fire, Water, Air and
Earth. Also known as the Devic Lords of the Watchtower.
Dhoop: An incense stick like a slender rope, from India.
The Divinity: Generic term for the ultimate source of goodness, light and creation.
Djinn: An invisible, shape shifting creature of fire and air, originating in the Middle East. In
Islamic tradition, djinns live in a parallel universe and so are invisible, created, it is said, before
mortals from smokeless fire.
Druids: Celtic high priests and wise men (and women) who preserved a common culture,
religion, history, laws, scholarship, healing, magic and science amongst the disparate Celtic
tribes. There is historical evidence of Druids in Ireland, England, Wales and Gaul and it would
seem that they also held sway in the Celtic settlements of Spain, Italy, Galatia and the Danube
valley, although under a different name.
Eightfold Wheel of the Year: An ancient magical and spiritual division of the year, formalised
by the Celts, though possibly dating back to the first agricultural societies.

68
Elementals: The forces or energies that in nature and magick give shape to living things and
bring thoughts and desires into actuality.
Equinox: The two times of the year when day and night are equal -namely, the spring equinox
around 21 March (21 September in the southern hemisphere) and the autumn equinox around
22 September (22 March in the southern hemisphere). In Celtic myth these were the times when
the twin gods of light and darkness fought each other for control.
Esbat: A monthly coven meeting traditionally held 13 times a year during each full moon.
Evil eye: A way of transmitting negativity to another person, not as a deliberate curse, but
through feelings of envy, jealousy or resentment.
Evocation: The summoning-up of angels (and sometimes demons) in order to bind them to
perform tasks.
Fixed: In astrology, a term applied to the signs of Leo, Taurus, Aquarius and Scorpio because
the Sun enters them in the middle of a season. Those born under these signs exhibit stability
and a tendency to continue in a predetermined path. See also Cardinal, Mutable.
The Goddess: The archetype or source energy of the feminine ultimate power or principle. All
the named goddesses are aspects of particular qualities of the Goddess in different cultures.
Grail: The chalice that Christ used at the Last Supper, in which His blood was collected after the
crucifixion.
Grail guardians: Nine maidens, sometimes associated with the guardians of sacred wells or
with the nine priestesses of the Isle of Avalon who included Morgan le Fay, Arthur's half-sister,
and Vivien, the Lady of the Lake in Arthurian tradition who accompanied Arthur on his funeral
barge. In some Grail legends, the Knights Templar were the traditional guardians of various holy
relics, including the Grail Cup, that were brought back from the Crusades.
Grail treasures: The main elemental ritual items in magick, associated with the treasures of the
Celts, and having parallels in Christianity.
Handfastings: A popular marriage rite among Wiccans, named after the focal point of the rite in
which a couple's right hands are loosely joined by a cord to symbol the uniting of the two people,
body, mind and soul.
Hedge witches: Lone witches; the name comes from the practice of village wise women
surrounding their homes with a hedge of hawthorn, a magical tree that afforded privacy from the
curious.
The Horned God: The male principle in Wicca, Lord of the Hunt, the Herds, Winter and the
Underworld. Known to the Celts as Cernunnos, the generic name for 'horned one'.
Imbolc: The Celtic festival of early spring. A Fire festival, Christianized as Candlemas on 1
February. Also known as Oimelc.

69
Immanent: Usually refers to a god or the Goddess; indicating that they are manifest within the
object of their creation, as the divine spark within people. See also Transcendent.
Inner-plane teaching: Contacting through meditation or rituals the cosmic memory bank or
Akashic records in order to tap into the great existing magical systems and wisdom without
external formal teaching.
Invocation: The process by which the wisdom and benign powers of the natural world and of
higher planes of consciousness, associated with the evolved self and divine power, are drawn
into oneself. Medieval magicians would invoke spirits to take over their bodies -dangerous and
mind-blowing.
Karma: The concept that the good and bad deeds and thoughts accumulated in an individual
lifetime may either progress us forwards to spiritual perfection or mean we need to learn lessons
in subsequent lives in order to right our mistakes.
Litha: The Celtic festival of light, held around the midsummer solstice on 21 June.
Lughnassadh: The Celtic festival of the first corn harvest, held from 31 July to 2 August in the
northern hemisphere. Christianized as Lammas ('loaf mass'), the day on which loaves of bread
were baked from the first grain harvest and placed on the altar to symbolize the first fruits.
Mabon: The second Celtic harvest festival of the autumn equinox, around 22 September.
Medicine Wheel: A concept central to all Native American magick. The wheels link the celestial,
human and natural cycles. Also known as the Circle of Power.
Morphic resonance: The spreading of goodwill and positivism, through magick and good
deeds, to increase the benign energies of the Earth and cosmos.
Mother Goddess: The giver of all life and fertility and mother of the animals, worshipped by
hunter-gatherer societies since Paleolithic times. In the shamanic religions in Siberia and
Lapland, the Mother of the Herds is still a central icon of power. During the Neolithic period, the
Mother Goddess was the bringer of fertility to the land as well as to animals and humans.
Gradually, she came to be seen as the wife of the great Sky Gods. She survives in the form of
Mary in the Christian religion.
Mutable: The mutable signs of the zodiac are Sagittarius, Gemini, Virgo and Pisces, as when
the Sun enters them the seasons are about to change. Those born under them are
correspondingly versatile and ready to compromise.
Oimelc: See Imbolc.
Ostara: The Celtic festival of the spring equinox.
Pentacle: A ritual item, symbol of the Earth, consisting of a flat, round disc, engraved with a
pentagram.

70
Pentagram: A five-pointed diagram, one of the most sacred geometric forms in magick. Each of
the five points represents one of the five elemental powers. The uppermost, single point is
symbolic of Spirit, or Akasha.
Poppet: A featureless doll made of cloth that is filled with herbs and used in healing or as a
talisman to attract love or fertility. It may also be made of clay and used as a focus for positive
magick to being health or happiness to the person represented by it.
Power hand: The hand you write with, used to transmit assertive and creative energies. See
also Receptive hand.
Quarters: The four segments of a magical circle. Each is associated with specific archangels,
colors, crystals, herbs, incenses, ritual tools, etc.
Receptive hand: The hand you do not write with. Used for receiving energies. See also Power
hand.
Rede: A rule or moral code. The Wiccan Rede states: An [If] it harm none, do what you will', and
so ensures all magick has a positive intent.
Sabbath: One of eight special days of the year on which Wiccan celebrations are held - the
solstices, the equinoxes and the Celtic Fire festivals.
Samhain: The Celtic Fire festival of the new year, celebrated at the end of summer.
Scrying: Seeing magical images in a reflective medium, such as a crystal ball, mirror or a
natural moving source of inspiration, such as fire, water or clouds. The word 'scry' comes from
the Anglo-Saxon word descry, which means 'to perceive dimly'.
Shamanism: Possibly the oldest spiritual practice in the world, continued today in communities
as far apart as India, Australia, Japan and China, Siberia and Mongolia, in Africa, among the
Bedouins in the Middle East and in North, Central and South America.
Sky-clad: Naked.
Sky Gods: The powerful patriarchal gods of the classical and Viking world, for example Zeus of
the Greeks, Jupiter of the Romans, Odin of the Vikings and Thunor of the Anglo-Saxons. They
gained supremacy over the Earth Mother who appears as their wife-consort, full of human
foibles.
Solstice: One of the main astronomical points of the year. The summer solstice (21 June, or 21
December in the southern hemisphere) marks the Sun at its height and greatest power. The
winter solstice (21 December or 21 June) is the shortest day when the Sun is at its weakest and
it was feared by early humans that the Sun would die.

71
Spirit guides: Guardians from another dimension who advise and protect humans. They may
be deceased relatives, wise teachers, for example Native Americans, angels or evolved
essences who never assumed mortal form.
Talisman: A charm or amulet that has been charged with specific healing or magical energies to
make it powerful and to attract health, wealth or luck. It tends to become more powerful the more
it is used.
Tarot: A pack of 78 highly illustrated cards often used in rituals to represent people or qualities
that are being sought in a spell.
Threefold Law: A law in Wicca that states that whatever you do or send to others, good or bad,
will be returned to you threefold - a great incentive to positive thought and action.
Thurible: See Censer.
Transcendent: Term used of god forms to express the belief that their existence extends
beyond and is separate from creation. See also Immanent.
Triple Goddess: A concept of a deity found in many cultures. May represent the three main
phases of the Moon - maiden, mother and crone - or, as in Celtic tradition especially, three
sisters.
Tulpa: A thought form created by medieval occultists seeking mastery over the elemental beings
that they fashioned by their incantations. In extreme cases a tulpa might destroy its creator -
hence the warnings of the Threefold Law.
Wheel of the Year: See Eightfold Wheel of the Year.
Wicca: A contemporary, neo-pagan religion that regards the divine life source as a part of
nature, not a force beyond creation. This divine source of life is manifest as the god and
goddess within everything living, male and female, animal, bird, tree and flower. Sometimes
regarded as the oldest religion on the world.
Wiccan Rede: See Rede.
Widdershins: Anti-clockwise, moon wise, or against the Sun. The direction used in closing a
circle, banishing or removing pain and in banishing magick generally. See also Deosil.
Yin and yang: The complementary components of everything in life, according to ancient
Chinese philosophy. Yang is the original Sun concept of light, power, masculinity, assertiveness,
logic and action. It controls heaven and all things positive. It is balanced by Yin, the original
Moon concept of darkness, receptivity, femininity, intuition, acceptance and inaction. Yin controls
the Earth and all things negative.
COPYRIGHT 2004 by Bogdan and Giancarlo
http://www.witchcraftexposed.com
