A	A	A	A	A 	W	W	W	W	W itch’	itch’	itch’	itch’	itch’s	s	s	s	s
B	B	B	B	B ev	ev	ev	ev	ever	er	er	er	erag	ag	ag	ag	ages	es	es	es	es
and	and	and	and	and 	B	B	B	B	B r	r	r	r	rews	ews	ews	ews	ews
Magick P	Magick P	Magick P	Magick P	Magick Potions Made Easy	otions Made Easy	otions Made Easy	otions Made Easy	otions Made Easy
By
Patricia Telesco
NEW PAGE BOOKS
A division of The Career Press, Inc.
Franklin Lakes, NJ

Copyright  2001 by Patricia Telesco
All rights reserved under the Pan-American and International Copy-
right Conventions. This book may not be reproduced, in whole or in
part, in any form or by any means electronic or mechanical, including
photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval
system now known or hereafter invented, without written permission
from the publisher, The Career Press.
A WITCH’S BEVERAGES AND BREWS
Cover design by Cheryl Finbow
Typesetting by Eileen Munson
Printed in the U.S.A. by Book-mart Press
To order this title, please call toll-free 1-800-CAREER-1 (NJ and
Canada: 201-848-0310) to order using VISA or MasterCard, or for fur-
ther information on books from Career Press.
The Career Press, Inc., 3 Tice Road, PO Box 687,
Franklin Lakes, NJ 07417
www.newpagebooks.com
www.careerpress.com
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Telesco, Patricia, 1960-
A witch’s beverages and brews : magick potions made easy / by
Patricia Telesco.
p. 	cm.
Includes index.
ISBN 1-56414-486-0 (pbk.)
1. Witchcraft. 2. Beverages—Miscellanea. 3. Brewing—Miscellanea.
I. Title.
BF1572.R4 T447 2000
133.4’4—dc21 	00-033912

This book is dedicated to good friends, with-
out whom there would be little worthy of toasting.
Specifically, to Walker, I promise never to serve
you anything other than Coors Light and Sam
Adams again. Rowan, Kit, and Danya, you can
show this to him when he gets uppity.
To Maggie, AJ, Wade, Diane, Betsy, Talyn,
Corwyn, T’sa, the Guardians, and many others
who never forget a cold beer and a warm smile.
And finally, to all the wonderful festival co-
ordinators everywhere, who deserve far more
thanks for their time and efforts than any one
dedication can manage. Without you, our com-
munity would be sorely wanting. Cheers!

C	C	C	C	C ONT	ONT	ONT	ONT	ONTENT	ENT	ENT	ENT	ENTS	S	S	S	S
INTRODUCTION 	9
Part One - History’s Chalice 	13
CHAPTER 1: THEN AND NOW - RELIGION, MYTH, AND MAGICK 	15
Historical and Magickal Roots 	16
Legends and Lore 	20
Medicinal Beverages 	23
Summary 	26
CHAPTER 2: FROM CAULDRON TO CUP: MAKING THE MAGICK! 	27
Pouring out, Asperging, Anointing, or Bathing 	28
Liquid Divination 	29
Potent Potions 	3 1
Magickal Concocting 	33
Drinking Vessels 	34
Toasts 	35
Focused Drinking 	36
Beverages to Enhance Food 	36
CHAPTER 3: HELPFUL HINTS 	39
Basic Brewing Tools 	40
Beer 	42

Beer – Non-Alcoholic 	43
Frappes 	44
Juicing 	45
Mead 	46
Mead – Non-Alcoholic 	48
Soda Pop 	49
Wine 	5 1
Wine – Flower and Vegetable 	53
Wine – Non-Alcoholic 	55
Part 2 - The Recipes 	57
Introduction 	59
Mundane Considerations 	59
Using This Book 	6 1
Abundance and Prosperity 	62
Balance 	67
Banishment 	70
Beauty and Glamoury 	75
Change and Transformation 	79
Cleansing and Purification 	83
Communication 	88
Conscious Mind 	92
Devotion and Commitment 	96
Dreams and Meditation 	100
Elemental and Seasonal 	103
Fertility and Providence 	11 1
Grounding and Foundations 	1 1 6
Happiness 	122
Health 	1 2 7
Inspiration and Creativity 	134
Kinship, Unity, Friendship 	137

Love and Romance 	143
Luck 	148
Magick 	152
Peace and Rest 	157
Protection 	162
Psychism and Awareness 	166
Sensuality and Sexuality 	1 7 1
Sun and Moon 	178
Versatility 	182
Victory and Success 	185
Wisdom 	189
APPENDIX A: 	193
BEVERAGES, INGREDIENTS, AND
DIVINE/MAGICKAL 	ASSOCIATIONS
APPENDIX 	B: 	201
SYMBOLISM AND CORRESPONDENCES
APPENDIX C: 	205
POSSIBLE BREWING DEITIES
APPENDIX D: 	209
U.S.TO METRIC CONVERSIONS
BIBLIOGRAPHY 	2 1 1
INDEX 	217

This page intentionally left blank

9
IIIII NTR	NTR	NTR	NTR	NTRODUC	ODUC	ODUC	ODUC	ODUCTION	TION	TION	TION	TION
“Oh, many a peer of England brews,
livelier liquor than the muse;
and malt does more than Milton can,
to justify God’s ways to man.”
—Alfred E. Houseman
As most people stumble into the kitchen and reach for a
morning cup of coffee, they probably do not think of this mo-
ment as remotely magickal—except perhaps for that uncanny
spiritual pleasure derived from the first sip. Nonetheless, cof-
fee (along with many other beverages) has played an impor-
tant role in the world’s mystical and religious practices! In fact,
temple altars from Japan to South America have often been
adorned with elaborate cups just waiting to be filled. With what?
All manner of drinks including wine, water, beer, milk, or other
similar liquids aimed at honoring and appeasing the god or god-
dess to whom that temple was built.
While this custom seems far removed from our drive-
through society, you will still see water- or wine- filled chal-
ices on many church altars today. Even outside this setting
there are a lot of beverages that we have come to treasure on
a personal, familial, or cultural level. For example, do you
prepare eggnog on Yule from an old family recipe or always

10
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
use the same set of glasses to serve out wine for special occa-
sions? These kinds of actions indicate a unique quality in bev-
erages that has captured human imaginations and taste buds
for centuries!
This book comes to you with that rich heritage in mind
by offering options for an assortment of enchanted brews
and beverages that will appease your physical and spiritual
thirst. Additionally, you’ll find effective ideas for using the
folklore and history of various beverages as a way to add
culturally or personally significant dimensions to anything
you might wish to drink. The liberal mixing of tradition and
custom with creativity allows you to draw on the best of the
past and present for a potent blend whose energies you in-
ternalize when you quaff it!
As you might have gathered by my enthusiasm, I really
enjoy the ancient art of brewing as a hobby. But there are
plenty of recipes and techniques discussed here for those of
you who are time-challenged. The great beauty of beverage
magick is that it need not be complex at all. Even the simplest
of beverages prepared with willful focus and sound metaphysi-
cal methods can have just as potent results as those made dili-
gently from scratch. For example, rather than make a wine or
juice yourself, you can simply use the blessing and energizing
methods suggested with a store-bought brand. So long as the
ingredients in a beverage and your intentions match, there’s
no limit to the kind of results you can achieve this way.
I offer the recipes and methods in this book as a sensitive
exploration of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages as a
magickal tool. While many people choose not to imbibe these
days, magick recognizes that anything treated respectfully holds
the potential for positive energy. Additionally, many alcoholic
beverages were considered sacred when served out in a liturgi-
cal context. So, even if we decide against consuming alcoholic
beverages for personal reasons, that doesn’t mean it can’t be-
come an offering or libation in the context of a ritual or spell.

11
I n t r o d u c t i o n
As with magickal cooking, spiritually enhanced beverages
require some thoughtfulness in their making. This book of-
fers you various ways of personalizing recipes so that they
reflect your preferred flavors and prevalent needs all in one
glass. The appendix of ingredients and magickal correspon-
dences will also help with that process, as will keeping your
inventive, intuitive self close by while you work.
By making your own ritual brews, you are partaking in an
age-old tradition. No matter the final use of that liquid, this
gives you a chance to blend talent, vision, love, and discretion
into something tasty and filled to overflowing with blessings.
Stir up a witch’s brew today!

P	P	P	P	Par	ar	ar	ar	art 1	t 1	t 1	t 1	t 1
H	H	H	H	H 	i s t o r y ’	i s t o r y ’	i s t o r y ’	i s t o r y ’	i s t o r y ’ s	s	s	s	s
C	C	C	C	C 	h a l i c e	h a l i c e	h a l i c e	h a l i c e	h a l i c e

15
CHAPTER 1
T	T	T	T	T HEN	HEN	HEN	HEN	HEN 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	N	N	N	N	N OW	OW	OW	OW	OW :	::	::
R	R	R	R	RELIGION	ELIGION	ELIGION	ELIGION	ELIGION , M	, M	, M	, M	, M YTH	YTH	YTH	YTH	YTH ,	,,	,, 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	M	M	M	M	M AGICK	AGICK	AGICK	AGICK	AGICK
“As he brews, so shall he drink.”
—Ben Johnson
“Since nature’s holy law is drinking, I’ll make the law
of nature mine and pledge the universe in wine.”
—Tom Moore
The history of beverages and specifically brewing is far
more intimately linked with religion, lore, and societal tradi-
tions than most people realize. There was even a time when
certain beverages had to be prepared by a priest or monk,
feeling that the art was a sacred task. Add to that the fact that
we still call alcohol “spirits” and continue to toast special oc-
casions with beverages (which is actually a kind of invocation),
and you begin to see how much of our drinking customs have
a mystical connection—albeit somewhat removed from our
modern mind-set, except perhaps in a few spiritual sectors.
Today’s witches, for example, are very practical and cre-
ative. We look to everything in the world as having potential in
our practices, including our foods and beverages. In fact, these
hold even more potential because you consume them, literally
taking the energy into yourself and accepting it into every cell

16
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
in your body. Before you can make this huge leap from just grab-
bing a glass of water to quaffing magick, however, it helps to see
from where our methods and ideas on this subject originate.
H	H	H	H	H IS	IS	IS	IS	IST	T	T	T	TORICAL	ORICAL	ORICAL	ORICAL	ORICAL AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	M	M	M	M	M AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL 	R	R	R	R	R OO	OO	OO	OO	OOT	T	T	T	TS	S	S	S	S
To understand the ancient reverence for beverages, we
have to turn back the hands of time. In humankind’s earlier
history, water was not always safe to consume. So when brew-
ing came along it was honored as a gift of the gods that could
keep people healthy and make them feel happy. Thus it was
that all manner of fermented beverages found their way into
healing, the church, social occasions, and magickal methods.
On a far simpler level, the human body requires a certain
amount of liquid to survive. So, milk and water held similar
places of honor. Milk, for example, often symbolized the God-
dess being that it’s a beverage produced by woman that liter-
ally gives life to a child and protects the baby’s health. Water in
desert regions was often used as a viable, and very costly, offer-
ing to the Divine when needs were pressing. To give of some-
thing that was in such short supply surely would get a god or
goddess’s attention!
Here is a brief overview of the ways in which specific bever-
ages were introduced into religious and magickal settings
throughout history:
Beer: 	Egyptians had beer very early, perhaps
as long ago as 6,000 B.C.E. They credited
this beverage to the wise god Osiris, and
used it in rituals in his honor. They also
included beers in their divine myths, and
as part of embalming traditions where it
(or sometimes wine) was buried with the
mummy for that person’s enjoyment in
the afterlife.

17
T h e n 	a n d 	N o w : 	R e l i g i o n , 	M y t h, a n d 	M a g i c k
Much later in history we find medi-
eval monks and nuns using beer as part
of healing, often adding magickal meth-
ods to the preparations neatly disguised
with Christian-sounding prayers. In Ger-
many, beer halls were considered one of
the few places legal transactions could
take place because no one would insult
these walls with false intentions. There
was even a special profession here for the
person who brewed beer for Pagan offer-
ings. That individual was to have no other
duties then tending the sacred brews.
In Celtic society, beer was a part of
every social occasion and named accord-
ingly. For example, beer for a burial
might be called “inheritance beer.” In
this setting, priests were often in charge
of brewing, and it was regarded as quite
an honorable vocation.
Coffee: 	Coffee was (and still is) a well-honored
beverage in Arabia, where it is used as
part of hospitality rites and in the rituals
of the Whirling Dervishes. In this part of
the world there is even a patron saint of
coffee lovers: Sheikhesh Shadhilly!
Distilled Beverages: These likely originated in Arabic cul-
tures, but this is a best guess by histori-
ans, and the early histories of this type
of drink are very sketchy. Even so, dur-
ing the Middle Ages we find people
drinking a distilled mixture called Aqua
Vitae with dozens of herbs steeped
within to insure health and longevity.

18
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Haomas: 	A Persian beverage believed to confer
longevity to those who consumed it,
haomas symbolized the earth’s bounty
and immortality. It was often used as
both an offering for Ormuzd, a greater
god, and as a panacea.
Mead: 	A type of honey wine very popular among
Saxons, it was used as part of wedding
rites to insure fertility and love. Many
weddings were actually followed by a
month (one full moon cycle) of mead
drinking which is how we come by the
modern phrase “honeymoon.” Greeks
and Romans alike revered this beverage
for its magickal healing qualities, and in
ancient Alexandria a cup of mead was
often left on tables to invoke the God-
dess on the last day of the month.
Milk: 	Since the very first mammal suckled its
child, there has been milk on this planet.
As a symbol of nurturing sustenance and
the feminine creative power, there is little
else to compare to this beverage. It is not
surprising to discover that it was consid-
ered a sacred beverage to many mother
goddess figures.
As an interesting side note, the do-
mestication of animals in Neolithic times
has an extra benefit: ready milk! Rather
than gathering it from nuts or having to
chase after milk-producing animals, the
creatures were at hand, which also meant
the milk would not spoil!

19
T h e n 	a n d 	N o w : 	R e l i g i o n , 	M y t h, a n d 	M a g i c k
Soma: 	Soma was an herbal beverage created in
Central Asia specifically for religious ob-
servances. In Hindu tradition it repre-
sented faithfulness, friendship, and the
spirit of the muse. In fact, the texts of the
Rig Veda calls soma “master of a thou-
sand songs” and “leader of sages.”
Tea: 	A very ancient beverage, tea was already
a staple trade good in China by 500 C.E.
Long before this, however, we discover
tea as part of elaborate rituals here, and
in other Eastern lands, because it was sa-
cred to Buddha. When tea found its way
to Europe and beyond, it quickly became
a favorite herb to use in divination.
Tze Mai: 	This is a mythical immortality beverage
in China for which philosophers and
priests searched so diligently that they
experienced advancements in medicine,
science, and geography in the process!
Wine: 	Numerous sacred texts ranging from the
Bible, the Edda, and Ramses IV tablets
all speak of wine in a religious setting. In
Egypt specifically, wine was considered
suited to the gods and goddesses to please
their palate, especially Isis. It was also
often left with bodies of Pharaohs and
other people of import upon mummifi-
cation. During the reign of Ramses
alone, the family donated 250,000 jugs of
wine to the temples.
In Greece, people connected wine so
strongly with the image of Dionysus that

20
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
the god himself was said to live in each
glass poured out. It’s not surprising that
we discover a method of divination by
wine in this region, and it was also used
as part of the traditional rites of passage
for young men.
Celts were similarly enamored of
wine. Here you could often find families
or groups of warriors drinking from one
common cup of wine to create unity and
kinship among them. Singular cups were
also used in wedding rites to link the
couple’s destiny.
This review is but a short montage from a much larger pic-
ture. Beverages have touched nearly every part of human life,
from our daily meals to celebrations and the early sciences. At
least part of the reason beverages found a comfortable niche
in so many settings is because they were included in the great
bardic stories told again and again at the fireside and the hearth.
L	L	L	L	L E	E	E	E	EGENDS	GENDS	GENDS	GENDS	GENDS AND	AND	AND	AND	AND L	L	L	L	L ORE	ORE	ORE	ORE	ORE
The complete beverage picture includes the great myths
and legends woven by storytellers throughout the millennia.
Above and beyond the fact that these stories give us a peek into
the way ancient people perceived the world and its mysteries,
they also reveal a lot of magick and mysticism along the way.
Norse: 	The Viking people were a hearty lot. Their folk-
lore speaks of an odd custom upon death.
Specifically, a person’s spirit must consume
all the beer spilled during life before entering
their final rest in Valhalla. I suspect this story
was meant to encourage care with precious

21
T h e n 	a n d 	N o w : 	R e l i g i o n , 	M y t h, a n d 	M a g i c k
beverages, but in looking back over my college
years I’m not sure I’d ever reach Valhalla!
Once this vigorous test is passed, the spirit
then goes to a special feast that includes mead
taken from the base of the Yggdrasil tree, the
tree of life. All who partake of this elixir are
guaranteed eternal life and well-being in the
company of their gods.
Two other great Norse legends (or at least
my personal favorites) have to do with Saga and
Thor. The first begins with Saga, the patroness
of history, being visited by Odin. When he drank
of her golden mead-cup, he was given the
knowledge of the past, present, and future!
The second story tells us that Loki chal-
lenged Thor to a drinking contest. Being the
typical trickster, Loki put the end of Thor’s
drinking horn in the sea. Needless to say, Thor
did not win that match, and the ebb tide remains
to this day to remind Thor of his attempt at
one-upmanship!
German: 	Speaking of the gods, the stories of Thor indi-
cate he has a special fondness for red bever-
ages. If you offer the first goblet of red wine to
him at a wedding, the festivities will be insured
of good weather! Another god, Bragi, was in
charge of keeping the mead that provided any
who drank it with the gift of the muse and po-
etry. If anyone invoked Bragi’s blessing on a
cup, they would be granted tremendous
orative skills. This connotation slowly trans-
formed to the god’s name being used for a
modern word: brag!

22
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
French: 	The classical story of Tristan and Isolt teaches
us much of magickal responsibility. Tristan was
a great man, and Isolt a great beauty who was
promised to another. Sadly the two drank a
love potion, gazed on one another, and were
doomed to love from a distance forever. While
we do not know what beverages were used for
this mixture, we do know one thing: Such pow-
erful brews shouldn’t be left laying around!
Chinese: 	Ancestor worship played a key role in bever-
age myths and practices here. According to lore,
one should always leave fermented beverages
for the deceased because it makes a spirit happy
(thereby decreasing the chance of being
haunted!).
Hindu: 	An old Indus legend says that the mighty god
Indra drank three bowls of soma to absorb its
life-giving qualities. Once these were consumed,
Indra could then extend his influence through-
out the world. Thus, priests and priestesses of
Indra often used soma as a preferred beverage
to boost magickal power!
Persian: 	Besides the haomas known for its wealth-pro-
ducing qualities, another beverage appears in
Persian stories called Banga. According to the
sage Zoroaster, this drink could produce divine
visions. Zoroaster (whose name, by the way,
means keeper of old camels) may have been
quite correct considering that one ingredient of
this mixture was hemp seed!
Egyptian: 	There are dozens of stories in Egypt that talk
about wine and beer, but my favorite begins with
Ra. At one point the great god grew weary of

23
T h e n 	a n d 	N o w : 	R e l i g i o n , 	M y t h, a n d 	M a g i c k
human folly and sent Hathor to destroy every-
one. Once his anger quelled, he reconsidered
his own hastiness and tried to get Hathor to stop.
The only way the goddess was going to be ap-
peased was by some fast thinking on Ra’s part.
He poured out 7,000 jugs of beer into a field to
where Hathor was heading. When she saw this,
she partook of the beer and her anger disap-
peared. Humankind was saved.
While our world no longer sees brewing as a great mystery
and has lost sight of these wonderful tales in all their charm,
there is no denying the importance of such legends and lore to
our magickal practices. Wiccans remain aware that certain im-
ages of the God or Goddess are fond of beverage offerings.
We also know that beverages can be used for asperging, for
libations, for after-ritual enjoyment, and much more if ap-
proached respectfully. At least part of the key to understand-
ing comes from history and heritage. Another key can be found
in the healing arts.
M	M	M	M	M EDICINAL	EDICINAL	EDICINAL	EDICINAL	EDICINAL 	B	B	B	B	B EVERAGES	EVERAGES	EVERAGES	EVERAGES	EVERAGES
Another reason people held alcoholic beverages in high
esteem can be uncovered in reviewing ancient prescriptions.
Tinctures, beers, wines, and other potent potables were often
used as a base in these blends, neatly covering the taste of a
nasty medicine and getting a stubborn person to rest. Addition-
ally, liqueurs provided a perfect medium into which one could
steep herbs for various remedial results.
How did healers choose the media and blend? Some reci-
pes were carefully guarded and handed down healer to stu-
dent, or through cultural lines. Alternatively, a country healer
might choose his or her blends by their symbolic value, which

24
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
is still important to our magick today. For example, red wine
was often chosen as a good base into which herbs for blood
troubles would be placed. Blood, being red, indicates what
color herbs or beverages should be used in the treatment pro-
cess. This is called the Law of Similars.
Adapting the Law of Similars to any spell or charm is very
simple. You look for a beverage whose color matches your goal
somehow. So, because red wine was used for blood or heart
treatments, how about it as part of a love spell, or one to heal
a broken heart?
Here’s a list of some of the other beverages used in healing
and the symbolic value they have considering their applications:
Cider: 	This was a chemical also considered a
cold drink suited for treating fevers.
Adapt this slightly to cool a hot head!
Distilled Beverages: These were used for many different pre-
scriptions, but often in the belief that the
more costly the base, the better the re-
sults. So, add some expensive liqueur to
your spell components to boost power.
Mead: 	This overall health-promoting beverage
could be used to improve mental, spiri-
tual, or physical well-being, or perhaps
aid the healthiness of a job situation or
relationship. Mead was also a common
component in toothache and gum
curatives, making a potential addition to
communication brews.
Tea: 	Another fairly widely applied curative,
tea probably saw the greatest amount of
use with chest congestion and stress-re-
lated disorders. This gives it strong con-
nections with the Air element or energy
for peacefulness and calming.

25
T h e n 	a n d 	N o w : 	R e l i g i o n , 	M y t h, a n d 	M a g i c k
Tincture: 	A tincture blends tea and alcohol into a
very mild mixture often applied for
spasms of any sort (coughing, twitching,
restless fidgeting, etc.). With this in
mind, we might use it magickally to calm
and pacify erratic energy.
Tonics: 	By definition, a tonic is any water-based
blend used to improve energy, revital-
ize, stimulate, strengthen, and/or nurture.
No tweaking needed here for magickal
applications!
Wine: 	Egyptians used wine in healing because
it was associated with the Snake God-
dess, who provided health, longevity, and
rebirth. Bearing this in mind, it is
magickally suited to secure endurance
for self or a beloved project, or help with
new beginnings.
Another interesting thing about the old remedials is that
instructions often include magickal-sounding methods mixed
in for good measure. Specific moonsigns were chosen as the
best time to create a blend, specific numbers of herbs added
into it, and then appropriate chants or prayers said over the
finished product.
It should be noted too that many of the beverages that came
from the witch’s cauldron were effective. For example, the old
gag of witches using toads in brewing isn’t so crazy sounding
when you realize that folkhealers were using toad skin to treat
heart problems (toad skin has a chemical similar to digitalis).
Likewise, healers in China used bones to treat convulsions
even as modern physicians administer calcium!
It was in this manner that the early healers remained aware
of their responsibility to the community, and served it with
practicality in one hand and magick in the other!

26
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
S	S	S	S	S UMMAR	UMMAR	UMMAR	UMMAR	UMMARY	Y	Y	Y	Y
In our ancestors search to improve their lives, they often
looked to beverages as part of the answer, or perhaps part of
the question. As they thirsted after understanding and discov-
ered new things, they diligently left us thirst-quenching recipes
and lore to ponder. You will find many of those ancient recipes
and beliefs in this book so you can partake in the heritage, and
hopefully answer part of your own quest in the process. The
ultimate goal of a kitchen witch or folk magician is to live the
magick, and bringing that special spark to our beverages is one
way of doing just that.

27
CHAPTER 2
F	F	F	F	F R	R	R	R	ROM	OM	OM	OM	OM 	C	C	C	C	C AULDR	AULDR	AULDR	AULDR	AULDRON	ON	ON	ON	ON 	T	T	T	T	TO	O	O	O	O 	C	C	C	C	C UP	UP	UP	UP	UP :	::	::
M	M	M	M	M AKING	AKING	AKING	AKING	AKING 	THE	THE	THE	THE	THE 	M	M	M	M	M AGICK	AGICK	AGICK	AGICK	AGICK !	!!	!!
“Bread to feed our friendship,
salt to keep it true,
water that’s for welcome,
wine to drink for you.”
—W. French
“There is naught, no doubt, so much the spirit calms
as rum and true religion.”
—Lord Byron
Bill Moyers in The Power of Myth said that “myths are the
stories of our search through the ages for truth, for meaning,
for significance.” To witches, this is a very important statement
that we take to heart. As did the cunning folk of old, we look
for deeper connotations to global myths and lore and then use
that meaning as a motivating force for magickal manifesta-
tion!
In Chapter 1, you saw that there are plenty of such stories
surrounding beverages. The next logical step becomes looking
at how we can apply them effectively in our beverage prepara-
tion, serving, and final utilization.

28
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
P	P	P	P	P OURING	OURING	OURING	OURING	OURING 	O	O	O	O	O UT	UT	UT	UT	UT , A	, A	, A	, A	, A SPER	SPER	SPER	SPER	SPERGING	GING	GING	GING	GING ,,,,,
A	A	A	A	A NOINTING	NOINTING	NOINTING	NOINTING	NOINTING ,,,,, 	OR	OR	OR	OR	OR 	B	B	B	B	B A	A	A	A	ATHING	THING	THING	THING	THING
Before looking at beverages to drink, it should be noted
that some liquids were applied in ways of which you might not
immediately think. One such custom seen quite frequently is
that of pouring out a beverage for magickal effects. Apollonius
wrote of the Argonauts pouring mead on the sea before sailing
for safe weather.
This custom appears in other cultural settings, too. On
New Year’s in England, for example, farmers would pour out
apple juice or cider onto the groves to insure themselves of a
hearty yield the next year. This particular idea is fairly easy
for any magickal gardener to use, except perhaps you might
want to prepare a liquid that will deter bugs or enrich your
soil physically as well as magickally!
A second custom from Europe is that of washing in sacred
wells or fonts, or drinking some of the water therein for health.
I see no problem with this so long as you know the water is
clean. And, because you’re a witch, you can even bless your
kitchen tap to act in a similar fashion!
The third approach, anointing, isn’t quite as common as
some of the methods discussed herein. I have, however, seen
spells or rituals that call for anointing a person with milk, wine,
or steeped herbs in the appropriate location for that ritual. For
example, a woman wishing to conceive might be dabbed with
milk near her breasts as a kind of sympathetic magick.
A fourth tradition is that of sprinkling out (asperging) a
sacred beverage, often to invoke rain, fertility (in people,
crops, or cattle), or request protection. To try the rain spell
yourself, use water-oriented components in creating the bev-
erage (catnip, daisy, elm, heather, thyme, and tomato are all
good examples), dip a broom into it, then shake it on the

29
Fro m C a u l d ro n t o C u p : M a k i n g t h e M a g i c k !
ground (making the visual appearance of rain). Note that
because you are not consuming this liquid, you need not worry
about flavor-only symbolic value.
For physical fertility, it’s far more productive to prepare a
beverage you (or an animal) can consume. This is because the
body can better benefit from taking the energy into itself and
processing it according to your vision and goal. If you’re using
it for the fertility of a garden, on the other hand, focus on using
soil-enhancing items like those from your compost pile steeped
in water.
Finally, in looking at protection we come to a far more fa-
miliar custom—baptism. Here water is poured on a child by
way of blessing and consecration. Pagans still often perform a
similar rite where they introduce a child to the Water element
in a naming ceremony. Alternatively, many witches sprinkle
water, wine, or other specially prepared beverages around the
perimeter of the sacred space to help protect and energize it.
Sometimes a bit of this liquid remains on the altar in a cup or
cauldron to be shared among the participants. They can take
it home after the gathering and dab a little on windows and
doors to inspire similar results.
As you can see, this gives you a lot of flexibility in how you
use any magickal beverage you create. And I’m not done yet!
L	L	L	L	L IQUID	IQUID	IQUID	IQUID	IQUID D	D	D	D	D IVINA	IVINA	IVINA	IVINA	IVINATION	TION	TION	TION	TION
Ancient stories are filled with beverages and fortune telling
mixed liberally together. Norse legends, for example, say that
Bragi’s inspiring mead was so potent because it had runes
blended within, thereby providing deep insights. More in the
realms of documented history, Roman sibyls used wine to
encourage altered states of awareness so they could become
a Divine oracle. This state was called enthcos, which means
one with God. Greeks observed any spatters made by wine

30
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
at gatherings for omens and signs. And in the Middle Ages,
the surface of a wine or water cup might be scried for images,
by a talented diviner.
Of these methods, I think the scrying or spattering tech-
nique is the most serviceable to modern witches. Take a bever-
age whose color, flavor, or base has symbolic value to the
question you have. Pour a little in a dark bowl or cup then fol-
low these instructions based on which method you’ve chosen:
S c r y i n g
Put a lit candle near the bowl or cup so the flame is reflected
in the liquid. Close your eyes for a moment and think of your
question. When you have the question fully formulated, open
your eyes and watch the surface of the beverage. Don’t try to see
anything in particular. In fact, let your vision blur a little.
Wait and see what appears. Sometimes you’ll see symbols
in the light reflections, other times movement or clouds. If the
latter, movement up and to the right is a positive response; down
and to the left is a negative response. Swirling clouds mean
there’s no easy answer right now. Symbolic images should be
interpreted according to the picture (you may find a dream dic-
tionary helps with this).
If the reading is particularly positive you may wish to drink
the beverage afterwards to internalize that future. However, a
negative reading might be better poured out to release those
bad “vibes” so the earth can carry the energy away from you.
Spattering
Pour your beverage of choice into a bowl and have a white,
absorbent piece of paper nearby. Stir the liquid clockwise with
your strong hand while you think of your question. Next, either
pour a couple of drops of this liquid onto the paper, or sprinkle
some out with your finger tips (flicking it lightly off so you don’t
stain your clothing or a table cloth).

31
Fro m C a u l d ro n t o C u p : M a k i n g t h e M a g i c k !
From here you can proceed in one of two ways. Some
people just let the pattern dry and look for meaning in it then.
Other people like to fold the paper while thinking of their
question, then open it and observe the results, somwhat like
finding images in an ink blot! Both approaches work perfectly
well. Just choose one that suits you and feels right at the mo-
ment.
In terms of interpreting the resulting patterns, books on
tea leaf reading often prove quite helpful here. The images tend
to have similar “rough” qualities. You can use the center of the
paper to represent the present (or very intimate matters) and
the outer edges to represent the future and cursory matters.
Where a pattern lands will then help you understand its mean-
ing more thoroughly.
P	P	P	P	P O	O	O	O	OT	T	T	T	TENT	ENT	ENT	ENT	ENT P	P	P	P	P O	O	O	O	OTIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS
The most popular way to use beverages for magick by far is
that of potion making. It’s difficult to read any old metaphysi-
cal treatise without stumbling over witch’s brews scattered
throughout the pages. These recipes include nearly every fath-
omable ingredient for an equally impressive number of appli-
cations. Here’s just a sampling of some of the old potions I came
across in my readings:
 	Jet powdered in water to keep snakes at bay, or
steeped in wine to cure elf magick. Note the second
blend must be consumed over nine days to break the
spell (Anglo-Saxon charm).
 	Angelica in vinegar to banish negative magick (yuck,
I suspect it turns stomachs, too). This comes from
France.
 	Vervain gathered by a new moon and drunk in juice
before sunrise for devotion (European tradition).

32
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
 	Boneset tea to repel evil spirits (Saxon charm).
 	Carrot and sunflower seeds consumed in wine to
promote fertility (England).
 	Chrysolite powdered in wine to negate foolish
thoughts (Greece).
 	Elder and borage picked on Midsummer Day and
drunk twice a month with water to insure youth
(England).
 	Pine resin mixed with water and wine to encourage
longevity (China).
 	Saffron tincture for offsetting the effects of jaundice
(Asia).
 	Dill wine to cure hiccups (Mediterranean region).
 	Egg and whiskey blended together to cure dysentery
(Ireland).
 	Ambergris in coffee to encourage passion (Europe).
 	Bindweed potion to deter pain (Germany).
These potions often included subtle symbolic values that
you might not notice immediately. For example, the use of saf-
fron against jaundice is significant because this herb is ruled by
the sun—a type of light that still helps this condition. Likewise,
bindweed is chosen for pain because of its “binding” name, and
elder and borage were picked on Midsummer Day because that’s
when magickal herbs are thought to be most potent!
Most often the symbolism in these potions could be iden-
tified by a color, number, or timing. You may want to use
some of these ideas in preparing your own witchy beverages
and brews, so please refer to Appendix B.

33
Fro m C a u l d ro n t o C u p : M a k i n g t h e M a g i c k !
M	M	M	M	M AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL 	C	C	C	C	C ONC	ONC	ONC	ONC	ONCOC	OC	OC	OC	OCTING	TING	TING	TING	TING
Beyond the symbolic value you give to your brews, there
are other simple things to consider for magickal preparations.
First, make sure you’re in the right frame of mind for a spiri-
tual undertaking. If you’re tired, sick, angry, or feeling “off,”
that negative energy can easily spill into your preparation, so
it might be best to wait unless the need is pressing.
Also think about the environment in which you’re work-
ing. It’s prudent to have a clean, physically and psychically
clear work space. Remove items that distract you from any-
thing other than the task at hand.
Next, make sure you have all the ingredients and tools you
need. It’s very distracting to stop a spell or incantation in the
middle because you forgot something. Such distractions can
cause the energy to go awry.
If you wish you can play music, light candles, burn incense,
chant, pray, or even create a sacred space within which to pre-
pare the brew. The first three are pretty easy to figure out—
find music that uplifts your spirit, candles of a thematic color,
and incense whose aroma matches your goal. Chanting and/or
prayer can be rhymed, take the form of an incantation, or what-
ever suits your mood.
If you’re unfamiliar with making sacred space, this really is a
matter of changing your attitude. Approach your work area like
you might a church. Then ask your vision of the sacred, and the
four powers of Earth, Air, Fire, and Water to watch over your
efforts and you won’t go far wrong. It is best that you find a way
to do this that’s comfortable, otherwise you’ll be so self-conscious
that it will be hard to focus on the magick you’re creating.
Remember to keep your purpose foremost in your mind
while you prepare the beverage. If it’s something you’re going
to age and/or store away, make sure to label it creatively (in-
clude ingredients, timing, etc., if you think it important) so

34
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
you know for what it’s intended. For example, a love beverage
might be called Raspberry Romance if it was based in rasp-
berries. This also eliminates the chance that a friend with rasp-
berry allergies might sip your brew! Likewise, if you’ve made
a brew specifically for asperging or libations, make sure you
label it as NOT FOR CONSUMPTION to avoid mishaps.
The great beauty of beverage magick is that it requires
few tools and very little time to make something potent, mean-
ingful, and tasty.
D	D	D	D	D RINKING	RINKING	RINKING	RINKING	RINKING 	V	V	V	V	V ESSELS	ESSELS	ESSELS	ESSELS	ESSELS
One really simple way of adding meaning to your beverage
is by using special serving vessels whose color, shape, or imag-
ery accents your goal in some way. Our ancestors used every-
thing from bowls and drinking gourds to elaborate horns and
gem-encrusted chalices for their beverages. For example, rul-
ers often drank from an amethyst cup to safeguard themselves
from drunkenness. The stone itself was said to have this prop-
erty, but more likely the idea was to make it appear as if they
were having wine instead of water! Another example comes
from Norse legend, where stories tell of runes being carved
into cups to protect the bearer from being poisoned. Should
anything ill touch that cup, the runes would cause it to shatter
or the beverage within to turn a hideous color, thereby mark-
ing the treachery.
In Gypsy and Celtic tradition, couples being handfasted
or married would drink from one cup to link their destiny. In
Germany, pledge or oath cups appeared during contractual
agreements. In this case a sip sealed the deal! In all three of
these settings refusing a cup from one’s host was a tremen-
dous insult, whereas accepting it also graciously accepted the
hospitality extended.

35
Fro m C a u l d ro n t o C u p : M a k i n g t h e M a g i c k !
Nothing says we can’t follow these example with magickally
significant adaptations! Bowls, for example, might be best suited
to beverages we make for our pets. A lovely red goblet, on the
other hand, might be used for a love potion. Bear in mind that
overall, cups represent the Goddess because of the womb-like
shape. If you want something more strongly aligned with the
God aspect, look for squared-off drinking vessels.
Similarly we can consider how many cups should be used
to hold our finished brews. One cup is fantastic to symbolize
unity and harmony, while two might be better suited to a mu-
tual partnership. In a group setting, each person could dip his
or her cup into a communal cauldron—here the cauldron be-
comes the emblem of fellowship, while the singular cup repre-
sents the importance of each individual to that group. Really,
the options here are as endless as your imagination will allow.
T	T	T	T	T O	O	O	O	OAS	AS	AS	AS	AST	T	T	T	TS	S	S	S	S
We talked briefly in Chapter 1 about toasts being a kind of
prayer or invocation. This tradition is very old. In the Zend Avesta
(sacred Persian texts) there are many illustrations of a celebrant
or priest raising a cup to the sky saying “I claim thee, O yellow
one, for inspiration, for strength, for vigor.” The “yellow one”
is h•Haomas, but the rest of the toast is certainly a welcom-
ing of Spirit, or more specifically the energy of the beverage.
Exactly what form a toast takes depends on the purpose of
the beverage or the theme of a gathering. For example, if your
group was doing a love ritual honoring Aphrodite, it might be
good to use a quote from Madge Merton who said “Great spirit
of the grape—delirious kiss of lips immortal from the sky, rare
nectar of Olympus born of bliss, bright spark of Aphrodite’s eye!”
Believe it or not, I found that in a book dedicated to toasting!
Now, if you’re someone who doesn’t have quote books
handy for just such occasions, fret not! There’s no reason you

36
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
can’t make up your own magickal toasts. They need not rhyme
or have fancy words. They do, however, need to be heartfelt and
meaningful to you. Words have great power to help your magick
along, especially words spoken with conviction and focus.
F	F	F	F	F OCUSED	OCUSED	OCUSED	OCUSED	OCUSED 	D	D	D	D	D RINKING	RINKING	RINKING	RINKING	RINKING
Speaking of focus, it is very important to keep your atten-
tion directed to your goal as you enjoy magickal beverages too.
Remember that every drop carries with it a spark of energy
that mingles with your aura and every cell in your body. When
created and consumed correctly, this can change the entire
pattern of the energy that you carry, both within and without.
Such transformations lie at the very heart and soul of what
magick is all about, so drink thoughtfully and expectantly!
B	B	B	B	B E	E	E	E	EVERAGES	VERAGES	VERAGES	VERAGES	VERAGES T	T	T	T	TO	O	O	O	O E	E	E	E	E NHANCE	NHANCE	NHANCE	NHANCE	NHANCE F	F	F	F	F OOD	OOD	OOD	OOD	OOD
Because when we drink we often eat too, why not combine
the two activities into something magickally oriented? You
could, for example, add an energized beverage into a soup, stew,
or casserole. One illustrative idea along this line is putting a
little plum wine into your chicken stew for abundance or ro-
mance. Or, marinate and baste the main dish with the signifi-
cant beverage (like mead over ham for happiness and health).
Here are some other ideas for you to try:
 	Start a glaze base with a beverage, adding butter, sugar,
and/or herbs as desired for more meaning and flavor.
 	Use beverages as part of desserts (or dessert toppings).
One example here would be making a syrup out of rose
wine and pouring it over angel food cake for sweet,
innocent love.

37
Fro m C a u l d ro n t o C u p : M a k i n g t h e M a g i c k !
 	Add the beverage to sauce and gravy. You don’t need a
lot. The energy pattern created by your magick will dis-
perse itself into the whole blend even when you use only
a drop or two!
 	Consider beverages as flavorful components in jellies,
jams, and conserves (be sure to adjust any other liquid
proportions accordingly). There’s some nice symbolism
here of having the magick “jell” or “solidify.”
I cannot stress enough just how much variety and flexibil-
ity you have available to you in beverage magick. Try not to
get stuck in a rut as you go along. While it’s good to develop
skill in one area and build on that, it’s also good to play a little
and let your imagination run wild. Joy has a lot of magick in it
without any trappings—so brew and enjoy yourself. In the
words of Homer:
And wine can, of their wits beguile
make the sage frolic and the serious smile!

39
CHAPTER 3
H	H	H	H	H ELPFUL	ELPFUL	ELPFUL	ELPFUL	ELPFUL 	H	H	H	H	H INT	INT	INT	INT	INTS	S	S	S	S
This chapter will provide you with insights about brewing
alcoholic beverages and other rather unique items such as pop
that many people have probably never tried making. If you find
you have trouble getting the recipes in the book to work right,
this section will help you over the natural stumbling blocks that
come with the learning process.
Also, if you find you don’t have the time to make these items
from scratch, don’t despair. There is nothing that says you
can’t thoughtfully buy a prepared item, bless it, add some fla-
vorings, and stir up the magick with just as much success!
Eight years ago, with the help of my husband, I haphazardly
worked through the very first batch of home brew our family
ever enjoyed. All things considered, that experiment was very
successful and also very contagious. We kept finding new com-
binations of fruits, juices, and spices to try. Slowly this process
refined itself into a few favored recipes, at least one of which is
trusted to only a handful of close friends.
The ideas and advice offered in this section come from my
own simplified experiences. If you are already an accomplished
brewer, you may find some of the techniques presented here (and
the rest of the book) a little rudimentary. Mostly, they have been
assembled for folks who do not have access to fancier brewing

40
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
equipment and supplies, or those who prefer using less spe-
cialized methods.
There is no reason not to employ these formulas using
better accoutrements and tactics should you desire. Most of the
systems portrayed generate brews that closely resemble histori-
cal wines, beers, etc. More refined procedures and tools produce
beverages closer to modern standards, taste, and familiarity.
B	B	B	B	B ASIC	ASIC	ASIC	ASIC	ASIC B	B	B	B	B REWING	REWING	REWING	REWING	REWING T	T	T	T	T OOLS	OOLS	OOLS	OOLS	OOLS
 	Gallon-sized screw top or cork bottles.
 	Balloons and rubber bands, which make excellent make-
shift fermentation locks.
 	Strainers, cheesecloth, or gauze to filter out sediments.
I have found that bits of nylon, sheer silk, and other
thin, clean scraps of material function as makeshift
strainers.
 	Mixing bowls, preferably stoneware or pottery.
 	Freezer-friendly pans (for frappes).
 	Large cooking pans that are not aluminum.
 	Funnels in various sizes.
 	Large wooden spoon or other stirring utensil and a slot-
ted spoon to remove large brewing components (fruit,
etc.).
 	Sharp knife or athame for cutting herbs and fruits.
 	Mortar and pestle to macerate root herbs such as ginger.
 	Active bread, wine, or beer yeast.
 	Accurate measuring tools.
 	A clean, tight woven, cotton cloth to cover beverages
during the first fermentation. Clean dish towels work.

41
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
 	A cool, dark storage area.
 	A must jar. This is a type of plastic or glass container
where brewing leftovers (fruit, spices, bits of wine) go.
Some people use must for making jams, jellies, sauces,
and the like.
Non-Essential Tools (But Fun Ones)
 	A hydrometer. This measures the alcohol content of your
finished wines, meads, etc.
 	Fermentation locks. These come in various sizes to keep
your bottles from accidentally exploding when pressure
builds. They are inexpensive (usually under $1 each) and
keep you from having to clean up a very sticky mess.
Pressure in brewing bottles becomes quite volatile
in the initial stages of fermentation. This can cause
bottles to explode, throwing glass shards everywhere.
Therefore, commit yourself to either monitoring your
brews on a daily basis (burping the bottles), to using
balloons on the bottle tops during early fermentation,
or to buying some fermentation locks. After having
cleaned up more than one explosion in my cellar, trust
me when I say this is important.
 	Camden tablets. These help the pace of fermentation
to be steady. Also sometimes called “nutrients.”
 	Fermentation casks—beautiful wooden casks that make
your cellar look like the brewing closets of olde. These
also give a distinctive flavor to wines and beers often
peculiar to the type of wood the barrel is made from.
An alternative is a glass carboy (price about $15) with
cap and stopper.
 	Clarifying tools. These usually consist of a glass jar and
special tubing that allows only the clear wine to be si-
phoned off your fermenting container.

42
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
 	Corn sugar—makes beverages ferment more quickly
and have clearer flavors.
 	Sparkaloid—helps to clarify beers.
 	Sterilizer or antioxidant (450 milligrams sodium
metabisulphite per gallon). Be aware that some people
have negative reactions to sulphites.
 	Citric acid—may be used in place of citrus fruit when
you want the content but not the flavor.
 	Sorbistat—prevents refermentation once a beverage has
been boiled to stop the process.
B	B	B	B	B EER	EER	EER	EER	EER
“Beer is liquid Bread.”
—Liebig
Known to the Anglo-Saxons as breowan, Germans as
briuwan, Norse as brugga, French as brasser, and Irish as
brach, by any name beer is beverage of “everyman.” This sym-
bolism seems to remain with us magickally where beer can
represent friendly gatherings, mutual interests, friendship,
relaxation, and similar themes. There are certainly other ap-
plications for beer, but considering the way beer continues to
be used in our society, these symbols seem the most congru-
ent.
In Strabo XVII 2.5 we read, “Beer is in use with a number
of peoples, and each one brews it somewhat differently.” It is
because of this variety that giving a basic beer recipe is diffi-
cult, at best. Every cultural group and nearly every brewer
approaches it differently. So, instead of a static process here,
I’d like to provide you with helpful hints when you find you’re
having trouble with the beer recipes.

43
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
Helpful Hints for Beer Making
 	If possible, always use dry beer yeast versus a bread
yeast. Beer yeast is always labeled for top (ale) or bot-
tom (lager) fermentation and yields a much clearer bev-
erage with no lingering “yeasty” flavor. Generally, home
brewers are more successful with ale yeast, which works
well at room temperature.
Please note that the brewers yeast frequently sold in
health food stores cannot be used for actual brewing. It
is inert and will not encourage proper fermentation.
 	Of hops readily available through brewing stores, Clus-
ter, Cascade, Hallertau, and Saaz are some of the best.
 	Irish moss, if added to the boiling process for the last
few minutes, helps clarify your beer.
 	Whenever possible, use spring water as a base for your
beer. This is especially important for people who live in
cities with poorer quality water. Any sediments in the
tap water can drastically change the flavor of your fin-
ished product.
 	When you notice that the bottom of your fermenting
jars look as if they are covered with film, it is time to
rack off the clear liquid. Leaving sediment in the bot-
tom of the jar makes for bitter beers. Racking may be
done either by carefully pouring off the top portion of
the beer and rinsing the bottle or by siphoning.
B	B	B	B	B EER	EER	EER	EER	EER – N	– N	– N	– N	– N ON	ON	ON	ON	ON -	-	-	-	-A	A	A	A	A L	L	L	L	LC	C	C	C	COHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC
In actuality, these are “small” beers in that a minute amount
of alcohol content is created in the production. If you feel you
need to totally eliminate this, once the beverage is ready to
drink, boil it (no hotter than 180 degrees), effectively evapo-
rating any alcohol, then chill and serve. The only problem with

44
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
boiling is that it deters the “head” of the beer. To compen-
sate, prepare your batches slightly stronger than desired, boil
them at 180 degrees for 15 minutes, then serve with a little
seltzer water to achieve “fizz.”
These beverages should not be stored for more than four
to six weeks if you want to keep the alcohol content at a mini-
mum. To alleviate this problem, after the first brief fermenta-
tion period keep the bottles in a refrigerator. This will inhibit
the yeast, while extending the shelf life to about four months.
F	F	F	F	F RAPPES	RAPPES	RAPPES	RAPPES	RAPPES
Frappes are semi-frozen drinks served in iced cups. Usu-
ally frappes are made from fruit juices or flavored waters and
sweetener, which are blended then half frozen to take on a
snow-like consistency. To quote modern commercials, in this
beverage “the thrill is the chill!”
In all recipes provided in this book, except where noted,
the following basic directions should be used. As is the case
with soda pop, it is best to use a sweetener in syrup form to mix
evenly with the juice(s). Next, you combine the syrup with hot
juice and flavor with any additional ingredients desired. Please
add these components slowly, taste testing for personal prefer-
ence at this point. Cool and pour into a shallow pan for freez-
ing. Stir this occasionally so the liquid freezes evenly.
When the entire batch has equal amounts of ice through-
out, remove it from the pan and crush it with the flat of a wooden
spoon. Once a uniform consistency is reached, fluff with a fork
in the same manner you would beat an egg. The beverage can
be placed in a tall, chilled glass at this point and garnished with
fruit, flavored whipped cream, some sundae syrup, or whatever
seems fitting.
The magickal symbolism here varies according to your per-
spective. You can freeze energy with frappes as you initially

45
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
freeze the beverage, break up a type of energy when you beat
it, or lift energy by fluffing the iced pieces.
J	J	J	J	J UICING	UICING	UICING	UICING	UICING
“Tis a little thing to give a cup of water yet its draught of cool
refreshment drained by fevered lips may give a shock
of pleasure to the frame more exquisite than when
nectarean juice penetrates the life of joy in happiest hours”
—Sir Thomas N. Talfourd
Most of us live in a state of perpetual busyness. Any num-
ber of daily duties can leave little time for three square meals a
day. This makes easy, healthful beverages very important to
just maintaining health, let alone spiritual wellness. That is prob-
ably why juicing became a popular “fad” of the 1990s.
Most fruits and vegetables contain considerable levels of
fiber, iron, calcium, potassium, vitamins B and C, beta caro-
tene, and sodium, all of which can be beneficial to most diets.
Some of these beverages help stave off cravings for candy by
supplying our bodies with natural sugars. Thus, juicing can be
an integral part of sound weight loss efforts, with no artificial
colors or flavors to hinder revitalization.
You do not have to buy a special juicer for this product. A
good blender or food processor and straining equipment will
do. The major advantage to juicers is that they are specifically
constructed to make your job a lot easier. If you decide to pur-
chase one, look for good quality, safety, and a clearly stated
warrantee.
In general, juiced products represent health and healing;
however, because you blend them, other types of energy can
certainly be whipped in for good measure! Also, health can re-
late to many things: the healthy nature of a situation, the health
of a relationship, the health of your garden, and so forth. So,
get creative!

46
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
General Juicing Instructions
First, make sure to clean your ingredients under warm wa-
ter. If possible, buy organically grown fruits and vegetables to
eliminate the ingestion of pesticides. Remove all leaves, seeds,
rinds, and bruised parts before putting the components in your
blender/juicer. With the exception of potatoes, fruits and veg-
etables are predominantly juiced raw to obtain the highest con-
tent of nutrients. Then all that remains is pulping the
ingredients thoroughly with your equipment.
If you do not want chunky drinks, use a good sieve and
strain off the juice. To recycle the left over pulp, put it in an
equal portion of hot water and bring to a low rolling boil for
one hour and strain again. This juice will not be as high in
vitamins as the first extraction, but it will use your compo-
nents economically. Be sure to refrigerate any unused por-
tions. The remaining pith can be composted.
An alternative means of recycling pulp is to make fruit
and vegetable wines out of it. In this case, you will be substi-
tuting an equal amount of pulp for whatever fruit or vegetable
your recipe calls for. Note: you may find you wish to add a
little extra pulp since some of the flavor has already been used
up.
The remaining pulp, if any, can be composted.
M	M	M	M	M EAD	EAD	EAD	EAD	EAD
“From the mead horn—the pure and shining liquor, which the
bees provide but do not enjoy, Mead distilled I praise.”
—Book of Taliesin, Mabinogion
There are several types of mead. Melomel is mead that
has fruit or fruit juice in it. Pymet is mead made with grape
juice. Metheglin is made with herbs and hippocras is made

47
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
with both grape juice and spices. The greatest amount of suc-
cess in mead making comes through a little experimentation
with your components, and contentious skimming of honey
sediment, which rises to the top of your pot during boiling.
Also, when possible, try to purchase a good quality, raw honey
and mead yeast or sparkling wine yeast. These improve the
overall body and taste of the finished mead.
Basic Mead Recipe
(See Appendix D for U.S. to metric conversions.)
This recipe will serve as a good foundation for all your
efforts in mead-related drinks. Simply change fruits, fruit juices,
and spices for different and uniquely flavored results.
All proportions given are for one gallon yields.
1 gallon water 	3 pounds dark honey
2 oranges 	1 lemon
1/2 package sparkling yeast
Directions: Place the honey with water in a two-gallon pot over
a medium flame. To this, slice in the oranges and lemon in
large enough pieces to easily remove by slotted spoon later.
Bring the mead to a gentle rolling boil, skimming off any scum
which rises to the top over the next hour. Strain out the fruit
pieces and any spices you may have added, and let this cool to
lukewarm. Meanwhile, suspend the yeast (dissolve it) in 1/4
cup warm water. Stir this into the liquid only after the mead
reaches room temperature or you’ll kill the yeast. Allow this
mixture to sit with a woven cover (like a dish towel) for seven
days until the first fermentation has slowed considerably. Strain
again, trying to pour off only the clearer top fluids into a bottle
to age. These bottles should be lightly corked for about two
months, or fixed with a fermentation lock. Strain again, then
tightly seal them for six months before using.

48
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
M	M	M	M	M EAD	EAD	EAD	EAD	EAD 	– 	N	– 	N	– 	N	– 	N	– 	N ON	ON	ON	ON	ON -	-	-	-	-A	A	A	A	A L	L	L	L	LC	C	C	C	COHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC
“In a large silver urn, pour six cups of kindness, five cups of
tenderness, four cups of affection, three cups of understanding,
two cups of good nature, one whole cup of truth, one half cup
of smiles, one teaspoon of tears...stir well.”
—Count De Mauduit
I made an interesting discovery when I first tried to find
recipes for non-alcoholic mead. Right through the 1920s, mead
was not considered a spirituous beverage! This is probably due
to the fact that mead was made very thick, with more than the
necessary amount of honey, fermented only a short time, then
drawn off and mixed with juice or carbonated water (circa 1919).
The ratio given in a turn-of-the-century cookbook for the
second option was 2 oz. mead (aged about three weeks) to 12 oz.
additive. The original preparation was anywhere from 1/5 to
1/2 honey by proportion to the water base. This would yield a
beverage with a root-beer-like head and only the very slightest
percentage of alcohol.
In the interest of pleasing the purist, I have provided reci-
pes for straight, fruited, or spiced meads without using yeast.
This eliminates the need to wait for the beverage to age. Just
be careful taste-testing during preparation. Because there is
no yeast to eat up your honey, if you make it too sweet, that’s
the way it will stay unless diluted or infused with juice.
Additionally, because there is no alcohol to act as a pre-
servative, I do not suggest making any more mead than you
will consume in a three-week period. Honey, fruits, and flow-
ers have the capacity to carry wild yeast that can slowly acti-
vate and begin fermenting. The other half of this picture is
mead gone bad, mold and all. Keep your finished meads in a
cool storage space in airtight containers for best results.

49
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
Basic Recipe
1 gallon water 	1/2 to 1 pound of honey
1 lemon, juiced 	1 orange, juiced
Directions: Bring your water to a low, rolling boil in a pan that
is not aluminum. Stainless steel or stoneware is recommended.
Slowly add the honey, allowing it to fully mingle with the water.
Taste periodically until a personally pleasant level of sweet-
ness and honey flavor is achieved. Add juices of the fruit at this
point and bring the entire mixture to a full boil. Scum from the
honey will start to rise. It is very important that you skim this
off until it all but disappears from the top of the pot. Doing this
will help your mead to be clearer and less heavy in body. Fi-
nally, cool the mixture completely and place in sterilized bottles
with secure tops for storage.
Please note that your mead can be served hot with a cinna-
mon stick, or cold over crushed ice with a slice of lemon or
orange to refresh the flavor.
S	S	S	S	S OD	OD	OD	OD	ODA	A	A	A	A P	P	P	P	P OP	OP	OP	OP	OP
“Let us have wine and women, mirth and laughter,
sermons and soda-water the day after.”
—Lord Byron
A century ago, malted milk shakes and soda pop were dis-
pensed carefully by the glassful, often by the local pharmacist,
as the latter was sometimes prescribed for health. Also known
as sweet water and fizz water, soda pop is one of the largest
beverage industries in the United States.
To get an idea about the beginnings of fountain beverages,
let’s look to one company. Its originator, Charles Hires, had a
dream to establish mail-order sales of homemade beverage
kits. Mr. Hires carefully selected 18 ingredients, including roots
and herbs, and packaged them with directions for the frugal

50
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
housewife. This package sold for 25 cents and made five gal-
lons of root beer. Slowly, the Hires Root Beer company
formed, and with them a number of other popular favorites
followed.
People today continue to enjoy soda pop, malteds, and
other “fountain” drinks. As of 1982, each person in the United
States consumed approximately 38 gallons of pop per year. In
other words, we annually drink as many soft drinks (and re-
lated beverages) as we do water.
From a magickal perspective, I see soda pop as youthful,
invigorating, uplifting, and happy like its bubbles.
Soda Pop Basics
Older formulas for soda pop call for forced carbonation or
the addition of yeast. Yeast leaves an average alcohol content of
about 1 percent, which is not acceptable if one is allergic to alco-
hol! Thankfully, home-brewed soda pop today can be much sim-
pler. The basic formula is carbonated water, sweetener, and added
flavoring(s). Sweeteners may be adjusted to suit your dietary needs,
including substituting honey or Nutrasweet for sugar.
Make a syrup of your sweetening agent so it mixes well
with room temperature soda water. The proportions are the
same for honey and sugar; two cups sweetener to one cup
water, brought to a low rolling boil then refrigerated. Then,
you can make soda pop by the glass using 1 1/2 cups carbon-
ated water and 1 to 2 tsp. syrup plus your fruit, vegetable, or
flower essences and extracts. Choose flavorings made by juic-
ing (see the previous section), or those readily available in the
supermarket’s cooking aisle.
If you don’t like the taste of plain soda water, try ginger
ale instead. This makes a zestier drink. Additionally, please
take care to add your sweetener slowly. Sugars activate the
carbonation even further to the point where your glass may
froth over.

51
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
W	W	W	W	WINE	INE	INE	INE	INE
“Here with a loaf of bread, beneath the bough,
a flask of wine, a book of verse
and thou beside me singing in the wilderness”
—Omar Khayyam
Wine in general is considered the beverage of the gods. It
is a type of ambrosia, being used in magick and in religion for
everything from offerings and libations to oath taking and
oracles. Thus, of all the brewing projects in this book, wine is
my favorite to make when time allows. It is a simple pleasure,
but a divine one.
As with meads, the procedure for wine is fairly simple. First
and foremost, use quality ingredients. Once you refine your
talents, it stands to reason that better quality components yield
more pleasant wines. At first, using less costly constituents is
sensible. Once you get past that point, allow your budget to
stretch a bit and you won’t be disappointed by the results.
Secondly, take extra care when straining wines. The more
sediments you eliminate, the easier it becomes to clarify your
beverages. When trying to separate clearer wine from its sedi-
ment after the first fermentation, either siphon it off or pour
very carefully so the fruit and dead yeast does not enter the
new container. This is also a good time to check flavor and add
more sugar for sweeter wines.
One of the reasons I love making tea wines is the fact that
they rarely need a lot of siphoning (to my thinking—the less
fuss the better). By cleverly buying fruity or spicy tea bags, and
mixing and matching them, you can come up with wines that
have a very full flavor and no sediment to strain out! There
are some good examples of tea wines sprinkled throughout
this book.
Next is care with corking. If you tighten your tops or corks
too soon and leave the bottles unattended, they will explode

52
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
from early fermentation pressure buildup. That is why I rec-
ommended the use of a balloon secured with a rubber band,
fermentation locks, or daily “burping” at the outset of this
chapter. Because you cannot always control the temperature
at which your wines will be fermenting, don’t forget this step
or you may have a mess on your hands.
The final process is called racking, which is somewhat con-
nected to straining. After the second fermentation, the wine
rests in its final container. Lay these so they tilt slightly down-
ward, keeping the corks damp. Initially every month a certain
amount of sediment will appear in the bottle. Pour off the clear
wine, rinse the containers and rebottle on a regular basis.
As you rack, keep one spare bottle of each batch of wine to
refill any air spaces left after siphoning and rebottling. As you
follow this procedure, the need to rack the wine decreases and
your wine will clarify to look closer to store-bought blends.
Basic Wine
Because the procedure for wine making is pretty standard,
instead of including a lot of repetitious directions in this book,
this recipe will serve as a foundation for all those that follow.
Any variations on this, distinct to a particular recipe, will be
noted. All proportions are for one-gallon yields. Recipes may
be halved or doubled.
1-2 pounds fruit 	spices to taste
1 12 oz. can frozen juice 	2-3 pounds sugar
1 gallon water 	slice of lemon or orange
1 tea bag 	1/3 pkg. wine yeast
Directions: If using spices, place these first in your water and
simmer for 30 minutes until a tea-like substance is formed.
For spicier drinks, leave the herbs in the water while you add
fruit, juice, tea bags, lemon/orange, and sugar. Bring every-
thing to a low rolling boil for 15 minutes, then reduce heat for
another 15 minutes. Cool to lukewarm. Meanwhile in a small
separate container dissolve the wine yeast in 1/4 cup warm

53
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
(not hot) water. Let this sit for a minimum of 20 minutes to
work before stirring it into the cooled juices.
Leave the entire blend in your pan (preferably not alumi-
num) over night with a heavy cloth or dish towel over top. In
the morning, strain the fruit (and herbs if they were left in)
out of the juices and let sit covered in a warm area for an-
other 24 hours. Strain again and move to a loosely covered
glass container for one month. As fermentation slows, activity
in the container will decrease (less bubbles) and you can move
the beverage into smaller bottles for racking. Strain or siphon
the wine into your chosen containers to further clarify it, cork-
ing loosely for another two to three weeks. If the corks pop out
frequently, you know it is too soon for final capping.
All wines should be stored in a dark cool place. Depending
on how dry you like your beverages, eight months to three years
aging time produces tasty wines. You will have to experiment
to find exactly when you are content with the flavor. At this
point, in order to stop fermentation, you may either refrigerate
your wine, or bring it to a low rolling boil, then bottle again in
air tight containers. I usually age wine for about eight months,
which yields a sweeter, but not too heavy-bodied beverage.
Hint: At first, match your ingredients by flavor such as apples,
apple juice, and apple tea. Apples and grapes are two excellent
fruits to start with, almost always yielding positive results. Later,
once you feel more certain of the procedure, try mixing and
matching your fruits and juices.
W	W	W	W	W INE	INE	INE	INE	INE 	– F	– F	– F	– F	– F L	L	L	L	LOWER	OWER	OWER	OWER	OWER AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	V	V	V	V	V E	E	E	E	EGE	GE	GE	GE	GET	T	T	T	TABLE	ABLE	ABLE	ABLE	ABLE
China and Japan were probably the first lands to discover
the wonders of brewing with flowers. This was partially due to
the obsession Asian peoples had with cooking as an art. What
better to grace any lovely dish or sweet cup than the crowning
glory of the natural world: flowers.

54
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
In China, flower petals scented some of the most exquis-
ite and highly desired teas. In Japan, the chrysanthemum was
the flower of choice, with a special celebration in its honor.
On the 9th day of the 9th moon (early September), a wine
steeped with chrysanthemum petals was given to the emperor
to insure long life and encourage poetic muse. In feudal times,
the Shogun met with all his samurai on this day. Presently, the
tradition continues with competitive flower shows.
Later, during the Middle Ages, petaled beverages (and
foods) found their way to Europe with a flurry. Flower and veg-
etable wines and liquors established a place on the table along-
side the more traditional fruit preparations. They were so
admired as to become a welcome addition to royal gatherings.
In preparing your own fruit and vegetable wines, two factors
rise above all others as crucial for success. The first is freshness.
Flowers can be bought dried, but are more effective when freshly
harvested. When gathering petals (only petals—no green parts)
do so just after the dew evaporates, no later than 10:30 a.m.
This helps the petal retain its essential oil. Handle them care-
fully, storing in a muslin or nylon mesh bag, and use them as
soon as possible. Once wilted, their taste is far less enjoyable.
For vegetables, again dried components can be substituted.
Even so, nothing beats freshly grown for fullness of flavor. Fresh
vegetables have the additional benefit of much higher vitamin
contents. Their juices may be easily extracted into the brewing
pot.
The second consideration is temperature. Flowers are es-
pecially sensitive to heat. When starting a batch of brew with
flower petals, you will not be boiling as with many other prepa-
rations. Instead, use lower temperatures until petals turn trans-
lucent to extract the oils, then strain the liquid to prepare it for
the rest of the process. Slower cooking with vegetables yields
more pleasant results as well.

55
H E L P F U L 	H I N T S
W	W	W	W	W INE	INE	INE	INE	INE 	– N	– N	– N	– N	– N ON	ON	ON	ON	ON -	-	-	-	-A	A	A	A	A L	L	L	L	LC	C	C	C	COHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC	OHOLIC
Wines, like beer, cannot be properly prepared at home
without some amount of fermentation. Because wine, by defi-
nition, is fermented fruit juice, somehow the effect in taste
just wouldn’t be the same. Because of this, I have employed a
similar method in preparing wines as those which are used for
homemade soda pop. As with the beers, you can eliminate any
alcohol content by boiling, then rejuvenate the bubbles with
carbonated water. Additionally, one part soda to one part soft
wine makes an effective non-alcoholic wine cooler where the
bubbles help carry your magick to the surface!
Basic Recipe (for six 12 oz. bottles)
1 Tbsp. extract or flavoring 	3/4 cups sugar
72 oz. juice 	1/16 tsp. yeast
Basic Directions: Heat your juice(s) in a large kettle until it is
lukewarm. Dissolve the sugar, feeling free to add more if you
want a sweeter wine. Likewise, dissolve the yeast and add any
flavorings desired during this process. It is a good idea to test
the beverage at this point for full-bodied flavor, adding more
extract if needed.
Next, move the wine into clean glass bottles that can be
either capped (like pop), corked, or sealed with a secure screw
top. Keep the bottles in a warm (not hot) area for about four
days. Open one carefully to see if it is bubbly enough for your
tastes. If not, allow to sit about two days more. Store these in
the refrigerator to inhibit further fermentation (and possible
explosion of the bottles due to pressure).

P	P	P	P	Par	ar	ar	ar	art 2	t 2	t 2	t 2	t 2
T	T	T	T	T h e	h e	h e	h e	h e 	R	R	R	R	R e c i p e s	e c i p e s	e c i p e s	e c i p e s	e c i p e s
“The thirsty earth soaks up the rain
and drinks, and gapes for drink again
and plants suck in the earth and air
with constant drinking lush and fair.
Fill all the glasses then, for why
should every creature drink, but I?”
—Abraham Cowley

59
T h e 	R e c i p e s
IIIII NTR	NTR	NTR	NTR	NTRODUC	ODUC	ODUC	ODUC	ODUCTION	TION	TION	TION	TION
“When the wine goes in, strange things come out.”
—Johann Christoph Friedrich Von Schiller
Now comes the fun part—getting your hands into the pro-
verbial cauldron! Even though you’re going to be working
magick into your brews, that doesn’t mean your rational mind
has to go by the wayside. For example, don’t follow a recipe
whose ingredients you don’t like. Potions meant for consump-
tion won’t do much good if you’re more focused on the yucky
taste than on the energy in the beverage!
Speaking of which, some people might feel a little squea-
mish about the recipes that use flowers herein. This is the one
time when I will suggest you experiment a little. I was amazed at
the wonderful teas and wines roses produce, and these have now
become among my favorite brewing ingredients. You might find
yourself pleasantly surprised by this, or many other petals, too!
Another good precaution is a simple one: Don’t make any-
thing to which you might have an allergic reaction, and don’t
share homemade beverages with others without telling them
the ingredients if you think allergies might be a problem. After
all, we want our magick to have only the best possible effects.
Besides, there’s nothing that says you can’t adjust recipes so
long as the meaningfulness remains intact. In fact, tinkering
with recipes seems to be a time-honored tradition among cooks
that kitchen witches joyfully continue.
M	M	M	M	M UND	UND	UND	UND	UNDANE	ANE	ANE	ANE	ANE C	C	C	C	C ONSIDERA	ONSIDERA	ONSIDERA	ONSIDERA	ONSIDERATIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS
My personal belief is that practicality consists of common
sense, mingled with frugality, humor, creative insight, and a little
fortitude for good measure. Thus, this section about rather
mundane considerations acts as a foundation to any type of

60
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
beverage-making effort. While some instructions are going to
be unique to specific recipes, these sensible suggestions are
universal.
First, collect glass bottles in various shapes, sizes, and col-
ors into which you can put your magickal beverages. Make
sure to sterilize them for safety reasons. Also collect corks or
suitable airtight tops for those bottles. If you’re planning to
make homemade wine or beer, you also want to have some
balloons that act as temporary corks. The balloons stay in
place until fermentation decreases enough to put a secure top
on the bottle without it constantly popping off.
When you first start making beverages, I usually suggest
getting really good at one category of brew first, then going on
to others. Pick a category that you like and become an expert.
Everything you learn in the process will make other brewing
efforts much easier and more successful. Specifically, you’ll
begin to know nature’s chemistry—the idiosyncrasies in vari-
ous fruits and spices that can make or break the results of your
efforts. For example, knowing that strawberries ferment very
quickly will help you avoid messy, sticky bottle explosions.
Additionally, your first beverage efforts should be done with
simple, cost-effective ingredients. This way if you don’t get it
right, you haven’t spent a fortune. And don’t be overly critical
with yourself if you have a flop or two. It’s quite common, espe-
cially in mead, wine, and beer brewing. Practice does make per-
fect, and you always learn something new from the failures.
For example, a friend of mine couldn’t figure out why his wine
recipe didn’t ferment. I found out that he had altered the recipe
and decreased the sugar. Consequently, the yeast didn’t have
enough to eat and the wine never “took.” We were actually
able to remedy this by warming the whole mixture, adding more
sugar, and then bringing in some fresh yeast.
The lesson here is simple: Be careful how you tweak your
recipes. If you don’t like using teas, for example, some spices like
gingerroot can provide tannin, which is necessary to brewing

61
T h e 	R e c i p e s
certain kinds of wines and meads. Cross-referencing sources
can prove very helpful too—after all, as a brewer I write about
things I enjoy drinking, not necessarily everything that you will
like! In your search for books, watch local secondhand shops
that often carry old collections of recipes for very reasonable
prices.
Another important thing to do for yourself is date your bev-
erages. Some wines and meads safely age for years, while other
drinks are designed for almost immediate use. Dating your
bottles will help you avoid getting a mouthful of vinegar, or
something equally unpleasant. And while you’re labeling, put
on the ingredients, the magickal methods (if you wish), and so
on. This way you have all the information you need in one spot.
Finally, as you’re using or adapting these recipes, please
bear in mind that not all herbs used in magick are safe for
consumption. If a recipe has an ingredient you have not tried
before, or if you’re thinking of adding an herb but don’t know
if it’s edible, don’t use it! Let common sense prevail.
U	U	U	U	U SING	SING	SING	SING	SING T	T	T	T	T HIS	HIS	HIS	HIS	HIS B	B	B	B	B OOK	OOK	OOK	OOK	OOK
Some people reading this book may have never tried to
make their own wines, teas, beers, or soda pop. In the interest
of not repeating basic recipes, there will be a reference to the
step-by-step instructions to making more difficult blends, which
were detailed in Chapter 3. As you come across preparations
that you’re unfamiliar with, go to Chapter 3 and read over the
instructions to get started. I’ve tried to keep them as simple
and time-effective as possible. (See Appendix D for U.S. to
metric conversions.)
Because this is a book of magick, I’ve chosen to set up the
rest of the book topically so you can look at a variety of poten-
tial recipes to meet whatever need you have. This will allow
you to choose something you find meaningful and pleasing to

62
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
your taste buds. And to help you personalize the recipes, lists
of potential alternative ingredients are included in the begin-
ning of each section.
Finally, in Appendix C of this book I’ve included a list of
some beverages that were sacred to various gods and goddesses.
This list is designed for those of you who may be thinking about
making a beverage libation, or one suited to an offering on your
altar. This way you can design the beverage to please the Di-
vine, and hopefully your palate too!
Cheers!
A	A	A	A	A BUND	BUND	BUND	BUND	BUNDANCE	ANCE	ANCE	ANCE	ANCE AND	AND	AND	AND	AND P	P	P	P	P R	R	R	R	RO	O	O	O	OSPERITY	SPERITY	SPERITY	SPERITY	SPERITY
“To rejoice in the prosperity of another is to partake in it.”
—W. Austin
Who of us couldn’t use a little extra abundance in our lives?
Mind you, this abundance can come in many forms, from a
profuse garden to increased financial flow. It can also mean
abundant joy, abundant health, an abundance of good friends,
and other wonderful things that we treasure. So, in making this
type of beverage, it’s important to focus on exactly what type of
plenty you’re seeking and then adjust the recipes accordingly.
For example, you might add more green-colored items to
a brew for financial prosperity because the western world as-
sociates that color with our paper money. Besides drinking
this beverage, you could dab a bit on your wallet like a charm
to attract more cash, and to keep what you have close by! On
the other hand, a brew for a flourishing garden might be bet-
ter made with the soil in mind, and poured out to the land
where it can do the most good!
Here’s a list of ingredients commonly associated with this
type of energy to refer to for adapting or tweaking your reci-
pes to suit personal tastes and needs:

63
T h e 	R e c i p e s
alfalfa sprouts 	ginger 	kiwi
almond flavoring 	berries 	orange juice
banana 	grapes 	basil
mint 	dill 	grains
nutty flavoring 	tea 	tomato juice
lavender 	rhubarb 	cranberry
green beverages 	apple
You may also wish to consider making these brews during a
waxing moon and stirring them clockwise so abundance grows.
Bountiful Beer
2 handfuls dandelion leaves 	4 stalks rhubarb
and roots, freshly picked 	1 gal. water
2 lbs. cane sugar 	1 tsp. ground gingerroot
1/2 oz. beer yeast
Directions: All the ingredients for this, except the yeast should
be placed in a large pan and boiled for one hour. When this is
finished, allow to cool to lukewarm, adding the yeast, which
has been suspended in warm water. Bottle after 24 hours, sealed
tightly. Drink in three to 40 days without spoilage.
Magickal Associations: Nature’s abundance, providence, the
harvest.
History/Lore: A favorite farmers beer, prepared from items
readily given from a bountiful land. Sometimes nettles, a veg-
etable that tastes like spinach and is similarly high in iron,
were also added for nutritional value.
Berry Orange Harvest
1 lb. cranberries, ground 	2 whole seedless oranges, ground
3 1/2 cups sugar 	2 cups rum
Directions: Place all your ingredients, including any juice from
the grinding process, into a two-quart jar with a secure lid.
Keep in a cool area, shaking thoroughly once a day for the
next six weeks. Strain into bottles and seal for use over the
holidays.

64
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: The harvest, thankfulness, prosperity.
History/Lore: This beverage is excellent to make with leftovers
from the Thanksgiving table, which are already blessed with
the energies of gratitude for Divine providence.
Alternatives: Reduce orange by one, adding two peeled ground
apples in its place. Magickally this encourages improved wis-
dom with one’s resources so you have what you need when
you need it.
Or you can just enjoy some cranberry-orange juice as a non-
alcoholic substitute.
Prosperity Persuasion
1 1/2 cups diced broccoli 	6 stalks celery
6 large brussels sprouts 	6 scallions
1 sprig parsley 	1 ltr. water
1 cup chopped asparagus 	1 ltr. vodka
salt and pepper to taste
Directions: Finely chop all your ingredients, placing them in a
large pan with water over a medium flame. Allow the vegetables
to simmer for about two and a half to three hours until almost
mushy in texture. Strain this through a sieve, pressing the veg-
etable remnants with a wooden spoon to extract juices. Keep
the vegetable pieces for a soup base and return the liquid to
the pan, mixing in the vodka. Taste the mixture to see if any
spices or sugar are necessary for personal enjoyment. Bottle
and age one to two months before using.
Magickal Associations: Abundance, good fortune, success.
History/Lore: The color of this beverage turns out to be a lus-
cious green to help encourage growth or improve finances.
Serve with a stick of fresh celery.
Alternative: Eliminate the vodka, increase the water by one
liter, and simply chill this like you would any vegetable blend.

65
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Harvest Horn
2 cups white grape juice 	1 cup berries (any)
2 cups apple juice 	2 cups ginger ale
1 bottle mixed fruit wine 	grape bunches
1 orange, sliced
Directions: Mix the juices with the wine, adding sliced orange
and berries. Allow this to sit at room temperature for 30 min-
utes, then chill. Add ginger ale when pouring into a punch
bowl. Garnish sides of the bowl with grape bunches.
Magickal Associations: Abundance, providence, gathering natu-
ral bounty, gratefulness.
History/Lore: The horn of plenty appears in various forms in a
diversity of folklore as an object that pours divine goodness
unceasingly—usually in the form of foods or blessings.
Serving idea: If you have some readily available, the magick of
this beverage is accentuated by serving it in a drinking horn
instead of a glass. You can substitute non-alcoholic wine with-
out loosing any symbolic value.
Money Punch
2 cups dark rum 	2 medium cinnamon sticks
1 cup Kahlua 	4 whole cloves
2 tsp. sugar 	3/4 tsp. nutmeg
1 orange, sliced 	1 whole almond per person
1 1/2 qts. orange coffee
Directions: Place rum, Kahlua, and sugar together in a large
heat-proof serving bowl. Light the liquid, using the coffee to
extinguish it slowly. This allows the entire mixture to reach
your guests warm. Add spices, float orange slices on top, and
allow mixture to sit until it reaches a comfortable sipping tem-
perature. Serve in cups garnished with one almond each.
Magickal Associations: Wealth, abundance, resources.

66
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
History/Lore: All the spices, nuts, and fruits in this recipe have
been chosen for their money-attracting attributes. Oranges
were a symbol of prosperity in the Middle Ages due to their
high import cost.
Green Abundance
1 cup diced broccoli 	2 stalks celery
4 brussels sprouts 	3 scallions
1 sprig parsley 	1 cup asparagus
1 cup tomato juice 	1 cup alfalfa sprouts
(or 2 whole tomatoes) 	salt and pepper to taste
Directions: Follow basic recipe in Chapter 2 for juicing.
Magickal Associations: Abundance, good fortune, success.
History/Lore: Asparagus was thought to be one of Julius Caesar’s
favorite foods, contributing to his strength, and celery was used
in Rome to prevent hangovers. In this case, the color of this
beverage is a rich green to help encourage growth or improved
finances. Visualize your needs while you drink!
Cacao Cash
2 oz. sweet baker’s chocolate 	1 oz. unsweetened chocolate
2 Tbsp. milk 	1/2 stick cinnamon
1 Tbsp. sugar 	1/2 tsp. vanilla
1 beaten egg 	nutmeg and heavy cream
(garnish)
Directions: Slowly melt the chocolate with milk and cinnamon
over a double boiler. Stir in the sugar and vanilla until sugar is
fully dissolved. Turn off the heat and fold in the beaten (to
frothy) egg and serve with a bit of cream and cinnamon float-
ing on top.
Magickal Associations: Improving finances, abundance, getting
your money’s worth.
History/Lore: In Mexico, the beans of the cacao tree were used
as currency, and only the rich could afford to drink beverages
made from them, quite literally drinking wealth! Apparently

67
T h e 	R e c i p e s
this idea was not unique to Mexico as it has similar versions in
ancient Mesopotamia, and even among the Aztecs.
Alternatives: Try orange chocolate in place of the baker’s for
similar magickal effects, or mint chocolate to help heal a finan-
cially stressful situation.
Cafe L’Orange
6 cups strong orange coffee 	6 slices fresh orange, peeled
6 cups hot chocolate 	1 cup heavy cream
1 tsp. vanilla extract 	orange peel
cinnamon
Directions: In each cup place one orange slice, pouring over
equal quantities of hot cocoa and freshly brewed coffee. Mingle
vanilla extract with heavy cream. Then, top cocoa/coffee mix-
ture with cream, grated orange peel, and cinnamon.
Magickal Associations: Prosperity, abundance, accomplishment.
History/Lore: In the Middle Ages, oranges were a very rare and
costly commodity to most European homes, and as such were
used frugally or to show off ones wealth. Magickally speaking,
this precious association slowly attached itself with the fruit even
after it was readily available.
Alternative: This beverage is often enjoyed in Belgium, but some-
times cinnamon takes place of hot cocoa with a dash of orange
extract.
B	B	B	B	B ALANCE	ALANCE	ALANCE	ALANCE	ALANCE
“... according to the symmetry of their [atoms] shapes and
sizes and positions and order, and they remain together thus
the coming into being of complex things is affected.”
—Simplicius, De Caelo
Learning to balance our day-to-day life with spirituality is
one of the most important steps to magickal mastery. Even as
atoms balance themselves into a harmony to make something

68
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
greater, that is what our magickal energy does. And in times
that are terribly hectic, we also need to learn symmetry between
work, home, play, and other activities that are necessary to a
healthy, happy outlook. Consequently, in making these bever-
ages, try to keep everything even—each herb should be mea-
sured the same, each juice poured out in the same amount.
Remember that symbolism here is just as important as your
ingredients. Maybe even look for a yin/yang styled cup from
which to drink!
It is difficult to provide an ingredient list for these beverages
because much depends on your area of need. However, gener-
ally speaking the herb cumin and the color purple (perhaps grape
juice) help with this type of effort, as do the stones onyx and
fluorite, which may be used to create a crystal tincture. Gar-
nish your cup with an oak leaf for a little more symmetry.
In terms of timing, you may wish to consider making these
brews at noon or midnight, dusk or dawn, the traditional in-
between times that hover on the edge of beginnings and end-
ings. In choosing the exact time, consider what it is you’re
trying to balance out. For example, if you need to strengthen
your conscious mind so that your emotions don’t overwhelm
sound thinking, noon would be a good choice because sun-
light accents that part of our nature.
Symmetry’s Simmering
2 pints water 	4 oz. sugar
6 oranges, juiced 	2 pints rum
1 tsp. whole cloves 	2 whole cinnamon sticks
1 tsp. whole allspice berries
Directions: Mix the juice of oranges with the two pints water in
a quart-sized pan. Warm over low flame with spices and sugar
until a tea-like consistency is reached. Add rum and serve with
pieces of cinnamon stick. Makes one quart.
Magickal Associations: Balance, fruitfulness, symmetry, and
abundance.

69
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: The orange tree is unique in that it bears its
leaves, flowers, and fruits all at the same time, making it an
excellent symbol of bounty and the triune nature of both gods
and humankind.
Alternatives: For a purifying beverage, substitute the juice of
four lemons for the oranges.
Temperance Tonic
1 pint peppermint schnapps 	1 tsp. chamomile
3 bay leaves 	4 dandelion heads
1/2 cup crushed blackberries 	1/2 tsp. golden seal
1/2 tsp. catnip leaves 	1/4 tsp. sage
1/2 tsp. tansy 	1/2 tsp. yarrow
1 cup honey
Directions: Warm the schnapps over a low flame with honey
and blackberries until they are fully mixed in. Meanwhile, wrap
your herbs in a double thickness of gauze or cheesecloth. This
bundle will be suspended in the schnapps, once cooled to luke-
warm, for three months (sealed tightly). Strain before using.
For a lighter beverage, mix with equal amounts of water and
serve hot.
Magickal Associations: Moderation, self-control, and regulation.
History/Lore: Most all-purpose tonics are regarded as anything
that can improve energy, physical strength, or provide nour-
ishment in order to bring balance back to the body. This recipe
combines the traditional tonic herbs into a syrup-like compo-
sition to take in teaspoonfuls either in the morning or at night.
Yin/Yang Zinger
6 lemons, peeled 	6 limes, peeled
1 lb. sugar (or honey) 	2 qts. water
Directions: Save the peels of three lemons and limes, from which
the white pith has been removed. Place the peels in a large
pot, covered with one qt. boiling water, and allow to sit and
infuse like a tea. Meanwhile, express the juice of all six lemons

70
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
and limes, adding the remainder of the water, sugar, and the
juice from the peels. Taste to see if additional sweetening is
required, then serve over ice.
Magickal Associations: Equilibrium. Also useful in cleansing
and protection.
History/Lore: Lemon and lime are perfect balance points to each
other in color, flavor, and energy. Lemon juice is often used to
help purge magickal tools of unwanted energies, and lime is
considered an effective protection against negative magick.
Heart-Head Symmetry
1 small bundle of lilac petals 	1 white rose (no leafs or green
2 tsp. lavender 	parts)
1 tsp. chopped violet petals 	2 tsp. pennyroyal
1 1/2 cups carbonated water 	sweetener to taste
Directions: For this recipe, it will be necessary to infuse your
floral essence before adding it to the carbonated water. For
this, simply add the flower petals, once cleaned, to a cup of
warm (not boiling) water and allow to simmer until their col-
oration is all but gone. Cool this mixture and add enough so
that your soda has the lovely bouquet of fresh blossoms.
Magickal Associations: Harmony, accord, balanced relationships,
and communication, especially among families or groups.
History/Lore: All the flowers chosen for this recipe are strongly
associated with the energy of agreement and compatibility.
B	B	B	B	B A N I S H M E N T	A N I S H M E N T	A N I S H M E N T	A N I S H M E N T	A N I S H M E N T
“Away from me, all negativity; forever to stay... away! away!”
—Loresinger, Incantation
Banishment is a very ancient art based on the idea that
magick is to turn and change, and what better thing to be turn-
ing away from ourselves than negative energy? With that in
mind, in making your banishing brews you need to be asking

71
T h e 	R e c i p e s
yourself whether the source of the difficulty is internal or ex-
ternal. Do you need to change something of yourself, or some-
thing that’s coming from outside and disrupting the harmony
of your life? Upon answering that question, you can drink
your potion for internal transformation, or pour it out to wash
away negativity.
Here are some of the ingredients associated with banishing:
basil 	clove 	cumin
garlic 	leek 	lilac
mint 	onion 	peach
pepper 	rosemary 	sloe berries
wintergreen 	anise 	sage
woodruff 	apple 	cinnamon
Unlike many of the beverages discussed herein, these types
of brews are best made during a waning moon and stirred coun-
terclockwise because your goal is that of decreasing. If you
happen to work during an eclipse, all the better—in this in-
stance the moon figuratively disappears, making a strong sym-
bol upon which to direct your focus. Most people consider
the color of banishing to be black, so for internal work you
may wish to use a black-colored drinking vessel.
Negativity Nemesis
1 qt. warm apple wine 	1/2 	cup 	woodruff 	flowers
freshly
2 oz. sugar 	picked
1/4 pint water 	slice of orange per glass
stick cinnamon
Directions: Allow the woodruff to set in the warm wine for a
half hour, then remove. To this add sugar and water. This
serves about six people and may be prepared warm or cold.
Garnish with orange slices and cinnamon.
Magickal Associations: Victory, protection, banish negativity.
History/Lore: In Germany, woodruff is called “the master of
the woods,” with a rich smell similar to that of cinnamon. Its

72
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
white flowers are sacred to the Goddess and it has often been
used in magick to protect against impishness.
Alternative: Substitute apple juice or cider for the wine.
Run Away Red!
3 1/2 lbs. currants (red) 	3 lbs. sugar
1 raspberry tea bag 	1/4 lb. raisins
1/4 orange sliced 	1/3 pkg. (1/4 oz.) yeast
1 gal. water
Directions: Place your cleaned currants in a large bucket with
orange slices. Heat one half of the water to boiling and pour it
over the berries. While hot, crush the fruit, then leave the
mixture to set covered for two days. Strain thoroughly. Move
the currant juice to the stove adding remaining water and sugar.
Bring to a simmer stirring constantly until the sugar is dissolved.
Follow as with basic recipe, allowing four days of open air fer-
mentation. When you strain this mixture again for bottling, place
three raisins in the bottom of each vessel, then age.
Magickal Associations: Turning away unwanted spirits or devas.
History/Lore: This wine turns a beautiful bright red color, of
which certain mischievous spirits and fairy folk are said to be
afraid.
Banishing Winter Blues
1 handful each pansy 	4 cups water, warm
and borage flowers 	juice of one lemon
sugar to taste
Directions: Leave the pansy and borage flowers in warm water
for 12 hours to infuse. Strain, adding lemon juice and sweet-
ener. Garnish with a slice of lemon or fresh, cheerful petals.
History/Lore: Borage has often been thought to sooth the melan-
choly that can come after long, arduous winters. Pansy is known
by the alternative folk name “hearts ease” and is likewise felt
beneficial to restore ones wits. The additional benefit is that this
beverage is full of healthful minerals, including calcium.

73
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Solar-Powered Papaya
1 cup papaya juice 	1 cup milk
1 tsp. sugar 	1 egg white, beaten
4 crushed strawberries 	2 Tbsp. honey
Directions: Blend together the papaya juice with milk and sugar.
Meanwhile, beat the egg white until frothy. Scoop one heaping
tablespoonful on top of the glass. Mash together the strawber-
ries and honey and drizzle in the middle of the egg. Serve chilled.
History/Lore: The visual effect of this drink is not unlike a sun
in splendor with yellow rays beneath,and bright red in the cen-
ter ready to chase away any lingering shadows in your life. In
the West Indies, papaya is known as the medicine tree and is
rich in vitamin A.
Alternative: Add a dash of cinnamon to increase its potency.
Anti-Magick Brew
4 to 5 figs 	1/2 cup raisins
1 cup pearl barley 	peel of 1/2 orange
3 cups water 	1 slice lemon
Directions: Cook the barley in three cups of water. Strain the
resulting liquid onto fruits. Return fruits to the stove, cooking
until tender. Squeeze the lemon slice over top of the whole
mixture, cool, and strain. Drink only the liquid, preserving
the cooked fruit for pie or tarts.
Magickal Associations: Turning undesirable magickal energy
away from you.
History/Lore: Barley’s earthy quality helps ground out energy,
while lemon cleanses.
Spirit Be Gone Brew
1 tsp. raspberry leaf 	1 tsp. black currant leaf
1 tsp. lemon balm 	1 tsp. valarian
1 tsp. chamomile 	4 cups boiling water
Directions: This beverage is prepared like a normal tea.

74
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Protection from spirits, purification,
quiet restfulness.
History/Lore: The ingredients in this recipe are purported to
drive away unwanted ghostly guests. For this purpose, use the
tea as an asperging beverage as well as one to consume.
Garlic Protection
1 qt. water 	15 cloves garlic
2 bay leaves 	2 sprigs fresh sage
1/2 tsp. thyme 	1/2 tsp. rosemary
salt and pepper 	2 egg yolks
1/3 cup parmesan and 	1/4 cup olive oil
romano cheese
Directions: Boil water with herbs for 45 minutes, strain. Retain
the garlic and press into broth. Meanwhile beat eggs, cheese,
and oil slowly together. To the egg mixture, add one cup of
broth and beat again. Mix this thoroughly into garlic bouillon
base over low heat until thick. Serve with bread crumbs or crou-
tons on top.
Magickal Associations: Banishing, protection from malevolent
influences.
History/Lore: Deemed a kind of cure-all, a recipe similar to this
is a favorite part of the French Yule celebrations. This bever-
age has a purgative quality, especially against negative energies.
Violet Safety
2 cups boiling water 	1 tsp. dried violets
1 Tbsp. aniseed 	1 cup cream
1 tsp. strong, loose black tea 	sugar
crushed ice
Directions: Bundle the aniseed, tea, and dried violets together
in a tea ball or gauze bag to steep in the hot water for about
20 minutes or until the water smells heady. Stir in sugar to dis-
solve, then chill. When cold, add one cup of cream and serve
over crushed ice.

75
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Aspects: Safety, protection from negative magick or
malignant spirits, peaceful sleep.
History/Lore: In the time of Virgil, anise was considered a po-
tent means for turning the “evil eye,” as well as an effective
deterrent to nightmares. Violets were similarly used by the an-
cient Greeks to bring peaceful sleep and safety from spirits.
Alternatives: Add one teaspoon of chamomile or valerian root
if you are making this specifically for sleep. Both herbs have a
relaxing effect on nerves. Please note that this beverage can be
served hot simply by adding the cream while the tea is still warm
and eliminating the ice. If dried violets are not available, try a
stick of cinnamon or one teaspoon fennel for similar magickal
results.
B	B	B	B	B EAUTY	EAUTY	EAUTY	EAUTY	EAUTY AND	AND	AND	AND	AND G	G	G	G	G LAMOUR	LAMOUR	LAMOUR	LAMOUR	LAMOURY	Y	Y	Y	Y
“The fountain of beauty is the heart.”
—Francis Quarles
Like it or not, we live in a world strongly swayed by exter-
nal appearances and first impressions. Thankfully witches had
an old ally in learning to shift our auric energies to exude an
air of confidence and attractiveness: the fairy folk. According
to legend, it was they who taught the art of glamoury (of astral
illusion) to us.
The modern art of glamoury, however, is not what most
people think it to be. What you are doing is creating an atmo-
sphere around yourself versus creating a whole different ap-
pearance. Unlike the movies, your hair color won’t change, and
makeup won’t suddenly appear. Instead, the way people feel
around you and how they interpret that feeling changes to mir-
ror the energy you’ve put into your aura through the brew.
Here are some of the edible ingredients commonly associ-
ated with beauty. For a crystal tincture, amber is recommended.

76
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
avocado 	lovage 	egg
ginseng 	oats 	primrose
heather 	lavender 	beet juice
nut milks 	cream
On a personal note, I like creating these when the moon is
full, or when candles are gleaming, because both sources of
light do wonders for most people’s skin. Additionally, I like to
use soda pop as a base for some of these creations because it
sparkles, just as we want our auras to gleam with magick.
Bear in mind, however, that magickal glamoury is a tempo-
rary coping mechanism. It definitely stresses the positive, but
shouldn’t be employed with those you care deeply about, or
when you’re in your own space. Those are times to be wholly
yourself, without flash and fanfare.
Courage Cordial
1 ltr. vodka 	1 cup maple syrup
2 cups pecans, ground 	2 cups almonds, ground
Directions: Warm the vodka slightly with maple syrup so that
the syrup mixes completely with it. Meanwhile, place the nuts
in a wide-mouth container (with lid). Pour the warm vodka
mixture over top and seal tightly. Leave in a dark, breezy place
and shake daily for eight weeks, then strain and enjoy.
Magickal Associations: Personal changes, reversing cycles, modi-
fying habits, seeing yourself in a positive light.
History/Lore: The number eight (months) is the number of
change. Additionally, the ingredients here are all aligned with
the Air element to encourage the winds to bring a refreshing
metamorphosis in your outlooks and demeanor, projecting a
more comely air.
Alternatives: Replace vodka with one liter of water and increase
syrup to three cups, adding wine yeast as directed in the wine
chapter. This produces a lovely golden beverage with lower
alcohol content.

77
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Creamy Beauty
2 beaten eggs 	2 qts. milk
1 lemon, peeled 	1 qt. cream
4 cups brandy 	1 cup sugar
Directions: Place beaten eggs and milk in a sauce pan and stir.
Carefully remove as much white pith from the lemon peel as
possible, then shred and place with milk mixture. Slowly warm,
adding sugar, until the liquid almost boils, then remove from
heat, immediately removing lemon. Slowly add brandy and
cream, beating the whole with a wire whisk until frothy. Serve
in a punch bowl with whipped cream, if desired.
Magickal Associations: Glamoury, lunar/goddess energy, and
attractiveness.
History/Lore: The Gaelic word for milk translates to mean
heart, and in this case we are taking to heart the idea of beauty
starting within. Additionally, the phrase “creamy white skin”
has often been associated with beauty. We are simply apply-
ing the symbolic value differently by using the cream to create
this beverage.
Tropical Temptation
16 oz. pineapple juice 	1 gal. water
2 cups coconut 	3 lbs. sugar
1 8-oz. can mandarin oranges 1/3 pkg. yeast
1 large ripe banana 	2 cups papaya juice
5 kiwi fruit, peeled and diced
Directions: Follow basic wine directions, making sure to boil
this beverage before cooling for yeast. The boiling process
helps to incorporate the differently weighted fruit juices. Shake
daily during fermentation and strain well.
Magickal Associations: Glamoury to improve approachability
and appeal.
History/Lore: The fruits of warm regions offer a refreshing
change from apples and grapes. In Honduran legend, it was

78
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
the banana leaf that covered Adam and Eve, not fig or apple.
Pineapple is the fruit of welcome, and coconut figures in beau-
tifying efforts.
Oriental Rose
1 orange, sliced and seeded 	1 Tbsp. malt extract
(no pith) 	1 tsp. sugar or honey
2 capfuls rose water 	4 oz. skim milk
4 oz. orange soda
Directions: Place your ingredients together in a blender, first
on low speed to dice the orange finely. Then turn to high until
an orange-white foam is forming on top. Serve over crushed
ice.
Magickal Associations: Self-confidence, feeling upbeat and look-
ing as good as you feel. Also physical health.
History/Lore: Oranges played an integral role in offerings to
the gods of the East, being a very valued commodity thought to
provide joy and abundance to all who receive them. Rose wa-
ter promotes self-love and sound judgment.
Pink Personality
2 pink grapefruit 	1 orange
1 banana 	1 cup strawberries
1 cup raspberries 	honey or sugar to taste
1 cup soda water
Directions: Juice and strain fruits before adding honey or soda
water. Mix thoroughly.
Magickal Associations: Overall well-being, exuding an air of
friendliness and approachability.
History/Lore: I have used the combination of color (pink) here
with the natural love-energies of the berries in this drink to
produce a beverage that encourages good thoughts about self
and others.

79
T h e 	R e c i p e s
C	C	C	C	C HANGE	HANGE	HANGE	HANGE	HANGE 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	T	T	T	T	T RANSF	RANSF	RANSF	RANSF	RANSFORMA	ORMA	ORMA	ORMA	ORMATION	TION	TION	TION	TION
“Today is not yesterday—We ourselves change. How then, can
our works and thoughts, if they are always to be the fittest,
continue always the same?”
—Thomas Carlyle
Change is one of the few constants upon which we can
depend, as much of a dichotomy as that may seem to be! Ad-
ditionally, magick is designed to be a transformer, something
that shifts energy into more positive patterns. Brews for change
are one way to help us accomplish this, at least in part be-
cause of the changes that happen just from the normal prepa-
ration process!
Cooking has transformation at its heart—you take one
thing and make it into another. So realistically, any ingredient
can become the key component for transformational tonics,
depending on what you hope to change! Want to turn failure
into success? Try grape juice laden with bay. To turn weak-
ness into strength, use mead with thyme. The key is knowing
the symbolism behind your ingredients.
There are a few items, under the influence of Saturn, that
in themselves inspire change. These include vinegar, beet, and
quince. You will sometimes see vinegar used in beverage, but
usually those for health, so I might suggest this as a libation or
anointing ingredient over one to quaff. Also, if your transfor-
mation tonics can themselves change form during the creation
process, all the better! For example, adding finely crushed ice
to a beverage gives it a semi-solid, shapable consistency. The
alteration in form visually stresses the change you’re making
internally.
Because of the diversity of options, I’ve decided to focus on
specific types of change in this section. Just alter your ingre-
dients to better suit the transitions you face.

80
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Chocolate Mood Lifter
2 oz. semi-sweet chocolate 	1/2 cup cold water
1/2 cup sugar 	1 cup heavy cream, whipped
1/2 qt. milk 	1/2 ltr. mint liqueur
Directions: Place the chocolate in a sauce pan with water and
stir over low heat until totally melted and mixed. Add to this
the sugar, cooking about 10 minutes until thickened. Let this
cool, folding in the whipped cream. Set aside. Next heat the
milk over a low flame until lukewarm. Add the mint liqueur
and cream mixture, stirring until all is well incorporated. Enjoy
hot, or store in the refrigerator, shaking before serving.
Magickal Associations: Pleasure, warmth, fanciful diversions,
turning a negative perspective into something more positive.
History/Lore: Pre-Columbian civilizations in South America were
known to cultivate chocolate. Mexican chocolate was imported
to the New World first as a delicacy, and later as an important
baking staple.
Alternatives: For a beverage to encourage “sun” energies and
health alongside enjoyment, use orange-flavored liqueur in this
recipe in place of the mint. If the mint liqueur is too expen-
sive, use vodka instead and add a teaspoon of mint extract to
the chocolate-water mixture while it is melting.
Fire Refinement
2 large tomatoes 	2 cloves garlic
2 red peppers 	1 cup chopped red cabbage
1 tsp. lime juice 	1 tsp. hot sauce
4 cups water 	1 ltr. whiskey
Directions: Place all your ingredients, finely chopped, into a
large pan with water. Simmer for two hours over low flame.
Strain the mixture through a sieve, pressing as much juice as
possible out of the vegetables. Mix with whiskey and bottle,
aging for at least 30 days before use.

81
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Purification, drastic change, Fire and
Sun related magick.
History/Lore: This beverage, very appropriate to summer ob-
servances, uses the traditional herbs, plants, and colors of fire
to ignite transformation in your life.
Metamorphosis Punch
5 cups sugar or honey 	2 lemons sliced
1 1/2 liter of water 	2 or 3 whole cloves
1 cup wine vinegar 	1 pint mint liqueur
3 Tbsp. dried mint
Directions: Bring the sugar and water to boil until the sugar is
completely dissolved. To this add vinegar, mint, clove, and
lemons. Simmer for 20 minutes. Strain and serve chilled. Mix
with liqueur.
Magickal Associations: Refinement, well-being, poise, personal
change.
History/Lore: A version of an ancient Persian beverage consid-
ered to be very healthful, this drink gets its magickal potency
from the Greek story of Pluto and Persephone. Persephone, in
a moment of jealous rage, crushed the nymph Minthe under
her foot. Pluto, in sadness, transformed her into one of the most
favored herbs of history with a gentle, sweet smell.
Maple Modifications
4 gal. water 	1 qt. maple syrup
2 cups hop 	1 pkg. yeast
Directions: A nice, simple recipe, your water, syrup, and hops
are brought to a low rolling boil for about 20 minutes. Strain
and allow to cool before adding suspended yeast. This needs to
sit for another 24 hours, be strained again, then bottled. Ready
in one week.
Magickal Associations: Tapping inner wells, centering, peace-
ful transitions.

82
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
History/Lore: The maple leaf, having three distinct sections, is
representative of the three-fold nature of both God and hu-
mankind. Each aspect of these is bound together in a smooth
stream (the syrup) that gives attention to the whole person to
encourage balance.
Alternatives: Any berries added to this beverage will help en-
courage self-love to bring well-being.
Strawberries of Virtue
8 whole strawberries 	2 cups orange juice
1 cup raspberries 	1 cup crushed ice
Directions: Place all ingredients together in a blender, adding
more ice if you desire a thicker beverage. Sweetener is not usu-
ally needed.
History/Lore: While berries are generally considered a love food,
we have to love ourselves before we can really incorporate new
qualities and positive changes into our lives. The orange is for
a healthy outlook!
Alternative: It is nice to garnish this drink with carnation, which
symbolizes pride in your progress.
Freedom Fountain
1/2 cup peach juice 	1 1/2 cups carbonated water
1/2 tsp. apple extract 	dash anise
sweetener to taste 	1 bay leaf (garnish)
Directions: Follow the basic soda pop recipe, placing a large
bay leaf on the side of the glass. This is best accomplished by
splitting it up the middle and sliding it over the rim.
Magickal Associations: Breaking bondage, changing bad hab-
its, personal transformation.
History/Lore: According to cunning folk, peaches help to rid
negativity and improve wisdom while apple encourages heal-
ing, anise increases awareness, and the bay leaf is an icon of
strength.

83
T h e 	R e c i p e s
C	C	C	C	C LEANSING	LEANSING	LEANSING	LEANSING	LEANSING 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	P	P	P	P	P URIFICA	URIFICA	URIFICA	URIFICA	URIFICATION	TION	TION	TION	TION
“So great is the effect of cleanliness upon man, that it extends
even to his moral character.”
—Benjamin Rumford
Cleanliness is not simply a physical state; it has a psychic
and astral application too. You will sometimes hear about
people who have poor spiritual hygiene. This means that they
don’t control energy very well, and often leave bits of negativ-
ity and raw emotion laying around. This is very irresponsible in
that those who consequently stumble over the negativity end
up feeling out of sorts and disarmed by the energy. So it re-
mains for each of us to become our own priest/ess, and begin
regular cleansing and purification rites.
What does this mean exactly? Well, in part it means cleans-
ing and purifying your body, mind, and spirit on a routine basis.
It also means doing likewise for your sacred space of home.
Purifying beverages can help us accomplish both tasks, in that
the ingredients will have purgative qualities for both consump-
tion or asperging
Here are some of the ingredients commonly used as
magickal purifiers and cleansers:
anise 	bay 	chamomile
coconut 	fennel 	lavender
lemon 	mint 	sage
thyme 	valerian 	grapefruit
lime 	water 	orange
pepper 	vinegar 	honey
cinnamon 	rosemary 	onion
beer 	salt 	white beverages
rum 	garlic
Purification and cleansing might be best done during the dark
moon (at the same time we traditionally weed the garden to keep
those nasty things out!). For crystal tinctures use aquamarine.

84
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Purifying Beer
4 qts. boiling water 	1 lemon, sliced and seeded
1 cup sugar 	1/8 oz. beer yeast
raisins (optional)
Directions: Turn the flame off below the boiling water and add
sliced lemons and sugar. Cover to let cool until lukewarm.
Meanwhile, dissolve the yeast in 1/4 cup warm water and let it
stand. Pour this into the pot, stirring once, then allow to age
overnight (a full 24 hours) until bubbles form on the surface.
Strain this into your bottles. If desired, add a raisin to each
bottle. Chill before serving. This recipe has a short shelf life
and is ready to consume immediately. After two or three weeks
it will become too bitter to drink, but can instead be mixed with
brown sugar to make a sweet-and-sour glaze for poultry.
Magickal Associations: Purification, cleansing, refreshed love
and ideas.
History/Lore: Lemon brings zest and active energy to any bev-
erage. Because it has a natural purgative quality, it is mostly
associated with magick for refinement. Lemon rind has also
been frequently used in love sachets and potions.
Alternative: Substitute 1 1/2 lbs. of currants for the lemons in
this recipe and reduce your sugar by 1/2 cup for a beer em-
powered for protection and fire magick.
Absolution Wine
1/2 lb. onions 	1/2 lb. potatoes
1 lb. raisins 	1 gal. water
2 lbs. sugar 	1/2 pkg. yeast
(3 for more sweetness)
Directions: Peel and slice onions, placing them in a large pot.
Do likewise with the potatoes, then add the raisins, diced. In a
separate container, warm water and sugar together until dis-
solved, pouring this over the onion-potato mixture. Next add
yeast after you have suspended it in 1/4 cup warm water. Leave

85
T h e 	R e c i p e s
this to ferment in a warm place with a loose cover for two
weeks. Strain and bottle. Generally this is a dry wine, with no
residual onion scent.
Magickal Associations: Cleansing prior to religious study and
worship, foresight, abundance.
History/Lore: Egyptians worshiped onions, regarding them as
one of their most important foods. Hindus likewise felt the on-
ion to be most significant, making it into a symbol of religious
mystery and an object of divination. Arabic and Chinese people
used onions to ward off magick, and in many herbals onion juice
is recommended as a purgative.
Alternative: Barley may be used in place of potatoes for improved
providence (same proportion).
Rum and Citrus Cleansing
12 ripe grapefruits 	1 ltr. dark rum
1 gal. water 	4 lbs. dark honey
1/2 pkg. sparkling yeast
Directions: Pour water into large pot. Peel your grapefruits,
carefully removing the white pith from the peels and the fruit
itself. Cut up peels from four of the fruits and place in a large
pot with the sectioned fruit itself. Bring to a low rolling boil
for 20 minutes, then cool. Strain the fruit, juicing carefully,
then return the liquid to the pan to add honey. Boil again for
15 minutes to clear residue, then follow as with basic recipe
for mead. After three months of aging, strain the base liquid
again, testing for sweetness, and add rum along with any addi-
tional honey you feel is necessary for flavor. Age for a mini-
mum of six months.
Magickal Associations: Purification, knowledge, health.
History/Lore: In some rural areas of England, the grapefruit is
still called “forbidden fruit” as it is one of many to be thought
to be the actual fruit of Eden. Additionally, the tart yellow
juice has a cleansing, protective nature.

86
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Alternatives: For richer flavor, try adding one can of frozen
grapefruit or pineapple juice at the same time as the honey.
Pink Grapefruit Wash
2 qts. fresh strawberries 	8 cups sugar
4 pink grapefruit (large) 	1 slice lemon
1 lb. seedless raisins 	1/3 pkg. wine yeast
1 black tea bag
Directions: Juice your grapefruit, extracting as much liquid as
possible. Place this in a large container with raisins and water,
then leave overnight in a warm area. Move this kettle to the
stove, adding strawberries, the tea bag, sugar, and lemon. Fol-
low basic cooking recipe as given above except that you should
allow cloth-covered fermentation for six days before straining
off berries and raisins. This will allow a fuller-flavored wine.
After first fermentation, wine should be allowed to set for
four months before another straining, then aged an additional
six months before serving.
Magickal Associations: Cleansing outmoded outlooks and im-
proving attitudes.
History/Lore: While strawberries are a traditional love fruit, the
light pink coloration of this wine turns its energy more toward
matters of self-awareness. The grapefruit cleanses unwanted
energy.
Refining Ginger
1/2 cup maple syrup (real) 	1 qt. water
1” bruised gingerroot 	1 pt. ginger liqueur
1/4 cup white vinegar 	1 tsp. anise seed
Directions: Warm the water, gingerroot, anise, and maple syrup
together until they are fully blended. Remove ginger slices. To
this, add all other ingredients in a glass pitcher, stirring well.
Chill.
Magickal Associations: Cleansing, purification, health, and vital
energies.

87
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: Beverages like this were common among early
German settlers to America, especially those who did a lot of
hay harvesting, which often left the throat and sinuses raw. It’s
very effective for getting rid of allergy itches.
Alternatives: Instead of using ginger liqueur, for a non-alco-
holic alternative substitute one pint of bergamot tea (such as
Earl Grey) for similar magickal energies.
Pineapple Purity
5 cups orange juice 	3 cups pineapple juice
1 slice of lemon, squeezed 	1 vanilla cookie stick
orange whipped cream (garnish)
Directions: Pour orange, pineapple, and squeezed lemon juice
into a large covered container and shake well. For simple puri-
fication rites nothing else should be added. For dessert, how-
ever, I recommend a teaspoon of sugar, a gourmet vanilla
cookie, and some orange whipped cream to garnish it.
Magickal Associations: Cleansing, health, psychic and physical
purification, change.
History/Lore: This drink is an excellent prelude to a ritual fast
or bath, both of which have purgative qualities. In the case of
the latter, I suggest adding lemon, orange, and pineapple rinds
to the water.
Alternatives: Lime, mint, and guava juice can be substituted for
lemon, orange, and the vanilla cookie. In this case, the mint leaf
is used for garnish, the magickal effect being much the same.
Purification Pottage
1 tsp. anise 	1 tsp. lavender
1 bay leaf 	1 tsp. lemon juice
1 tsp. chamomile 	1 tsp. mint
1 tsp. fennel 	1 tsp. rosemary
1 tsp. thyme
Directions: Add all the above to a tea kettle of hot water. Steep
for 15 minutes, then serve piping hot before meditation.

88
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
History/Lore: The herbs for this tea were chosen for their cleans-
ing effect on both the body and psyche.
Alternative: To increase the effect of this tea specifically for divi-
nation efforts, add a slice of orange and a bit of onion to the
stew. This tastes a little like a weak soup.
C	C	C	C	C OMMUNICA	OMMUNICA	OMMUNICA	OMMUNICA	OMMUNICATION	TION	TION	TION	TION
“Brandy must be a decoction of hearts and tongues, because
after drinking it I fear nothing and I talk wonderfully.”
—James G. Frazer
One of the most difficult things for most people is deter-
mining the difference between what’s heard and what some-
one actually meant by their words. In days when our language
forms and slang change nearly as quickly as socks, there is a
tremendous need to develop our spiritual ears to hear truly.
Likewise our words need to be sensitive, honest, and filled with
magick. How can this be accomplished?
The nice part about magickal beverages is that the first
place they touch is our lips and tongues. Also, you have the
option of making gargles out of your brews, to refresh your
mouth and words with the energy needed at the moment!
Here’s a list of ingredients commonly associated with com-
munication skills:
brandy 	mead 	yellow hues
dandelion 	mint 	sage
clove 	honey 	raspberries
In terms of crystal tinctures, you can combine agate, beryl,
bloodstone, and carnelian for the greatest effect. Bless your
brews while standing in the eastern quarter of a magickal circle,
the region associated with effective conveying of messages.

89
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Cordial Cordial!
1 cup water 	1 Tbsp. vanilla extract
1 whole clove 	1 small cinnamon stick
1 cup heather honey 	2 cups vodka
Directions: Place the water in a large saucepan and bring to a
low rolling boil. Add spices, allowing to infuse like a tea while
the water cools. If you don’t like cloves that much, remove them
before the water reaches lukewarm. Strain, then re-warm to
dissolve the honey, removing any froth that comes to the sur-
face. Add vodka, strain, and bottle securely, allowing to age
for two weeks before consumption.
Magickal Associations: Messages, rapport, opening the lines of
discourse.
History/Lore: This beverage, with but minor changes, owes its
origins to Prussia, where it is believed to aid smooth speech
and effective communications. Cloves were a favorite medieval
breath freshener used between lovers who hoped to steal a kiss!
Alternatives: To further accentuate the power of speech in this
recipe, try replacing the vanilla with either mint or almond ex-
tract. Both of these are aligned with the element of Air, which
helps move messages towards their proper destination.
The Messenger
1 lb. fresh raspberries 	1 lb. fresh blackberries
1 16-oz. can frozen 	1 gal. water
raspberry-cranberry juice 	2 lbs. light honey
1/2 pkg. yeast 	1/2 ltr. raspberry brandy
1/2 ltr. blackberry brandy
Directions: This recipe is prepared the same as the Rum and
Citrus Cleansing (p. 85), except that you do not strain out the
raspberries until just before you add the brandy. The leftover
fruit makes excellent conserves when mixed with a 1/2 pound
coconut and one pound of apples plus six cups sugar, and boiled.
Magickal Associations: Sending and receiving messages, includ-
ing those directed to the God/dess.

90
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
History/Lore: The blackberry has the unique distinction of be-
ing regarded as the burning bush of biblical fame. In the Ameri-
cas, certain Native American tribes used blackberries mixed
with honey as ceremonial food. The raspberry was similarly
honored among the Native Americans with a special ceremony
upon their first harvest where they would ask the spirit of the
fruit for help with all endeavors of peace and war, especially
communication.
Alternative: If the price of brandy is prohibitive, try a fruit-
flavored vodka in this recipe instead.
Talk-It-Over Brew
4 12-oz. bottles dark ale 	1 orange peeled
1/2 cup cognac 	nutmeg (garnish)
4 tsp. honey
Directions: Slowly heat all your ingredients until the honey is
well blended, then pour into a warm punch bowl. Sprinkle top
with nutmeg and a bit of cinnamon, if desired. Makes enough
for eight people.
Magickal Associations: Flowing discourse, free parlay, ease of
communications.
History/Lore: In the Elizabethan era, punches similar to this
were considered quite able to encourage free speech among
the celebrants—to the point of rumor-mongering!
Dandelion Discussions
1 gal. orange juice 	1 lemon, juiced
3 cups dandelion petals 	1/4 cup of sugar
ginger ale (optional)
Directions: Clean off the dandelion petals with cool water. In
the meantime, warm the orange juice and lemon together, then
add dandelions. Make certain you only have petals (no green
parts). Add the sugar, stirring constantly until dissolved, strain,
and chill. Fill a glass three quarters of the way and add ginger
ale to fill for a light, bubbly body.

91
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Communicating with the spirit world.
History/Lore: This lovely spring tonic makes good use of pesky
weeds to rejuvenate the body with Earth’s reawakening. Dan-
delions are high in vitamins and legends claim that Hecate once
entertained Theseus with dandelion water.
Cool-Headed Commentary
1 thinly sliced cucumber 	1 qt. tomato juice
1 cinnamon stick 	6 whole cloves
salt and pepper to taste
Directions: Mix the spices with juice and cucumber and allow
this to set at room temperature for one hour. Remove the spices
and chill. Serve with a stalk of celery.
Magickal Associations: Calmness, peace, and tranquility, espe-
cially when trying to relay difficult ideas.
History/Lore: The power of the aphorism “cool as a cucumber”
in this recipe is undeniable. Actually, cool cucumbers have been
used to relieve pain, especially for headaches, in folk medicine,
which could have lead to the idea that they ease stress.
Arrowroot Armistice
1 1/2 tsp. arrowroot 	1 tsp. superfine sugar
1 cup skim milk
Directions: Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk and let sit.
Boil the remaining milk and pour over the mixture. Return all
of this to a small pan, add sugar, and simmer for five minutes.
Strain and sweeten, drinking it warm.
Magickal Associations: Courage, especially in discussing diffi-
cult relationship issues.
History/Lore: This beverage, known for its calming effect, also
acts as lubricant. Arrowroot, when carried by a bride, is said
to insure seven years of joy and love to the couple.
Alternative: To improve the energies in this beverage specifi-
cally for bravery, add one teaspoon of black tea or thyme.

92
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Coffee Talk
2 Tbsp. sugar 	1/5 cup water
2 Tbsp. dark coffee beans
Directions: Begin by grinding the coffee beans to a flour-like
powder. In a separate saucepan, stir sugar and water together
over low flame until dissolved. Blend in coffee powder and boil.
Remove this from the stove heat and let settle. Repeat the boil-
ing process two more times and serve in small cups. Add a twist
of lemon rind, nutmeg, cloves, cardamom, or nutmeg for ex-
tra flavor.
Magickal Associations: Energy for building friendships and good
lines of communication.
History/Lore: This drink is enjoyed popularly in Turkey and
Russia with similar reverence to the Arabic coffee house, where
friends and associates can gather for light conversation and
simple companionship.
C	C	C	C	C ONSCIOUS	ONSCIOUS	ONSCIOUS	ONSCIOUS	ONSCIOUS 	M	M	M	M	M IND	IND	IND	IND	IND
“To live so as to keep human consciousness in constant
relation with the divine, the spiritual and the eternal,
is to individualize the infinite power.”
—Mary Baker Eddy
We live in a technologically driven society, which means
our conscious, rational self is very important to coping with
daily reality. It is also a good helpmate in magick where there
is a temptation to let one’s heart lead one’s head. While magick
is an intuitive art, there is a place for logic and clear thinking in
our efforts—especially in terms of recognizing our motives,
finding a clear, concise method for achieving our goals, and in
choosing the tools/ingredients suited to those goals.
Here are some of the common edible components used
for stressing and strengthening mental abilities:

93
T h e 	R e c i p e s
coffee 	marjoram 	mint
nutmeg 	rosemary 	walnut
celery 	caraway 	grape
cinnamon 	tea 	raisins
honey 	dill 	orange
grapefruit 	ginger 	coconut
pineapple
For crystal tinctures, you have amethyst, coral, and fluo-
rite from which to choose. Also, besides drinking your con-
scious mind brews, you might also consider making them for
anointing. Dab a bit on your temples before reading complex
materials, or on your books when studying. Put a small drop
on the computer screen too!
Conscious Cordial
1 cup water 	2 cups sugar
3 cups whiskey 	2 cups mixed orange, lemon,
and grapefruit peels
Directions: Warm the water in a small saucepan with sugar
until dissolved. Add this to the whiskey and fruit peels. Please
note that you should remove as much of the white lining from
the peels as possible to alleviate tartness in this cordial. Leave
the ingredients to set together in a sealed container for three
months. Strain and serve warm with a touch of honey and cin-
namon sticks.
Magickal Associations: Good health, revitalization, refreshed
perspectives, mental keenness.
History/Lore: Inhale this beverage deeply to immediately re-
fresh one’s conscious mind. Note that this is an excellent blend
to offset any colds during the winter months because of its
high vitamin C content.
Alternatives: For fruitier flavor and increased vitamin benefit,
decrease whiskey by one cup, adding a half cup each orange
and grapefruit juice, plus one teaspoon lemon juice. Sugar con-
tent may need to be increased for personal taste.

94
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Memory Liqueur
6 12-oz. bottles ginger beer 	1/2 cup honey
3 cups ginger ale 	1 pt. ginger liqueur
2 oranges sliced thinly 	1 sprig fresh rosemary (garnish)
Directions: Use one bottle of ginger beer to warm the honey in
until it is dissolved. Add ginger ale to this mixture and stir until
well incorporated. Chill remaining ginger beer and liqueur,
pouring this with the honey blend into a medium-sized punch
bowl. Float oranges on top. May be served hot if desired.
Magickal Associations: Mental health and keenness; energy for
memory retention.
History/Lore: Ginger was one of the nine great herbs of the Middle
Ages, whereas rosemary is touted as a surefire memory enhancer.
Capable Carnations
1 qt. hot water 	1/4 cup lavender
2 cups carnation petals 	2 or 3 whole cloves
1 cup sugar 	1 stick of cinnamon
1 lemon, peeled 	1/2 cup rose petals
Directions: Steep carnation petals, roses, and lavender in water
for 24 hours. Strain, then rewarm this liquid adding sugar, lemon
peel, cloves, and cinnamon. Simmer for 20 minutes, strain and
serve warm.
Magickal Associations: Skill, expertise, mental proficiency
History/Lore: Carnations were the favorite flower of Henry IV
of France. Pliny claims that carnations were discovered in Spain
during the reign of Augustus Caesar, and recommended them
best picked in July. This may be why one of the folk names for
carnation is gillyflower (July flower).
Mental Might
1 tsp. grape extract 	1/3 tsp. mint extract
1 cup carbonated water 	sweetener to taste
mint leaf (garnish)
Directions: Follow general directions for soda pop.

95
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: The conscious mind; matters of study,
education, logic.
History/Lore: Eating grapes is believed to improve concentra-
tion and mental faculties. Perhaps that is why the leaders in
Rome and Greece were fed them so frequently by servants.
Additionally, the aroma of mint is supposed to aid these types
of efforts.
Cognizant Tonic
1 bottle dark ale 	1/2 tsp. yarrow
1/2 tsp. rosemary 	1/2” bruised ginger
Directions: Place rosemary, yarrow, and ginger in a tea ball or
gauze covering and steep in the ale, which has been heated.
Drink warm with a squeeze of lime or chill and enjoy anytime.
Magickal Associations: Constancy, mental tenacity, courage,
especially during troublesome cycles.
History/Lore: According to folk medicine, tonics like this one
are excellent for maintaining health, boldness, strength, and
mental agility for those trying times.
Sumac Physic
1 generous handful of 	1 gal. water
red staghorn sumac
Directions: Heat water and steep the sumac for 12 hours. Be-
fore straining, squeeze the sumac to get as much flavor out as
possible. Strain this liquid and sweeten with honey for a lem-
ony-flavored beverage.
Magickal Associations: Sun energy, conscious awareness.
History/Lore: While this recipe is from Morgana’s contempo-
rary kitchen, in the 1900s sumac was used as a gargle for sore
throat, a tonic for fever, and to ease urinary infections.

96
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Study Strawberries
1 slice orange 	1 pt. distilled water
1 whole lemon, juiced 	2 tsp. strawberry syrup
1 tsp. vanilla extract
Directions: Warm the distilled water and orange slice together,
adding the juice of one lemon and flavorings. Serve hot.
Magickal Associations: Luck, especially in matters of study or
the conscious mind; increased energy.
History/Lore: Recommended mostly for cold symptoms, all the
ingredients in this beverage are ruled by Venus, making this an
appropriate beverage to bring renewed health to love as well.
D	D	D	D	D E	E	E	E	EV	VV	V	VO	O	O	O	OTION	TION	TION	TION	TION 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	C	C	C	C	C OMMIT	OMMIT	OMMIT	OMMIT	OMMITMENT	MENT	MENT	MENT	MENT
“There is no bridge so difficult to cross
as the bridge of a broken promise.”
—Hosletter’s U.S. Almanac 1897
We normally think of devotion and commitment as having
to do with relationships, but these two characteristics have far
more dimension than that. What about your devotion to a job,
your commitment to a project, or keeping the promise made to
a friend? All of these things require a certain level of tenacity
and follow-through, which is exactly the type of energy these
beverages are designed to inspire.
Some of the edible ingredients that support this goal
include:
elderflowers 	honey 	lemon
orange 	tea 	violet
rhubarb 	figs 	peaches
For crystal tinctures use lodestone, which has a natural
“stick-to-it” ability! Also, when you’re making this particular
brew, don’t get distracted—really focus on this one! The greater

97
T h e 	R e c i p e s
your ability to be “devoted” to the process of making your
magickal beverage, the more that energy will filter down into
the finished product.
Oath Potion
1/2 lb. dried figs 	6 ripe peaches, pitted
6 pomegranates, juiced 	1 cup sugar (or more to taste)
1 qt. distilled spirits (your choice)
Directions: Place your ingredients in equal proportions split
between two one-qt. jars. Make sure that peaches and figs are
pierced first (use a fork or toothpick). Cover securely, shaking
daily for one month, then strain and bottle for use.
Magickal Associations: Commitment, approval, verification.
History/Lore: This beverage is often called Ratafia, and it comes
from a tradition of the Middle Ages where parties accepting
any legal transaction or agreement would share a drink to cel-
ebrate its “ratification.” Figs here are used for insight, peaches
for wisdom, and pomegranate for luck.
Loyalty Libation
4 lbs. rhubarb, cut 	2 lemon rinds, grated
1 gal. boiling water 	3 lbs. sugar
Directions: Place the cut rhubarb with lemon rind and sugar in
water. Let sit for three days with the pot covered, then strain,
returning the liquid to the crock (the rhubarb can be used for
pie). Let this stand for two weeks, then place in a large, tightly
covered container for one month. Strain and bottle for use.
Magickal Associations: Commitment to relationships, fidelity.
History/Lore: Rhubarb is a plant under the ruling of Venus and
the element of Earth, making it an excellent choice for giving
any situation requiring personal devotion a strong foundation.
Alternatives: Try decreasing your water content by one quart
and substituting apple juice, and adding one cup of raisins
with the rhubarb and lemon to the pot. Magickally this is for
wisdom in love.

98
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Raspberry Romance
1 cup fresh raspberries 	1 cup pineapple juice
1/4 cup grapefruit juice 	1 slice of lemon
Directions: Blend or mash the raspberries until very fine. Slowly
add the other juices and a touch of sugar if needed to offset any
tartness. Garnish with a slice of lemon.
Magickal Associations: Faithfulness, loyalty, and commitment,
especially in relationships.
History/Lore: Pineapple juice is thought to hinder stray pas-
sions, while berries in general are “love” foods. In some lands,
ancient brides carried lemon flowers as a symbol of purity and
tenderness.
Tenacity Tonic
1 cup dried jonquil petals 	1/2 cup dried French lavender
2 cups warm water 	sugar to taste
Directions: Infuse the petals with warm water for 12 hours, pref-
erably during a waxing to full moon. Strain and sweeten. Serve
over ice with a fresh flower to bring hope.
History/Lore: In the language of flowers, jonquil means the re-
turn of affection, while lavender speaks of appreciation and
responsiveness, so that two devoted people may equally give
and receive.
Fidelity Brew
2 cups milk 	1 sliced onion
1 clove of garlic, minced 	1 tsp. butter
1 slice of toast, diced
Directions: Place all ingredients except the toast in your blender,
mixing until well incorporated. Warm this over a low flame,
add butter, then pour over toast before drinking. This helps
relieve chills.
Magickal Associations: Protection of home, relationships, and
strong sense of fidelity.

99
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: Often used in cold curatives or to improve an
appetite. Magickally, Romans were particularly fond of house-
leeks (a type of onion) to protect their residence from fire,
violence, and the evil eye.
Alternative: Add a cooked potato for a beverage with the thick-
ness of a cream soup.
Rice Integrity
1 oz. rice, rinsed 	1/2 qt. water
1/2 qt. milk 	lemon peel and nutmeg powder
Directions: Macerate rice for three hours in hot water. Move
this to the stove, boiling for one hour then straining the liquid
into another saucepan. To this, add milk and boil again, fla-
voring with lemon and nutmeg.
Magickal Associations: Fidelity in love. New romance, rain
magick, fertility.
History/Lore: This beverage is wonderful for easing stomach
discomforts and any sense of distrust in relationships.
Mocha Assurance
3 cups Mocha Java coffee 	6 Tbsp. strawberry syrup
1 pt. strawberry ice cream
Directions: Prepare coffee as per directions on the label of your
grounds. Chill this in the refrigerator until refreshingly cold.
Pour three cups of the coffee in a blender with syrup and ice
cream for a marvelous shake that cools the body and sweetens
disposition.
Magickal Associations: Relief of anxiety, especially in relation-
ships. Energy for renewed trust, accord, and love.
History/Lore: There is nothing that elicits fond, happy memo-
ries like going strawberry picking in a wild field. This vision is
one of repose and a break from turmoil. Additionally, the straw-
berry is a love food, making this beverage especially helpful
with overactive imaginations or tempers.

100
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
D	D	D	D	D REAMS	REAMS	REAMS	REAMS	REAMS AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	M	M	M	M	M EDIT	EDIT	EDIT	EDIT	EDITA	A	A	A	ATIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS
“Children of the night [dreams], of indigestion bred!”
—Charles Churchill
Dream and meditative work is something we’re seeing more
of in the magickal community. Why? In part as a response to
the chaos around us. We need “down” time, moments of soul-
ful stillness where we can hear the Sacred speaking to us, and
sort out all the information received by our minds daily.
Now, achieving this is a whole other matter. The chaos
does not simply “go away” when we might wish. So we have to
find ways to tune out the world and turn our thoughts inward
to the dream time and our meditations. The beverages in this
section are designed to help you do that. By internalizing their
energy, you will have a greater capacity to close yourself off
temporarily from any influences other than the spiritual ones
you seek.
Here are some of the traditional ingredients associated
with dream work and meditation:
marigold 	onion 	rose
grapes 	beer 	rosemary
sage 	thyme 	anise
hops 	peppermint 	cucumber
carrot
Consider drinking these beverages out of a silver-toned cup
to stress the lunar connection and intuitive self. In terms of tim-
ing, I highly recommend a full moon for similar reasons. For
best results, drink dream beverages in small quantities prior
to going to bed; consume meditation beverages about two hours
out so it has time to be internalized. For crystal tinctures turn
to moonstone, geodes, and amethyst. Don’t forget to dab a bit
on your third eye chakra to stress the psychic self’s involve-
ment in these processes.

101
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Dreamy Mead
The hops in this recipe are not added as a flavor, but a
clarifier that allows the finished mead to be unclouded with a
distinctively less dense taste.
1 gal. water 	2 oranges
1 oz. cascade hops 	1 lemon
4 lbs. light honey 	1/2 lb. yellow raisins
1/2 pkg. yeast
Directions: Place water, hops, honey, and sliced fruit into your
pot, boiling as in the basic recipe, but only for 30 minutes. Re-
duce heat and add chopped raisins, stirring for another five
minutes before removing from flame. Cool, strain, and add
yeast as instructed above. Place five raisins in each bottle be-
fore closing. Aging time after secure corking is one year.
Magickal Associations: Sweet dreams.
History/Lore: A tea made from hops is sometimes used to im-
prove sleep and encourage a healthy appetite.
Devic Nectar
1 qt. apple juice 	1 Tbsp. rose water
2 oranges, juiced 	1 tsp. thyme
2 cups honey 	1 qt. soda
sliced pineapple 	sliced lemon
whole grapes 	whole cherries
clover flowers (garnish)
Directions: Place the apple juice, orange juice, honey, rose
water, and thyme in a blender and mix well. Pour this into a
bowl, slowly adding the soda water. Stir in some ice (about 12
cubes) and float the whole fruits and flowers on top. The
amount of whole fruit is according to your personal taste.
Magickal Associations: Understanding and vision of the “un-
seen” world that come to you in meditations and dreams; fairy
friendship and welcoming.

102
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Visionary Vibrancy
2 cups carrot wine 	2 cups onion wine
1 cup boiling water 	5 pinches (1 tsp.) angelica
5 whole nutmeg beads
Directions: Place the angelica and nutmeg in a tea ball to steep
in hot water for 15 minutes. Mix this with the onion and carrot
wines, which should be chilled and well blended. Serve to five
people on the fifth day of the week for best results.
Magickal Associations: Psychic dreams and spiritual insight.
History/Lore: Five is the number for psychic endeavors, com-
bined powerfully with herbs for spiritual awareness, nutmeg,
and angelica. Onions are thought to produce prophetic dreams,
and carrots are said to improve vision.
Meditative Mix
1 cup dandelion flowers 	2 cups spinach
1 clove garlic 	1 cup romaine lettuce
1 medium onion 	1 tsp. rose water or
1/2 cup diced rose petals
Directions: Keep rose water or petals out of juicing process. Add
at the end, either by stirring in or floating on top for a garnish.
Magickal Associations: Preparation for meditation, especially
those aimed at improving divinatory abilities.
History/Lore: The scent of roses is thought to encourage pro-
phetic dreams. In the language of flowers, the dandelion means
“oracle.” Garlic is to purify the visions and the green vegetables
are for growing awareness.
Dreaming of Love
2 or 3 apples, sliced 	3 cups hot water
1 mint leaf 	honey and lemon if desired
Directions: Steep the apples and mint together in hot water for
one hour, then strain. This is excellent warm with a stick of
cinnamon or chilled over ice.

103
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Refreshing love. Dreams that teach wis-
dom and perspective in relationships.
History/Lore: This recipe is favored in France and Australia to
help invalids. Additionally, apple is one of the popular ingredi-
ents for love potions.
Nutty Notions
2 cups blanched walnuts, 	4 thin slices fresh ginger,
crushed 	bruised
1 tsp. black tea 	2 cups boiling water
sugar or honey
Directions: Bring the water to a full rolling boil, then remove from
the heat adding all ingredients except sugar. Let mixture sit for
25 minutes. Drain and rewarm, adding sweetening as desired.
Magickal Associations: Resourcefulness and innovation when
approaching your dream visions or meditative time.
History/Lore: Nuts are foods for fertility, including improving
one’s imagination. Meanwhile, ginger adds stimulation and
overall energy to your endeavor.
E	E	E	E	E LEMENT	LEMENT	LEMENT	LEMENT	LEMENTAL	AL	AL	AL	AL AND	AND	AND	AND	AND S	S	S	S	S EASONAL	EASONAL	EASONAL	EASONAL	EASONAL
“To everything there is a season,
and a time to every purpose under heaven.”
—Ecclesiastes 3:1
Witches use the symbolism of the elements (Earth, Air,
Fire, and Water), and that of the seasons for many things. First,
we use them to honor the Earth’s cycles. For example, we might
choose to make Air-oriented beverages to serve at Spring gath-
erings. Second, each of the elements has specific attributes as-
sociated with it. By creating a beverage with distinct elemental
overtones, we can internalize the energy of that element. For
example, if you lacked energy, a Fire-based beverage is a good
choice!

104
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Similarly, each season is associated with an element and a
location in our sacred circles. Spring corresponds with Air and
the East, Summer with Fire and the South, Fall with Water
and the West, and Winter with Earth and the North. What
does all this mean? Effectively it gives you tons of flexibility
with your brewing endeavors. For example, you could prepare
a brew in Summer months to instill it with “Summer” or “Fire”
energy. And, you could also use that beverage to mark or honor
the southern part of your sacred space! Or, you could prepare
a “Fire”-based beverage to use as a libation for Summer ritu-
als. Mix and match however you wish!
For ease of reference, each element and season will be
discussed separately in this section:
Spring/Air/East
This is the season of renewal, creativity, transformation,
and hope. Traditional ingredients include almond, dandelion,
woodruff, anise, honey, clover, daisy, pansy, mint, parsley, sage,
and yellow- or pink-colored drinks. For crystal tinctures, turn
to mica. To encourage Spring-like energy, prepare these bev-
erages at dawn.
Spring Brews
Whiskey Tea
1 Tbsp. pennyroyal 	1 tsp. raspberry vinegar
3 whole cloves 	1/2 tsp. lavender
1 cup hot water 	2 tsp. honey
1 tsp. mullein
Directions: Steep the pennyroyal, cloves, lavender, and mullein
in boiling water for 15 minutes, then strain. To this add honey
and mix until fully incorporated, and then add raspberry vin-
egar. Sip after an asthma attack has begun to fade.
Magickal Associations: Calming winds, Air magick, grounding
flights of fancy, the vital breath.

105
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: This will also neatly offset allergy and asthma
attacks that sometimes come with Spring blossoms.
Flowing Spring
1 gal. apple cider or juice 	1 apple tea bag
4 cups real maple syrup 	1/4 tsp. orange rind
1 cinnamon stick (optional) 	1/3 pkg. yeast
Directions: You can use the basic directions given for wine, ex-
cept that in this instance, the syrup is your sugar substitute.
Open-air fermentation with a towel takes place for 10 days
before straining. After this, a loosely covered container will
be needed for four to five months until wine is clear. Then
bottle with good corks or tightened tops.
Magickal Associations: Renewed life and energy, health and
sweet diversions.
History/Lore: In the Spring, tree sap begins to move freely again
through the trees, bringing them essential nutrients to bear leaves
and come out of their sleep. Cider and apple juice blend nicely
with this energy, being strongly associated with well-being.
Butterscotch Breeze
2 1/2 cups milk 	2 eggs, beaten frothy
1 pt. butterscotch ice cream 	2 tsp. brandy extract
dash nutmeg
Directions: Place milk and eggs together in blender, mixing until
foamy. Next add the remaining ingredients and serve in a mug.
Magickal Associations: New beginnings, renewed health, the
energy of Spring and rebirth, the God/dess within.
History/Lore: The symbolism for this beverage comes to us
from the ever-versatile egg. The egg has been so important to
human foods and trade that literally hundreds of superstitions
have evolved around it. The first egg laid by a hen is thought
very lucky to the point of encouraging wish-fulfillment, eggs
are only to be brought into a house during daylight, and bro-
ken eggs have oft been used for scrying forms of divination.

106
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickally the egg is considered the sign of fertility, as is seen
so readily in Eostre celebrations. Many of the ancient creation
stories and deities related to the same have some type of egg
figured into them.
Summer/Fire/South
This is the season of energy, purification, and abundance.
Traditional ingredients include allspice, basil, beer, all distilled
beverages, carrot, celery, chrysanthemum, cinnamon, coffee,
daisy, dill, fennel, ginger, garlic, nettle, onion, rose, marigold,
nasturtium, bay, clove, nutmeg, orange, radish, tea, wine, and
red beverages. For crystal elixirs use amber, carnelian, blood-
stone, and lava stone. To encourage Summer-like energy, pre-
pare these beverages at noon.
Summer Brews
Fire Festival
1 tsp. allspice 	1 tsp. nutmeg
1/4 tsp. basil 	1/2 tsp. peppermint
2 bay leaves 	1 tsp. black tea
1/2 tsp. cinnamon 	1 whole orange, sliced
6 whole cloves 	1 small lime, sliced
1/4 tsp. fennel 	2 Tbsp. pomegranate juice
1/2 tsp. ginger 	1 cup honey
1 ltr. whiskey
Directions: Place all your ingredients together in a large con-
tainer that can be securely sealed. Leave in a sunny window,
shaking daily for one month. Do not open during this time.
Strain and enjoy hot or cold (hot is probably more magickally
appropriate).
Magickal Associations: Vibrant energy, increasing power, the
God aspect, mental awareness, the Fire element.
History/Lore: Each of the ingredients for this beverage, including
the whiskey as “fire water,” are strongly associated with the

107
T h e 	R e c i p e s
element of Fire itself. Magickally, Fire is related to the south-
ern portion of the circle and the attributes of vigor, strength,
and leadership.
South of the Border
1/2 cup warm tequila 	1 cup dark roast coffee
brown sugar to taste 	cinnamon stick (for stirring)
1/4 tsp. nutmeg 	cream (garnish)
Directions: Mix your tequila, coffee, and sugar together in a
personally pleasing balance. Pour into a cup, stirring with a cin-
namon stick clockwise, then drizzle cream over top with a
sprinkle of nutmeg. Envision the element of Fire filling your
inner wells and sparking creativity.
Magickal Associations: Vision, illumination, divination by Fire.
History/Lore: A truly Mexican beverage, this drink is dedicated
to the southern quarter of our magick circle, which not only
represents the sun, but the devic energy of salamanders—crea-
tures who live and dance in the fires. Thus, this recipe is an
excellent libation for fire scrying and the power light has to fill
any darkness in your life.
Alternatives: Consider adding other solar flavors to this bever-
age by way of a slice of orange, a bay leaf, or a sliver of lime.
Fall/Water/West
This is the season focused on the harvest, community, bal-
ance, and preparation. Traditional components include apple
juice, cardamom, chamomile, mint, thyme, banana, pear, peach,
birch (birch beer) catnip, pineapple, berries, cherry juice, choco-
late beverages, heather, kiwi, lemon, and mead. For crystal ton-
ics use blue agate, amethyst, fluorite, moonstone, and holy
stones. Prepare these beverages at dusk.

108
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Fall 	Brews
Fall Metheglin
(A mead made with herbs, often used for health purposes.)
1 cup dried apple 	7 bay leaves
2 large cinnamon sticks 	1” bruised gingerroot
12 whole cloves 	7 whole allspice berries
1 tsp. nutmeg 	1 gal. water
3 lbs. dark honey 	1/2 pkg. sparkling yeast
1 Tbsp. dried lemon peel 	1 Tbsp. dried orange peel
(or fresh from 1 whole fruit) 	(or fresh from 1 whole fruit)
Directions: Try to begin this yeast in November of one year so
that it will be ready for the next Fall’s celebrations. Place all
your ingredients except the honey in a two-gallon pan with
water. Simmer for one hour so that the water takes on a tea-
like quality. Now add the honey, bringing the entire mixture
to a boil to skim off scum. Boil for 15 minutes, then follow
basic recipe. This mead has a marvelously crisp Fall flavor
and is good both hot and cold.
Magickal Associations: The harvest, thankfulness, prudence.
History/Lore: This is basically a mulled beverage that is tradition-
ally made here for enjoyment during Lammas, Fall Equinox, and
Thanksgiving into the Yule season. It has all the scents and fla-
vors of the holidays to inspire your magick for this season.
Lammas Libations
1 qt. apple mead 	1 tsp. nutmeg
1 tsp. rose water 	5 sprigs fresh thyme
Directions: Mix the first three ingredients together and
chill. Serve in five glasses with one sprig of thyme each on
August 1.
Magickal Associations: Kinship with the fairy kinds or devic
realms, psychic vision, and insight. Celebrating the harvest.
History/Lore: Rose, honey, and thyme are all thought to be
excellent temptations to the Wee Folk to come for a visit.

109
T h e 	R e c i p e s
And because they are active during Lammas, the first harvest
festival, the goal is accentuated by apple mead and a little nut-
meg for perception.
Fall Frolic
6 cups hot apple juice 	dash nutmeg
2 Tbsp. maple syrup 	dash ginger
2 tsp. honey 	2 or 3 whole cloves
2 bay leaves 	2 or 3 whole allspice
1/2 stick cinnamon 	juice of one orange
Directions: Mix syrup and honey with the apple juice until dis-
solved. Add your spices and allow to infuse like a tea until cool.
Strain off whole spices, adding orange juice before freezing.
Finish by following the general directions for mead. Possible
garnishes include rum sauce, a slice of apple or orange, or a little
sweet cream.
Magickal Associations: Any Fall-related festival, the harvest of
labors, outcomes, and results.
History/Lore: This is a wonderful, mead-like Autumn bever-
age, which is also good warm, by the way. It tastes like all the
favorite traditional scents of Fall and is especially nice for
Thanksgiving gatherings.
Alternative: Peach juice, sacred to many Chinese deities, may be
substituted for apple in this recipe for magickal energy toward
helping bring wishes into reality.
Winter/Earth/North
A time of rest, frugality, gestation, and grounding. Tradi-
tional components include any white beverage, snow or icicles
(melted for water), barley, dill, beet juice, any easily stored
fruit, cinnamon, honey, coconut, primrose, rhubarb, eggs, and
potato. For crystal concoctions use turquoise or moss agate.
If possible, prepare these beverages at midnight.

110
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Winter 	Brews
Earth’s Winter Wonder
2 cups coffee, chilled 	1 jigger dark rum
3 jiggers coffee liqueur 	whipped cream
3 jiggers irish cream liqueur 	grated coconut
Directions: Shake your coffee, liqueurs, and rum together in a
large container until well blended. Pour this mixture over shaved
ice and garnish with whipped cream and coconut. Serves two.
Magickal Associations: Earth healing, Earth magick, rest, as an
accent to any Winter festival.
History/Lore: The Earth in this recipe is the rich, dark color like
fertile soil. This is neatly hidden by a tuft of snow on top (cream
and coconut), the latter of which protects the sleeping land.
Winter Hope
1 cup white grape juice 	1 cup pineapple juice
1 cup persimmon juice 	2 cups warm ginger ale
Directions: Warm the juices together over a low flame. Add this
to the ginger ale, which is at room temperature. Garnish with
a fresh flower to remind yourself Spring is not that far away.
History/Lore: Persimmon is the fruit of hope, while the other
components of this beverage give it a bright yellow color to re-
mind us of warmer days.
Hot Apple Toddy
1 cup pineapple juice 	3 large apples
1/2 lemon 	1 orange
dash cinnamon 	dash ginger
1 Tbsp. brewers yeast
Directions: Follow basic recipe for juicing, adding ginger and
cinnamon with brewers yeast afterward. Serve warm.
Magickal Associations: Centering, balance.
History/Lore: Apples are associated with spiritual wisdom that
can only come through personal insight. The warmth of this

111
T h e 	R e c i p e s
drink draws your attention directly to your center of gravity,
which can help you to focus energy and bring improved inner
harmony.
Leftover Cordial
1 lb. leftover fruit from 	1 12-oz. can frozen fruit
other brewing efforts 	juice (your choice)
2 cups sugar or honey 	1 ltr. vodka
Directions: Place your leftover fruit and fruit juice (undiluted)
in a medium-sized pan to warm. Add sugar or honey and bring
to a low boil. Allow this mixture to cool completely, then pour
it into a wide mouth jar with vodka. Cover securely and age
for three months before straining and serving.
Magickal Associations: Frugality, economy, and conservation of
resources.
History/Lore: In a variety of older brewing recipes, I found ref-
erence to uses for fruit strainings as part of other wines, meads,
and even food items. In this way, our ancestors were wont to
waste nothing. For the modern magician, this approach repre-
sents a chance to live in greater reciprocity with nature.
F	F	F	F	F ER	ER	ER	ER	ERTILITY	TILITY	TILITY	TILITY	TILITY AND	AND	AND	AND	AND P	P	P	P	P R	R	R	R	ROVIDENCE	OVIDENCE	OVIDENCE	OVIDENCE	OVIDENCE
“We are not to lead events,
but follow them.”
—Epictetus
The old saying that God helps those who help themselves
is not lost on witches. We firmly believe that the more con-
crete effort we put into our magickal goals, the better the
results will be. Nonetheless, there are times in our lives when
it seems as if providence needs a boost—when it seems as if
life and our options have grown barren. When this happens,
it’s important to recognize that change must come from both
directions. We need to change our perspectives to ones more

112
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
hopeful and confident, and we need to extend that positive en-
ergy out from ourselves to manifest the transformation desired.
With this in mind, the beverages in this section might be
best utilized by both drinking and asperging (or libations). This
visually and sensually mirrors the within—without equation
you’re seeking to balance out. Here are some of the traditional
components that encourage providence and fertility:
apple juice 	banana 	cabbage juice
egg 	grapes 	kiwi
honey 	milk 	peach juice
strawberry 	water 	rice milk
grains 	alfalfa 	raspberries
nuts 	dates 	figs
Note that when I say fertility that it can apply to far more
than getting pregnant. What if you want a fertile garden, or
fertile opportunities? Broaden your vision of what various words
mean, and you likewise broaden your magickal options!
In terms of timing, I’d suggest preparing these beverages
during a waxing or full moon for best results, or during a blue
moon if you really need a miracle. For crystal tinctures try am-
ber, coral, or moonstone.
Very Berry
2 qts. elderberries 	2 cups brown sugar
2 qts. blackberries 	ginger and clove (opt.)
2 qts. water 	2 cups brandy
Directions: Place cleaned blackberries and elderberries together
in a large pot with water. Simmer over a low flame to extract
the juice, crushing and stirring regularly, for 30 minutes. Strain
off juice into another pot. Rewarm the liquid so that sugar can
be dissolved. Add any personally desired spices at this point
and boil for 15 minutes. Cool and add brandy before bottling.
Magickal Associations: Fertility, abundance, a libation for Pan,
connection to nature, health, and well-being.

113
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: Berries are associated with fertility because of
their abundance on bushes. Elderberries and blackberries fig-
ure heavily into folk remedies, the tree of the elder itself being
boasted as the only wood acceptable for Pan’s pipes.
Alternatives: The spices you choose to add to this recipe can
aid magickal applications. Nutmeg is one option for luck, or
allspice to accentuate the healthful aspects of this beverage.
Men’s Mead
1 qt. hickory nut leaves* 	1/2 qt. black walnut leaves
1 lb. almonds, crushed 	1 gal. water
4 lbs. honey 	1 lemon
1 orange 	1 Tbsp. almond extract
1/2 pkg. of yeast 	1/2 qt. oak leaves
*If unavailable, omit from the recipe and use a full quart of black walnut
leaves instead.
Directions: Be sure your leaves are fresh, with no signs of wilting
or infestations. Crush them by hand and place in a large pan with
almonds. In a separate container, warm water with honey and
fruit to a low rolling boil for 20 minutes, skimming. Add extract
and follow as with the basic recipe, aging wine for one year.
Magickal Associations: The God aspect and male virility.
History/Lore: The great oak is sacred to Ceres, Zeus, and the Dru-
ids of old. The nuts in this recipe represent male sexual organs.
Generative Eggnog
1 doz. eggs, separated 	nutmeg (garnish)
1 1/2 cups sugar 	1 qt. brandy
1 qt. light cream 	dash orange water
2 pints heavy cream, beaten
Directions: Beat the egg whites until stiff, then set aside. Next,
beat egg yokes, slowly adding sugar. Pour this mixture into a
large saucepan and heat until very warm, but not boiling. Stir
in the brandy, light cream, and orange water, pouring all into
the punch bowl. Fold in egg whites, then top with whipped
cream and a sprinkling of nutmeg.

114
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Generation, inception, creative energy,
fertility.
History/Lore: Eggs, being one of the oldest symbols of begin-
nings and reproduction (some even being credited with the birth
of gods) make this the perfect beverage for Eostre and many
Spring festivals.
Dried Fruit Tea
6 dried apricots 	1/2 cup dried apples
1/4 cup dried pears 	4 cups hot water
2 fruit tea bags (your choice)
Directions: While this tea must be prepared hot for proper fla-
voring to occur, it is delightful served warm or cold. Boil the
water to rolling, add the fruit and tea bags. Simmer for 15 min-
utes, then remove from the heat and strain. Sweeten as desired.
Magickal Associations: Preservation, sustenance, providence,
conservation.
History/Lore: Drying of food, perhaps best evidenced by dried
meats, has been a traditional means of conserving it for diffi-
cult times to many lands and time periods. In the magickal set-
ting, this association can be applied to any situation where you
need to provide and sustain specific energy.
Eostre Egg Bowl
12 eggs 	2 cups sugar
2 tsp. vanilla extract 	1-2 tsp. brandy extract
1 tsp. lemon juice 	1 tsp. orange juice
grated lemon peel 	grated orange peel
nutmeg (garnish)
Directions: In a double boiler, place your eggs and sugar, beat-
ing constantly until fluffy over low flame. Next, add extracts
and juices, continuing to beat until warm. To garnish, place a
dab of whipped cream on each cup and a sprinkle of lemon,
orange, and nutmeg on top.

115
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Fecundity, fertility, productivity.
History/Lore: The egg is a traditional symbol of Spring in that
even farmers mark the season by when their hens begin laying.
Many ancient myths use eggs as part of the creation story.
Bowl of Plenty
1/2 gal. apple cider 	1 cup whole strawberries
1 12-oz. can raspberry juice 	1/2 grapefruit, peeled
cinnamon to taste 	1 orange, sliced
ginger to taste 	1 cup whole cherries
1 cup blueberries 	1 thinly sliced lemon
ginger ale (optional)
Directions: Mix cider with undiluted raspberry juice and spices.
If you prefer, use whole cinnamon and gingerroot so spices can
be removed. Stir in fruit slices and chill. Add ginger ale just
before serving if desired.
Magickal Associations: Providence, prosperity.
History/Lore: Being representative of the bounty of Earth, this
makes an excellent beverage for rituals of thankfulness or
during holiday gatherings to bless all in attendance with good
fortune.
Couple’s Fertility
1 banana 	1 peach
1 cup milk 	2 Tbsp. heavy cream
1 tsp. almond extract 	1 tsp. vanilla extract
Directions: Dice the banana and place it in a blender with milk,
flavorings, and a skinned peach cut finely. Mix this until frothy.
Meanwhile, using a hand mixer or wire whisk, beat the heavy
cream until thick. Pour the juice into a tall glass, one inch at a
time, adding a layer of cream until topped off.
History/Lore: In this recipe, I have used the banana to repre-
sent the masculine energy, the peach for feminine, the milk for
maternity, almond for love, and a little vanilla to aid desire.

116
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Alternatives: At present this drink may be consumed by either
sex. You can, however, change the beverage slightly by elimi-
nating the banana for a woman and adding avocado instead.
For a man, delete the peach and add a mint leaf.
Prolific Licorice
2 Tbsp. licorice extract 	3 cups hot water
2 Tbsp. honey (or to taste) 	2 licorice twists (garnish)
Directions: Warm extract, water, and honey together until honey
is dissolved. Add more honey or extract to be personally pleas-
ing in taste. Follow general directions for freezing and serving,
placing one licorice twist in each glass before filling. Serves two
people.
Magickal Association: Providence, especially with regard to
essentials.
History/Lore: Bees were always considered messengers of the
Gods. When their product, honey, is combined with licorice,
which is believed to help relieve hunger, the message sent to
the universe is for immediate aid during times of severity.
G	G	G	G	G R	R	R	R	ROUNDING	OUNDING	OUNDING	OUNDING	OUNDING AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	F	F	F	F	F OUND	OUND	OUND	OUND	OUNDA	A	A	A	ATIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS
“Let us watch well our beginnings,
and results will manage themselves.”
—Alexander Clark
I am an avid fan of Thoreau, who taught us about putting
foundations under our “castles in the air.” Modern witches agree
that this is essential. We cannot lose touch with the real world
and our responsibilities therein if our spiritual awakening is to
have real meaning. If anything, a good part of magick is cen-
tered on being more aware of our surroundings, of others, of
the Earth, and of ourselves so that we can manifest the most
positive effective changes possible. These beverages are de-
signed to help build that awareness and those foundations.

117
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Additionally, after working magick, many people need to
“ground out.” If you think of magick like electricity, to keep
from getting shocked, it’s wise to have proper grounding. Simi-
larly, magick carries a lot of energy that can leave a person
spaced out and a little disconnected. Grounding beverages help
bring you back to earth and refocus your mind on the here-
and-now.
Some of the components used in grounding are exactly
what you might expect: root vegetables because of the sym-
bolic value inherent in having a deep connection to the earth.
Here are some others:
beans 	carrots 	potatoes
eggs 	grains 	turnips
garlic 	basil 	seeds
For timing, I’d suggest preparing these beverages during
the daytime to accentuate the role of the conscious, logical mind.
Make or serve this beverage from a squared off container (a
symbol of the Earth) or one that’s black like soil. For a crystal
tonic use obsidian.
Completion Cordial
1 qt. distilled beverage 	1/2 Tbsp. cumin seed
(your choice) 	1/2 Tbsp. aniseed
1/2 Tbsp. sesame seed 	1/2 Tbsp. angelica seed
1/2 Tbsp. caraway seed 	1/2 Tbsp. coriander seed
1/2 Tbsp. fennel seed 	1/4 cup hot water
3/4 cup sugar
Directions: Place your seeds together in a blender, food pro-
cessor, or mortar to grind them into a fine powder. Put these
in a large covered container with your chosen beverage. This
needs to age for 30 days.
After aging, take the sugar and dissolve in hot water. Care-
fully strain your seeded liquid into a different bottle, adding
the sugar mix. Shake well until incorporated. Rebottle and
age for another month before consuming.

118
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Thoroughness, finishing projects, cel-
ebrating variety.
History/Lore: The number seven (the number of seeds used for
this cordial) is one of completion. There are seven days in the
week, seven wonders in the world, and in the biblical account of
creation, it took seven days to form the Earth. Seven is also a
potent number for moon magicks and improved insight.
Alternatives: Vodka is a good choice for use as the distilled
beverage in this recipe; it has a neutral flavor that integrates
the herbs well. Any seed herb (like dill) can be substitute into
this recipe for another seed that you may not enjoy or just for
variety. Likewise, try changing the number of seeds to reflect
different magickal goals, such as five seeds for versatility and
awareness. Note: This may also be used for fertility for men
(seed representing the sperm).
Build from the Bottom Up!
1 pt. grenadine 	1 Tbsp. orange juice
1 pt. triple sec 	2 Tbsp. sugar
1 pt. creme de menthe 	2 pts. heavy cream
Directions: Pour the grenadine into a small punch bowl. If you
like, add some fruit in this layer (like cherries). Next, very slowly
pour the triple sec on top of the grenadine by touching the bottle
to the rim, and letting it seep down the side of the bowl. Fol-
low this procedure again with the creme de menthe, succeeded
by one pint of the heavy cream. Next, beat the remaining pint
of cream until thick and frothy, adding juice and sugar. Float
this carefully on top of the whole. The end result looks much
like a layered mountain with snow at the peak!
Magickal Associations: Fashioning foundations in the best pos-
sible way for long-lasting results.
History/Lore: It has been an adventurous pastime of many bar-
tenders to learn techniques of layering liqueurs. This particu-
lar punch bowl only looks pretty until you serve out of it, when
the layers get blended.

119
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Wishes Are Brewing
1/2 cup heavy cream 	4 cups water
1 tsp. vanilla extract 	2 Tbsp. dark roast coffee
1 egg white 	1 tsp. ground dandelion root
1 Tbsp. sugar 	1/2 tsp. ginseng
Directions: Mix your coffee with finely ground dandelion root
and the ginseng, then place in pot to brew with water. While
this drips, beat your heavy cream and egg white on high until
peaks begin to form. Add extract and sugar at this time, placing
a hefty portion into each serving cup. Pour the coffee into the
cup by slowly letting it slip down the sides. This allows some
cream to mix in and the rest to remain on top like mountain
peeks.
Magickal Associations: Putting foundations under goals and as-
pirations; hope and fancy.
History/Lore: Ginseng roots, besides being regarded as a tonic,
were sometimes carved or tossed into running water to help
bring wishes into reality. Dandelion is similarly regarded, its
ground roots often acting as a coffee substitute.
Slavic Bread Wine
1/2 lb. dark rye bread 	1/2 lb. barley
2 large apples 	1 gal. water
1/2 cup raisins 	3 Tbsp. dry active yeast
2 cups brown sugar 	1/2 cup mincemeat
Directions: Slice and toast rye bread, then set aside. Meanwhile,
boil the water in a large pot with apples that have been peeled
and diced, for 30 minutes. Remove this from the heat, adding
toasted rye pieces and barley that need to soak for four hours.
Strain thoroughly. Dissolve yeast in warm water, adding this
to the juice along with minced meat. Follow as with basic recipe,
pouring into a gallon jug with raisins and setting in a cool area
to ferment for one week. Strain again and chill for use.
Magickal Associations: Grounding out excess energy. Good
wishes, comfort of hearth and home, lifting burdens.

120
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
History/Lore: Known by the local name of kvass, this wine’s
title literally translates to mean “leaven.” Because kvass is only
mildly alcoholic, it was often part of the meal table and con-
sidered quite healthy.
Earth Beer
6 apples, baked till soft 	1/2 cup brown sugar
1 tsp. nutmeg 	1 tsp. ginger
5 cups hot non-alcoholic beer or apple wine
Directions: Peel the apples, mashing the fruit with brown sugar
and spices (more sweetening may be added, if desired). Mix
this with ale or wine and enjoy as a liquid dessert!
Magickal Associations: Earth magick, wisdom, ecology. Connect-
ing with the Earth element.
History/Lore: In certain parts of Europe, a version of this drink
was often served on August 1 (Lammas Tide) to honor the spiri-
tual protector who presides over fruit, seeds, and Earth’s bounty.
Not surprisingly, Lammas was sometimes referred to as “the
day of the apple fruit.”
Turtle Tenacity
1 pt. butter-toffee ice cream 	1 1/2 cups milk
1 Tbsp. hot fudge sauce 	1 Tbsp. hot caramel sauce
nuts (garnish)
Directions: The ability to create a strong foundation is usually a
function of the conscious mind, so allow the ice cream to get
soft in the light of the sun. Pour this into a blender with the
milk and sauce on medium speed, beating until frothy. Garnish
with nuts of your choice.
Magickal Associations: Structure, boldness, assertive speech,
self-assurance, building confidence.
History/Lore: While I am playing on a pun for a popular candy
here, the symbolism of the turtle is no less important to this
beverage. Visualize yourself like a great sea tortoise, slowly but
powerfully emerging from your shell while drinking.

121
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Baked Potato Pie
2 baked potatoes, peeled 	1 large onion
2 scallions with tops 	2 cloves garlic
1 cup skim milk 	salt and pepper to taste
Directions: Once your potatoes are baked and peeled, you can
follow the basic recipe for juicing. This is best enjoyed without
straining and has a consistency like mashed potatoes or cream
of potato soup.
Magickal Associations: Establishing healthy beginnings and
strong foundations; Earth magick.
History/Lore: Potatoes, being a root plant, help us connect more
directly with Gaia energies. Carry one with you into circle when
working Earth Magick and hold it in your palms as a focus.
Financial Foundations
1 cup currants, juiced 	1 cup cherries, juiced
1 cup blackberries, juiced 	1 Tbsp. honey
1 orange, juiced 	1 bundle of grapes
2 cups apple juice
Directions: Place all ingredients after juice extraction into a
blender and mix at high speed until bubbly. Leave in a glass
with the grapes hinged on the side.
History/Lore: Most of the fruits chosen for this drink are con-
nected with building financial security; however, the energy
can be put towards other areas of your life where some opu-
lence is needed, like creativity.
Security’s Simmering
1/2 cup plain yogurt 	1 tsp sugar
1/2 cup chocolate milk 	1 tsp. mint extract
Directions: This is a wonderful beverage that tastes akin to the
Girl Scout thin mints. Place the first four ingredients in a blender
(or use a hand beater) to mix thoroughly. Garnish with a Girl
Scout cookie of your choice.

122
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Resilience, stability, security. Energy
for good deeds.
History/Lore: Minthe was once a nymph changed into this in-
destructible ground plant by Persephone. Mint is sacred to
Aphrodite, and it is also considered a good herb for protec-
tion and prosperity.
H	H	H	H	H APPINESS	APPINESS	APPINESS	APPINESS	APPINESS
“It’s a wine of virtuous powers,
my mother made it out of wildflowers.”
—Samuel T. Coleridge
Next to good health, happiness is among the qualities that
many people seek to fill out the corners of their lives. Witches
are no different. We want a joyful existence. It is certainly not
selfish to use our magick as a means of attracting and mani-
festing that joy. Why not? Because a happy person is also one
much more able to give of themselves. And, actually, happi-
ness tends to be very contagious!
Some of the traditional components that promote cheer
and delight include:
basil 	blue juices 	bubbly liquids
catnip 	chocolate 	daisy
dandelion 	marjoram 	mint
orange 	rose 	thyme
vanilla 	wine 	lavender
berries 	apple 	cherry
honey 	apricot 	lemon
cloves
In terms of timing these beverages, don’t work on cloudy
or gray days. Joy is sunny in its disposition—no dark clouds
allowed! Think in terms of brightly colored juices that are as

123
T h e 	R e c i p e s
light and radiant as you wish your mood to be! As for crystal
tinctures, turn to cat’s eye and gold.
Joyful Ale
1 lb. sweet cherries 	4 cups sugar
10 whole cloves 	3 qts. strong ale
Directions: Prick cherries with a toothpick on all sides, then
place them in a gallon container with a lid. An excellent choice
is a container made of wood or earthenware. Sprinkle the sugar
over top of these, add the cloves, then fill with the ale. Cover
loosely as fermentation should begin within 48 hours. When
the rapid bubbling has ceased, strain, cork, and store for six
months to a year before drinking. The remaining cherries make
marvelous pies and conserves.
Magickal Associations: Clear vision, unhindered joys.
History/Lore: Cloves appeared in Europe between 4 and 6 C.E
There, they remained mostly a culinary herb, but modern magickal
practitioners often view them as protective, cleansing, and an aid
to psychic sight. Cherries always engender thoughts of clear Spring
days and happy children playing outside.
Alternatives: One very tasty alternative is strawberries mixed
with a stout beer to strengthen love.
Pineapple Pleasure
1/2 gal. water 	3 16-oz. jars pineapple chunks
1 orange 	(in juice)
4 lbs. honey (orange blossom) 1/2 gal. pineapple juice
1/2 pkg. of yeast
Directions: Place pineapple chunks (juice and all) in a large pan
with the water, sliced orange, and honey. Bring to a low rolling
boil for 30 to 40 minutes, skimming any residue off the top,
then add pineapple juice reducing heat to a simmer for 10 more
minutes. Cool, then follow directions for yeast and bottling given
in basic recipe. Aging time after final corking is about six to
eight months for a sweet wine; one year for dry.

124
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Happy celebrations, hospitality, joyful
meetings or discoveries.
History/Lore: As a fruit native to tropical Americas, the pine-
apple was unknown until the New World was discovered, going
by the native name “nana,” which translates to mean “fra-
grance.” Slowly images of the pineapple worked themselves into
all manner of American furniture, architecture, etc. as an em-
blem of pleasant welcome.
Wine and Song
1/2 qt. strawberries hulled 	1 cup sugar
3 sliced peaches 	1/2 gal. sangria
2 cups fresh diced pineapple 	1 bottle champagne
Directions: Put both the fruit and sugar in a large bowl, stirring
to cover the fruit well. Crush half of the fruit while you blend,
then let this sit for one hour to produce juice. Next, add the
sangria and champagne (both chilled), adding ice just before
serving. Makes just under one gallon.
Magickal Associations: Joyful celebrations, cessation of cares and
worries, positive exchange between new companions.
History/Lore: In the late 1600s, when sailing voyage was popu-
lar, some sailors who landed in India got quite a surprise. They
were greeted with a fruity liquid mixed with spirits that was very
refreshing. The potency, however, was deceptive and the crew
quickly found themselves intoxicated and quite giddy to the
point of spontaneous song.
Vostorg
1 cup cognac 	2 Tbsp. cherry liquor
1 tsp. lemon juice 	2 cherries (garnish)
3 or 4 ice cubes
Directions: Depending on personal preference, this cordial can
be prepared one of two ways. First is to place all the ingredi-
ents except cherries in a blender for a whipped, icy beverage

125
T h e 	R e c i p e s
topped with whole cherries. Second is to simply place the com-
ponents in a shaker and serve over ice.
Magickal Associations: One-world perspectives, pleasure, hap-
piness, broadening outlooks.
History/Lore: Coming to us from Russia, this beverage’s name
translates as meaning “delight.”
Alternatives: One especially nice touch with this drink is to add
a fresh, white gardenia as garnish to encourage peace.
Beneficent Balm Blend
1 1/2 qt. balm leaves 	2 gal. water
1 1/2 qts. elderberries, pressed 	4 1/2 lbs. sugar
1 1/2 qts. raspberries, pressed 	1 pkg. wine yeast
Directions: Place the herbs and fruit in the water in a large pan
over medium heat. Press the berries regularly to extract as much
juice as possible. After about 30 minutes, add sugar, stirring
until dissolved. Continue cooking for another half hour. Turn
off heat and cool to lukewarm. Strain well. In a small container,
mix yeast with a half cup of warm water, stirring once. Let sit
for 15 minutes, then add to lukewarm fruit juice. Cover the
pan with a towel for 24 hours, then strain again into a loosely
covered container. Watch the wine for signs that fermenta-
tion is finishing (namely a decrease in bubbles). Strain once
more, then bottle and rack. Age eight months.
Magickal Associations: Lifting heavy spirits, amiableness, cheer-
ful countenance.
History/Lore: Arabic tales suggest that balm has the remark-
able ability to make an individual more agreeable and easier to
love. Beyond this, it was a favored herb for fevers, headache,
and cooking, its minty-lemon scent generally improving sad
spirits. Elder is mentioned in medicinal texts as early as Egypt,
most poplar at the turn of the century for throat infections.
Raspberry brings a soothing effect to blend the lot together.

126
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Happiness Wine
3 qts. strawberries 	1/4” gingerroot
3 large seedless oranges 	1 gal. water
3 lbs. sugar 	1/3 pkg. yeast
Directions: Hull strawberries and peel all but one of the oranges.
Slice the strawberries and oranges into your brew pot, then fol-
low basic recipe. Extra straining may be required.
Magickal Associations: Revitalization, health, happiness.
History/Lore: In the East, the orange is an emblem of satisfac-
tion and pleasure.
Black Currant Cheer
1 qt. raspberry juice 	1/3 lb. budding black currant
sugar to taste 	shoots
Directions: Warm raspberry juice over low flame, allowing cur-
rant buds to simmer for about 20 minutes. Remove from heat
and cool. Strain, tasting for personally desired sweetness, then
enjoy!
Magickal Associations: Joy, relief from depression, sympathy,
charity.
History/Lore: Currants get their name from Corinth, Greece,
where they were first discovered. In the language of flowers
they mean, “your frown will kill me.” Raspberry branches have
been regarded as protective (due to thorns), while the fruit
itself is one of happiness.
Celebration Jubilation
1 qt. ginger ale 	2 cups sugar
1 qt. soda water 	1 cup lemon juice
1 qt. white grape juice 	1 cup raspberries
2 cups apricot juice 	borage flowers
Directions: Mix together your sodas and juices, slowly adding
sugar until the taste is pleasing. Float whole raspberries on top
of the punch and chill. Place borage around the edge of the
punch bowl before serving.

127
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Jubilee, merry-making, glad tidings.
History/Lore: Sparkling waters have long been used in various
forms of celebration and were even considered lucky. Rasp-
berry is added for pleasure and borage flowers for joy.
Coffee Contentment
6 eggs 	grated lemon peel
1/2 cup sugar 	3 cups strong fruity coffee
1/2 cup apple juice 	1 Tbsp. brandy flavoring
Directions: Beat eggs until frothy, then slowly add grated peel
from one lemon and sugar until thick. Set aside while you mix
together the remaining ingredients. Fold this into the egg mix-
ture very slowly. Serve in chilled glasses.
Magickal Associations: Joyful gatherings, sojourns to see friends
and family.
History/Lore: A version of this recipe is often served at Yule
festivities in Denmark.
Alternatives: For abundantly happy energy, choose a raspberry
coffee base and use strawberry syrup in place of sugar to taste.
H	H	H	H	H EAL	EAL	EAL	EAL	EALTH	TH	TH	TH	TH
“Good health and good sense
are two of life’s greatest blessings”
—Publilius Syrus
Folk remedials used beverages as their base for thousands
of years. For proof we need look no further than the Roman
battlefield, the Celtic hearth, and Greek curatives. In these lo-
cations and many more, physicians used liqueurs laced with
herbs to ease the pain of wounds, and nearly every other imag-
inable illness. In Greek writings, specifically those of Athenaeus,
we find a cure for hangovers that consists of cabbage water and

128
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
a good nap, while Proverbs tells us that we should “give strong
drink to him that is ready to perish and wine to those that be of
heavy hearts (31:4)!”
Many of these beverage recipes were called physics or
simples, the latter name coming from the simple, yet time-
honored nature of the cure. A goodly number of the recipes
included magickal methods in the instructions, including what
day of the week to harvest the herbs and when to prepare and
administer the prescription! So while the ancient healers were
depending on a sound body of herbal knowledge to cure, they
also remembered that patients were spiritual beings too—and
that the spirit needed tending as much as the body.
This is a very good lesson for modern Witches to remember
in their own healing beverages. We should look to accredited
herbalists advice on what best to include, but not overlook
common sense, medical knowledge, and our spiritual self for
assistance either.
Bear in mind as you read these recipes that specific condi-
tions (like a cold or flu) will have specific herbs that have been
shown effective against them. So the list that follows only in-
cludes the ingredients that are magickally active for promot-
ing health and wellness:
almond 	apple 	ginger
lavender 	lettuce 	marjoram
mead 	milk 	nutmeg
rosemary 	Sage 	Water
wine 	green juices
In terms of timing you have some flexibility here. A bever-
age aimed at maintaining health might be best made during the
waxing moon, whereas one aimed at banishing an existing prob-
lem would be made during the waning moon. For crystal tonics
turn to agate, carnelian, holy stones, and quartz.

129
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Spice-Away Sickness
1 cup dried french lavender 	1" minced gingerroot
1 - 1" cinnamon stick 	4 whole allspice berries
4 whole cloves 	1 tsp. nutmeg
1 qt. water 	pinch sage
1 qt. brandy 	1 cup raisins
2 cups honey 	2 Tbsp. rose water
Directions: All dry ingredients except the raisins should be
ground finely, then put into a large container with honey, rai-
sins, and rose water. The brandy is then poured over the entire
mixture. Cover this container well, and allow it to sit in the sun
(or a warm area) for 20 days, shaking regularly. Strain thor-
oughly, rebottling the clear fluid for use. Store in cool, dark
area.
Magickal Associations: Strength, vitality, recuperative powers,
the spirit of life.
History/Lore: This recipe is a version of a Medieval Aqua Vitae
that knights often drank before battle. It was also frequently
given to those presumed to be dead, with the belief that such a
potent combination of healthful herbs might restore breath and
vitality.
Wellness Blend
9 cored apples (small) 	dash nutmeg
1 cup packed brown sugar 	12 whole cloves
1 1/2 qts. dark ale 	3 eggs separated
1/2" gingerroot, sliced
Directions: Roll the apples in the brown sugar. Place these in a
375-degree oven for 40 minutes. Meanwhile, warm the ale with
ginger and other spices. Separately, beat egg whites and egg
yolks until thickened, then fold them together, slowly pouring
this mixture into the ale, beating with a wire whisk quickly as
you go. Pour the entire mixture over the roasted apple. Makes
enough for six to eight people.

130
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Health, well-being, good wishes, and
fruitfulness.
History/Lore: A version of the Anglo-Saxon treat, Wassail,
which literally translates to “be well,” this beverage found it-
self consumed throughout the Yule season.
Sniffle Stopper
1/2 cup whiskey 	dash ginger
1/2 cup warm water 	1 to 2 Tbsp. honey
2 to 3 eucalyptus leaves 	1 Tbs. fresh lemon juice
1 Tbsp. fresh orange juice
Directions: Heat the water until almost boiling with the euca-
lyptus leaves in it. Remove the leaves, then add all remaining
ingredients, drinking before bedtime. The remedial value of
this beverage can be accentuated magickally by working during
a waning moon, so the sickness will likewise shrink.
Magickal Associations Return to health and well-being (more
on the physical level than emotional or spiritual).
History/Lore: This recipe comes from my own “backyard,” so
to speak, where I have tried to combine the best herbal de-
congestant with other healthful fruits for best results. I have
found this drink helps improve sleep and breathing during cold
and flu season.
Spicy Orange Fitness
1 qt. mulled mead 	2 qts. orange pekoe tea
1 cup orange juice 	1 sliced lemon
1 sliced orange 	1/2 cup honey (to taste)
6 pieces cinnamon stick 	6 whole cloves
Directions: Make your tea and pour it hot into a large container
with the cinnamon stick pieces (one inch each is good), cloves,
and honey. Likewise warm the mead and orange juice together,
and add this to the tea blend mixing thoroughly. Serve hot with
a slice of orange and lemon in each cup.

131
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Health and well-being, vitality, return
of physical balance.
History/Lore: The Portuguese believe that the original orange
tree transplanted from China to Europe, and which birthed all
other orange bearing trees, still lives quite heartily today in
Lisbon.
Alternatives: Try an apple-spice tea with apple juice in this recipe
in place of the orange for similar and very tasty magickal results.
Cold Tonic
1/2 gal. boiling water 	10 eucalyptus leaves
1/2 tsp. sage 	1/2 tsp. rosemary
1/2 tsp. anise 	1/2 tsp. thyme
1/2 tsp. valerian 	1/2 tsp. comfrey
1/2 tsp. gingerroot, bruised 	1/2 tsp. yarrow buds
1 tsp. chamomile 	5 to 10 fresh mint leaves
lemon rind 	orange rind
1 bay leaf
Directions: This mixture is best steeped for one hour then
strained. Stir counterclockwise to banish illness. I do not rec-
ommend drinking it cold as the eucalyptus is far more effective
warm.
Magickal Associations: Easing rough nerves, rest, cleansing,
amulet creation, prophecy, calm understanding.
History/Lore: Tried and true from my own household, this keeps
well in an airtight jar in the refrigerator and also eases asthma.
Magickally, bay leaves were sometimes used to write spells on
and were often employed in the preparation of amulets.
Elixir of Health
1 cup pineapple juice 	watercress (optional)
1/2 cup cucumber peeled 	crushed ice
and seeded 	1 sprig parsley
Directions: Use general directions given for juicing.

132
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: General well-being, physical fitness, and
protection of one’s vitality.
History/Lore: Because of its spiny exterior and cutting flavor,
pineapple is regarded as a shielding fruit. Cucumber peels have
long been recommended by folk healers to relieve headaches,
and the decorative sprig of parsley on our plates dates back
to Roman superstition about it keeping the food safe from
contamination.
Hale and Hardy Cider
Directions: Cider is unique among fermented beverages in that
it contains one ingredient... in this case, apples. Depending on
the type you choose, the amount of cider you have once fin-
ished will vary. The best ciders are made from a variety of apples,
rich in juice, including Macintosh, Delicious, Granny Smith,
and Crab apples.
To prepare, clean and chop your fruit, putting it through a
juicer, blender, or even a food grinder to release the internal
juices. Then you will need to strain several times, pressing with
the back of a wooden spoon to express as much liquid as pos-
sible from your chosen batch of apples.
Once you have it as clear as possible, place in a glass jar
or wooden barrel tightly stopped. Check this twice a week
(kept in a cool area) for signs of fermentation. Once it has
reached a personally pleasing level of natural carbonation,
turn the liquid to a large pot on the stove and warm to just
under the boiling point. Cool and store. The cider in this form
can be kept longer without risk of turning to vinegar. It may
also be spiced and served hot or cold.
Magickal Associations: Continual good health and wisdom; re-
freshment, rejuvenation.
History/Lore: While we have all heard the saying about an apple
a day, the best season to drink hard cider for well-being has al-
ways been regarded as the harvest. This is probably attributable

133
T h e 	R e c i p e s
to the abundance of the fruit during that season. Warmed with
spices, this is thought to be a good restorative for energy and a
way to ease fevers.
Emotional Healing Brew
1 pot extra strong coffee 	whipped cream
1 whole orange, seeded 	whole almonds
1 cup orange juice 	3/4 to 1 cup sugar syrup
1 cup slivered almonds
Directions: Blend together your hot coffee, orange, and juice
with sugar until frothy. Freeze as per directions for frappes.
When flaking with the fork, mix in slivered almonds. Garnish
with almond- or orange-flavored whipped cream and two whole
nuts.
Magickal Associations: Energy for healing relationships of any
nature and emotional wounds.
History/Lore: Almonds have been used readily in early medi-
cine for insomnia and headaches. Oranges are a love fruit, their
blossoms often being carried by brides at ancient weddings.
Coffee adds active energy to this beverage-spell.
Sweet Health
1 cup orange juice 	1 Tbsp. rosemary
1 tsp. vanilla 	2 Tbsp. whipped cream
1 slice of orange (garnish)
Directions: Make a warm tea of the orange juice, rosemary, and
vanilla, then strain. Serve slightly warm with one tablespoon
of whipped cream blended in and one on top for garnish with
a slice of fresh orange.
History/Lore: While many people think of rosemary only in terms
of remembrance, in the Middle Ages it was lauded as having
many restorative qualities for health. The high content of vita-
min C in oranges aids this feature.

134
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
IIIII NSPIRA	NSPIRA	NSPIRA	NSPIRA	NSPIRATION	TION	TION	TION	TION 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	C	C	C	C	C REA	REA	REA	REA	REATIVITY	TIVITY	TIVITY	TIVITY	TIVITY
“Poets are the hierophants of an unapprehended inspiration;
the mirrors of the gigantic shadows
which futurity casts upon the present.”
—Percy Shelley
Magick has a kind of poetry to it, in the way it goes to-
gether, in the invocations and spells. And modern Witches
are the poets who use inspiration, creativity, and imagination
to create new forms of magick suited to our ever-changing
world. If the metaphysical arts become stagnant, the positive
energy they can create dies. By its very definition magick is to
change, and therefore we must use a little creativity to keep
up with that transformation process.
But what happens when you go to inspiration’s well and
find it wanting? You’ve scanned dozens of books, talked to vari-
ous people, and just can’t seem to find something that moti-
vates invention. That’s when you need to quaff a few beverages
that can provide the internal nudge you’re lacking.
Some of the ingredients recommended for creativity are:
allspice 	honey 	mead
water 	yellow beverages 	wine
almond 	dandelion 	lavender
maple flavoring 	mint 	sage
pomegranate juice
Make these when the moon is full, and drink them from a
silver-toned cup. For crystal tinctures use green or clear quartz.
Death by Chocolate
1 scoop chocolate fudge 	1 cup chocolate yogurt
ice cream 	1/4 cup chocolate chips
1 cup chocolate milk 	swirl chocolate syrup (garnish)
Directions: Place all ingredients except syrup into a blender on
low speed for about 2 to 3 minutes. Add more milk if it is too

135
T h e 	R e c i p e s
thick. Beat on medium for another two minutes. Pour into a
large glass, swirling a little chocolate syrup on top. Sit down
and pat yourself on the back for just being a unique person,
and enjoy!
Magickal Associations: Inspiration when it’s lacking. Self-love
and pampering, sweet things in life, simple luxuries.
History/Lore: There is very strong scientific evidence to suggest
that chocoholics actually do receive a kind of unique pleasure
and motivation from eating this substance.
Inventive Petals
1 qt. warm apple wine 	1/2 cup woodruff flowers
or hard cider 	freshly picked
2 oz. sugar or honey 	1/4 pt. water
stick cinnamon 	1 orange, sliced
1 lemon, sliced
Directions: Allow the woodruff to set in room-temperature
wine or cider for a half hour, then remove. To this add sugar
and water. Pour into punch bowl, garnishing with sliced fruit
and cinnamon stick. May be served hot, if desired.
Magickal Associations: Woodruff as a traditional May flower
brings with it the refreshing inspiration of Spring, especially
for new projects. Apple adds wisdom to that creative spark.
History/Lore: Germans call this lovely white blossom the mas-
ter of the woods. Its white petals are considered sacred to the
Goddess. Magickally, woodruff is used to protect against nega-
tive energies that could cause creative blockage.
One for the Noggin’
5 egg yolks 	1 qt. milk
8 Tbsp. sugar 	1 1/2 cups cognac
1 1/2 tsp. vanilla extract 	nutmeg
2 drops yellow food color
Directions: Beat egg yokes with sugar until well incorporated.
Next, add the vanilla with the milk, which has been heated to

136
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
very hot. Stir in cognac, food color, and a dash of nutmeg, and
then pour into the punch bowl. If possible, serve in yellow cups.
Magickal Associations: Creativity, imagination.
History/Lore: This version of eggnog was popular in the 17th
century throughout France. It is a wonderful golden color, bring-
ing a little solar warmth to any Winter celebration.
Enlivening Fires
2 large tomatoes 	2 cloves garlic
2 red peppers 	1 cup chopped red cabbage
1 tsp. lime juice 	1 tsp. hot sauce
rosemary (garnish)
Directions: Follow the directions given for juicing. Please note,
however, that hot sauce may be increased or decreased ac-
cording to your tolerance. A fresh sprig of rosemary is placed
in each glass.
Magickal Association: Creative motivation (putting a fire under
a project); Fire magick, drastic change, the energy of the Phoe-
nix, purification.
History/Lore: The traditional herbs, plants, and colors of Fire
combine in this drink to quite literally spark your creative source
from inside out! An appropriate beverage for Beltane and many
Summer observances.
Winds of Inspiration
4 lemons, juiced 	1 egg
1 tsp. vanilla 	2 bananas, mashed
2 scoops of lemon sherbet 	1 star fruit, sliced
1 cup heavy cream 	3/4 cup sugar syrup
Directions: Place lemon juice, vanilla, and sherbet in a pan to
warm. Meanwhile, beat cream until fluffy. Slowly mix this with
the warm liquid, adding your sugar and a beaten egg. Freeze
at this point, moving the frozen crushed beverage to the

137
T h e 	R e c i p e s
blender with the bananas. Pour from the blender into glasses
decorated with star fruit. Serves two.
Magickal Associations: Divination, prophesy, creativity, and any
Air-related magick.
History/Lore: Yellow is associated with the energy of Inventive-
ness and the Air element allowing our dreams to take flight.
Additionally bananas are for fertility of efforts and lemon for
clarity in goals. The star fruit is a wonderful addition here, al-
ready bearing the shape of the magickal pentagram.
Pomegranate Notions
2 cups pomegranate seeds, 	1 cup ginger ale or soda
juiced 	dash ginger
dash cinnamon 	1 lemon balm leaf (garnish)
Directions: Juice the pomegranate seeds by placing them in a
bowl and pressing with the back of a spoon. Strain this off, add-
ing it to your ginger ale with the spices sprinkled on top and the
leaf hinged on the edge of your serving glass.
History/Lore: Pomegranate encourages fertile ideas, while both
ginger and cinnamon add energy for achievement. The car-
bonated soda is for effervescence!
K	K	K	K	K INSHIP	INSHIP	INSHIP	INSHIP	INSHIP , 	U	, 	U	, 	U	, 	U	, 	U NITY	NITY	NITY	NITY	NITY , 	F	, 	F	, 	F	, 	F	, 	F RIENDSHIP	RIENDSHIP	RIENDSHIP	RIENDSHIP	RIENDSHIP
“While wine and friendship crown the board,
we’ll sing the joys they both afford”
—John Dryden
There is little in life that does not benefit from having
good friends, a harmonious home, and unified groups. We deal
so much with group dynamics these days—at the office, in our
covens, and even in our families—that having magickal meth-
ods to help keep these settings tranquil is a great blessing. Bever-
ages are certainly one means to that end.

138
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Consider for a moment the symbolism of a single cup
shared among people and the trust it implies. This symbolism
is very ancient and has appeared in many different cultural
settings, so it gives us pause to understand that the unity is, in
part, an act of acceptance. When we drink from the cup, we
accept the energy of the beverage into ourselves, and we ac-
cept the gesture offered from another. Please keep this in mind
when you prepare and drink the beverages in this chapter.
Some of the ingredients noted for kinship, friendship, and
unity include:
lemon 	yellow beverages 	rose
wine 	passion fruit 	basil
lilac 	gardenia (garnish) almond
anise 	plum 	balm
clove 	cinnamon
The timing for these beverages depends a lot on your per-
spectives. I feel that both solar and lunar energies would ben-
efit them because one helps us think clearly, and the other helps
us feel. Trust your instincts. For crystal elixirs, turn to geodes
and loadstone.
Plum Unity
1 qt. brandy or vodka 	1 lb. ripe plums
2 cups sugar
Directions: Place all your ingredients together in a large crock,
well sealed. Shake daily for eight weeks. Strain the liquid off
into bottles, which should be sealed and aged six months be-
fore consumption. The fruit may be used for tarts, pies, or a
spiked dessert with cream garnish after straining.
Magickal Associations: Safety and open discourse among family
and friends; kinship.
History/Lore: This cordial comes to us from the Ukraine, where
it is a favored beverage on cold nights with family or friends. Bits
of the plum tree were sometimes used as protection to rural

139
T h e 	R e c i p e s
homes, by hanging the branches on the entryway so no avarice
could come between those within.
Melodious Mint
1 qt. packed balm leaves 	1 qt. packed mint leaves
8 cloves 	1" piece vanilla bean
(the number of completion) 	2 lbs. dark honey
1 gal. water 	1/2 pkg. yeast
Directions: In one pan crush the balm and mint leaves. In an-
other, bring the water to a boil and pour over top the herbs.
Let this mixture stand for one day, then strain, squeezing ex-
cess juice from the leaves. Place this liquid over a low flame,
adding vanilla bean and honey. Stir until the honey is dissolved,
continuing to warm for about 30 minutes, skimming any resi-
due from the top. Cool the liquid to lukewarm, and then follow
the remainder of directions from the basic recipe.
Magickal Associations: Friendship, happiness, amicable feelings.
History/Lore: Mint is the herb of wisdom, being considered help-
ful in improving spirits. The Israelites were known to cover the
floors of their temples and homes with mint leaves to welcome
and refresh honored guests. Balm is very compatible to this
energy, helping to make people more agreeable and joyous.
Persians used cloves to rekindle the fires of a relationship
gone cold, often mixed with rose water and a bit of prayer from
the Koran. The potent flavor and scent of the clove has also
given it associations with energy for protection, perhaps best
directed towards relationships.
Warm Up to Someone
1 gal. water 	3 lbs. clover honey
3 oz. fresh gingerroot, bruised 2 lemons
1 orange 	1 cup raisins
1/2 pkg. yeast 	2 large cinnamon sticks (broken)
Directions: Dissolve the honey in warm water, adding the gin-
gerroot (cut up), cinnamon, and raisins. Bring this to a boil

140
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
for one hour, then strain liquid into a separate container. Peel
the lemons and orange, squeezing their juice into the container
with the gingered water and add the rinds. Dissolve the yeast in
warm water then add, stirring well. Follow as per basic recipe,
allowing mead to age eight months to a year before use.
Magickal Associations: Sympathy, cordial feelings, affection,
health.
History/Lore: This is similar to an Irish beverage that adds nut-
meg and spirits to the recipe, called Usquebaugh, and is used
to warm chilled bones.
Sympathetic Sangria
2 pts. strong tea 	4 whole cloves
4 Tbsp. orange juice 	1 slice lemon rind
4 Tbsp. sugar 	1 pt. sangria
1 stick cinnamon 	1 sliced orange
Directions: Heat your ingredients together, except for the or-
ange slices. Once warmed to a tea-like consistency, pour into a
punch bowl and garnish with oranges. Or, you may chill first,
and then serve cold.
Magickal Associations: Kinship, leisurely pursuits, and friendly
conversation.
History/Lore: Both wine and tea have a cordial, comfortable
appeal, making this a very relaxing beverage perfect for quiet
afternoons with friends. This drink has the additional benefit
of clearing the throat during allergy season.
Fruity Kinship
2 qts. fresh strawberries 	8 cups sugar
4 pink grapefruit (large) 	1 slice lemon
1 lb. seedless raisins 	1/3 pkg. wine yeast
1 black tea bag
Directions: Juice your grapefruit, extracting as much liquid as
possible. Place this in a large container with raisins and water,

141
T h e 	R e c i p e s
and then leave overnight in a warm area. Move this kettle to
the stove, adding strawberries, the tea bag, sugar, and lemon.
Follow basic cooking recipe for wine except that you should
allow cloth-covered fermentation for six days before straining
off berries and raisins. This will allow a fuller-flavored wine.
After first fermentation, wine should be allowed to set for
four months before another straining, then aged an additional
six months before serving.
Magickal Associations: Kinship, leisure, and positive attitudes.
History/Lore: While strawberries are a traditional love fruit, the
light pink coloration of this wine turns its energy more towards
matters of friendship and simple pleasures.
Herbal Harmony
1/4 cup french lavender dried 3 leaves fresh mint
3 to 4 allspice beads 	1/4 tsp. thyme
1/4 tsp. angelica root 	1/2 lemon rind
1/4 tsp. sage 	1 gal. basic recipe
Directions: Follow the basic recipe, adding herbs after the boil-
ing process to create a tea. Lemon rind may require the use of
additional sweetener.
Magickal Associations: Accord, agreement, unity.
History/Lore: Lavender and mint are employed here to promote
happiness and harmony. The next two components are for heal-
ing. Angelica will aid in dispersing negativity, lemon to build-
ing friendships, and sage is for wisdom.
Alternative: Where a tremendous amount of discernment is re-
quired, add a cup of freshly diced peaches to the mixture. If
this is going to be consumed in a group setting, I suggest adding
one allspice bead or mint leaf to represent each person to the
pot. This way, their desire to become unified is literally cooked
right into the brew! In this case, lavender can be regarded as an
optional ingredient.

142
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Loving Cup
4 cups apple cider 	4 whole cloves
2 cinnamon sticks 	1 cup raisins
1/2 cup blanched almonds 	sugar or honey
Directions: Warm the cider over low flame with other ingredi-
ents incorporated. Once sugar or honey is dissolved, this is ready
to serve. If desired, the beverage may be chilled or even en-
joyed as a frappe. You can leave spices in or strain, depending
on what is most personally pleasing.
Magickal Associations: Warm feelings, kinship, and the love of
friends.
History/Lore: A favorite Swedish drink during Winter celebra-
tions, this glogg may be enjoyed hot or cold. For a special treat,
roll the almonds after cooking in a bit of honey and offer them
to someone special to spark some romance.
Tea Wine
20 Earl Grey tea bags 	1 tsp. lemon juice
1 orange sliced 	2 lbs. sugar
1/2" gingerroot bruised 	1 gal. water
1/3 pkg. yeast
Directions: Steep the tea bags in the boiled water overnight.
Remove and press any liquid out that you can. Place this con-
tainer back on the stove, adding the remaining ingredients ex-
cept yeast. Remove citrus fruit once the tea is cooled to
lukewarm, and then follow basic recipe for wine. This yields a
dry wine that has a flavor similar to sun tea.
Magickal Associations: Friendly conversation, relaxation, social
gatherings.
History/Lore: One legend has it that the Emperor She Nudge
(also known as a great healer) invented hot tea when some
nearby leaves accidentally fell into a pot of water he was boil-
ing for consumption around 2700 B.C.E.

143
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Alternative: After your initial straining of this beverage, place
in a glass container with a screw top. Leave the top loose for
several days while the wine works (bubbles will appear in one-
quarter inch thickness on top of the liquid). When the bubbles
almost disappear, turn the top tightly and leave for 24 hours
then refrigerate. This yields almost a soda pop-like wine with
very little alcohol.
L	L	L	L	L OVE	OVE	OVE	OVE	OVE AND	AND	AND	AND	AND R	R	R	R	R OMANCE	OMANCE	OMANCE	OMANCE	OMANCE
“God made man frail as a bubble,
god made love and love made trouble!”
—John Dryden
It’s difficult, if not impossible, to maintain harmony in a rela-
tionship without healthy love. Similarly, adding a little romance
into long-term relationships tends to keep things interesting and
fresh. Thankfully one of the most popular tools in the Witch’s kit
was the love potion!
We have tons of historical examples from which to choose
our components and methods. In particular, we can look to
Catherine LaVoisin, the mistress of Louis XVI of France. She
was known for her knowledge of magick potions, especially
those for love, passion, and beauty. Many of the ingredients
she used are listed below, and continue to be used today!
Magickal components for love and romance include:
dill 	cinnamon 	caraway
coriander 	nutmeg 	rose
fennel 	celery 	ginseng
parsley 	apricot 	leek
apple 	basil 	bay
cherry juice 	chocolate 	ginger
honey 	kiwi 	lavender
lemon 	marjoram 	orange
strawberry 	tomato juice 	vanilla

144
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Definitely consider making these by candlelight or when
the moon is full to set the right mood! Serve from a pink- or
red-colored cup to accentuate your purpose further. For crystal
tonics, turn to amethyst, onyx, beryl, and pink quartz.
Traditional Mulled Ale
2 cups ale 	2 whole cloves
2 tsp. crushed fresh gingerroot 	2 Tbs. butter
2 Tbs. sugar 	2 eggs beaten
Directions: Place ale, clove, ginger, butter, and sugar into a
large saucepan and bring to just boiling. Slowly pour this mix-
ture into the beaten eggs, and then transfer into a large bottle.
Pour this into another jug, repeating this several times to build
up froth, then return to the pan to reheat. Remove ginger and
cloves before serving hot.
Magickal Associations: Partnership, love, and romance.
History/Lore: A favorite Victorian treat, mulled ale is a warm,
welcoming beverage for cold Winter nights in front of a ro-
mantic fire. The number two is employed throughout this recipe
to encourage positive emotions and communications between
two people.
Apricot Amour Nectar
1 lb. ripe apricots, blanched 	1lb. dried apricots
1 cup apricot nectar 	1 tsp. vanilla extract
1 qt. vodka 	1 1/2 cups sugar
Directions: Slice and prick your whole apricots into eight pieces.
Likewise prick the dried apricots. Place these equally dispersed
in one-quart jars with half the vanilla in each. Next, warm the
vodka only slightly so that the sugar can be dissolved in it. Pour
half of this mixture into each jar, cover, and seal. This mixture
should age three months, the liquid being served as a cordial
and the fruits as a dessert with whipped cream.
Magickal Associations: The spirit of Amour!

145
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: Apricot is considered a love food being sacred
to, and ruled by, Venus. It was a favored fruit on Elizabethan
tables and thought to owe its origins to Western Asia.
Alternatives: To add a little fervor to this beverage, reduce apri-
cot juice by half, then blend in half a cup of passion fruit juice.
Eros Tomatoes
1 gal. tomato juice 	1/2 pkg. wine yeast
2 lbs. tomatoes 	5 cups sugar
Directions: Dissolve the sugar in a small amount of the tomato
juice, which has been warmed. Meanwhile, in another pot, place
the tomatoes with the juice in a large pan bringing them to boil
until soft (about seven minutes). Mash thoroughly, returning
to simmer for about one hour, then strain as much liquid as
possible out of the mixture. Blend this with the sugar juice and
let sit overnight. In the morning, suspend your yeast in warm
water for 15 minutes before stirring into the juice. Ferment for
three weeks in a large container, then strain off the clearer liq-
uid into bottles for aging. Ready in nine to 12 months.
Magickal Associations: Romance, protection, blood mysteries
(note the coloration), vitality, passion, Fire magicks.
History/Lore: The tomato has its origins in the pre-Columbian
regions of Central and South America where the cultures were
largely vegetarian. The folk name for the tomato is the “love
apple.”
Romantic Roses
1 to 2 gal. pot filled 1/2 full 	1 gal. water
with rose petals 	3 lbs. sugar
2 Tbsp. rose water 	1 tsp. orange juice
1/2 pkg. wine or champagne yeast
Directions: Cover the rose petals with water and simmer over a
low flame until the petals become see-through. Strain off the
liquid, returning it to the original pan to warm with sugar until
the sugar is dissolved. Cool to lukewarm, adding champagne

146
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
yeast (preferably), which has been suspended in 1/4 cup warm
water. Cover the pot with a cloth for 24 hours to begin fer-
mentation. The next day, move the liquid to a large container
with fitted fermentation lock and add the rose water and or-
ange juice to it. Allow this to age until fermentation has all but
ceased. Rack off the clear pink liquid by placing a siphon into
the bottle about one inch above any sediment in the bottom.
Transfer the clear liquid into bottles with a sugar cube in each
bottle. Cork using champagne corks and store in dark, cool
area for one month. Issue caution when opening, as bottles
will have a fair amount of pressure built up.
Magickal Associations: The spirit of love and beauty.
History/Lore: Greeks considered the rose to be one of the best
symbols of love and loveliness, having been born from the blood
of Aphrodite. Romans often covered festival floors with roses
in welcome to honored guests. Arabs call rose water the “dew
of paradise.”
Love Potion
6 small apples, sliced 	1 gal. water
3 cups strawberries 	1/8 tsp. ginger
2 oranges 	1/8 tsp. cinnamon
2 small slices lemon peel 	2 1/2 lbs. sugar
3 cups raspberries 	1/3 pkg. yeast
Directions: Find deep red apples for this recipe and leave the
skins on. These combined with the berries yields a deep red
color to encourage love. Follow basic recipe for wine, remov-
ing oranges and lemon peel after liquid has cooled to lukewarm,
and then continue as directed.
Magickal Associations: Spirited romance, dedication, fervor,
compassion, sagacity.
History/Lore: All the herbs and fruits of this recipe have been
chosen for their longstanding association with love. The num-
ber of fruit slices were chosen to represent partnership (2), the
union of two people (3), and devotion to the relationship (6).

147
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Violet Liaison
1 lemon, sliced 	1 orange sliced
1 qt. spring water 	2 whole cloves
1/2 cup packed violet petals
Directions: Place the first four ingredients in your simmering
pan first. Heat the liquid until tepid, but not hot. Add the vio-
lets and simmer until they are almost see-through. Strain and
serve hot or cold in one glass with two straws!
Magickal Associations: Romance, love, keeping a cool head and
warm heart, protection in relationships.
History/Lore: Both violets and cloves are strongly associated
with human passions; thus, in this recipe two singular cloves
are used to symbolize a couple. When carried, cloves are thought
to encourage romantic interest. Violets are under the zodiacal
domain of Venus, symbolizing enchantment in the language
of flowers.
Alternative: Try adding two chamomile tea bags to the simmer-
ing liquid to bring peace in a home where tensions have dis-
couraged the spirit of romance.
Chocolate-Covered Cherries
1 8 oz. glass of cherry soda 	1 Tbsp. chocolate syrup
1 tsp. cherry extract 	1 Tbsp. malt extract
dash cinnamon 	cherries (garnish)
Directions: Place ingredients together in a blender and whip
until frothy. Pour into glass, sprinkling cinnamon on top and
decorating with fresh cherries.
Magickal Associations: Sweet, romantic love. Please use two
straws in one cup!
History/Lore: In lands to the east, the beautiful cherry tree has
long been associated with amorous pursuits, and chocolate is
a food that inspires passion in most people I know (if only for
the chocolate itself!).
Alternative: For a lustier blend, add a little mint.

148
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Vanilla Venus
2 cups vanilla coffee, chilled 	1 cup soda water
3 scoops vanilla ice cream 	1 tsp. vanilla extract
whipped cream
Directions: Another cold coffee drink, this is mixed most easily
in a blender, leaving the whipped cream for a garnish on top.
Serve in soda glasses.
Magickal Associations: Love, rituals honoring Venus or
Aphrodite.
History/Lore: Vanilla is actually a member of the orchid family,
grown in Mexico and Central America. Once discovered, it man-
aged to topple rose water as the favored flavoring of Medieval
Europe, and has been used widely as a magickal attractant for
romance.
Alternative: Try adding some almond extract in place of vanilla.
Magickally this still accentuates your goals while adding a lovely,
light nutty flavor.
L	L	L	L	L UCK	UCK	UCK	UCK	UCK
“There are few sporting men who are not in the
habit of wearing charms and talismans.”
—Thorstein Veblen
Almost everything in life benefits from a little extra seren-
dipity. In fact, you’d be hard pressed to find anyone who says
they wouldn’t like more luck! In magickal terms, luck boils down
to a positive energy flow that attracts similar energy. In turn, good
events—some unexpected and surprising—begin happening.
Mind you, when I speak of luck I’m not talking about win-
ning a huge lottery. That gets into an “iffy” territory that bor-
ders on using our magick to fulfill greed. Instead, I think of
finding an extra $10 bill on the street, getting a check in the

149
T h e 	R e c i p e s
mail when it’s most needed, and running into the right people
at the right time. That’s the kind of good fortune these bever-
ages are designed to inspire.
Some of the ingredients that bear lucky energy include:
allspice 	apple 	banana
basil 	cherry 	egg
heather 	kiwi 	nasturtium
onion 	parsley 	red beverages
The Moon drives luck’s energy, so definitely make these
during the waxing to full moon. For crystal potions use carne-
lian, holy stones, jade, and moonstone.
Honeysuckle Serendipity
4 cups honeysuckle blossoms 1 gal. water
6 cups sugar 	2 oranges, sliced and juiced
1/2 pkg. wine yeast
Directions: Place the blossoms in a large crock. Warm half the
water to just below boiling, then pour over the petals. Allow
to sit until blossoms turn almost translucent. Strain and re-
warm slightly to add orange juice, pieces, and yeast. Place into
a fermentation container with a lock until the liquid becomes
clear. Bottle and store in cool dark area for use.
Magickal Associations: Luck, good fortune, and good health.
History/Lore: If you find a honeysuckle plant growing near your
home (also known as Woodbine), it is not only a sign of good
fortune, but also a protector of the family’s health.
Fortune Draught
2 qts. dandelion blossoms 	2 qts. clover blossoms
1 gal. boiling water 	3 lbs. sugar
2 lemons 	2 oranges
1/2 pkg. of yeast 	1 cup raisins
Directions: Remove any stems and leaves from your blossoms,
placing them in a large cooking pot. Pour the boiling water over

150
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
top of these, adding sugar, sliced lemon, raisins, and oranges.
Simmer for a half-hour, then cool to lukewarm. Add the wine
yeast suspended as shown in other recipes herein, stir. This
should sit covered with a loosely woven cloth for one week.
Magickal Associations: Luck, opportunity, and windfalls.
History/Lore: Dandelions acquire their name from the jagged
leaves, which resemble lion’s teeth (note the French term dent
de lion). This gives this beverage a bit of a protective bite.
More importantly, however, is the association both clovers
and dandelions hold for luck. A four-leaf clover is considered
most fortunate, as is dreaming of a dandelion.
Good Luck Clovers
1 tsp. dried clover flowers 	1 tsp. daisy petals
1 cup hot water 	honey to taste
1 daisy bud with leaf (garnish)
Directions: Place the petals in a gauze wrap or tea ball and steep
for 15 minutes. Remove and flavor with honey. The daisy bud
should be snipped so that it barely appears over the edge of
your cup, like a young spring sprout.
History/Lore: The daisy is a flower that represents youthful in-
nocence and wishes. Clover enhances this with a bit of luck and
the power of protection to keep our goals plausible.
Alternatives: A stick of cinnamon can replace the daisy garnish
in this recipe for successful energies.
Coffee Karma
2 scoops cappuccino ice cream 1 cup chocolate ice cream
1/2 cup dark roast coffee, cold 1/4 cup cream
grated dark chocolate
Directions: A marvelously easy beverage to make, all your in-
gredients, except one teaspoon of the cream, are placed in a
blender and mixed until smooth. Serve by pouring into a glass
with the teaspoon of cream on top and chocolate shavings for
garnish.

151
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Rewarding good actions, fortune that
comes from your own efforts, delight.
History/Lore: To be honest, this recipe is not so much magickal
as it is personally pleasing and downright decadent. The rich
flavor brings a smile to the face of any coffee or chocolate lover
I know.
Hazelnut Windfall
4 eggs 	3/4 cup sugar
2 cups milk 	1 cup hazelnut coffee
1 Tbs. hazelnut extract 	1 cup cream
Directions: Beat eggs and sugar together until thick and frothy.
Add milk and coffee, which have been warmed together with
extract slowly to the sugar mixture. Separately beat heavy cream
and gradually mix one tablespoon of this into each cup as it is
poured. Serve warm.
Magickal Associations: Fertility, wisdom, and luck.
History/Lore: A favorite wood for dowsers, hazel trees offer their
fruit for a number of other magickal applications, including
increasing fundicity and as gifts to a young bride for joy in her
new life.
Luck of the Irish
1 tsp. sugar or honey 	2 Tbs. whipped cream
1/2 cup Irish whiskey 	2 drops green coloring
1/2 cup black coffee 	2 Tbs. heavy cream
Directions: Mix honey, whiskey, and black coffee together in a
large cup. Float the heavy cream on top and then add a mound
of whipped cream, which has been tinted green—the color of
shamrocks!
Magickal Associations: Serendipity, good fortune, and godsends.
History/Lore: The Irish claim to be the most fortuitous people
on the Earth, with the shamrock and Blarney stone to aid them.
This coffee is a favorite beverage there and has become quite
popular abroad.

152
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Alternatives: For a more Scottish tone, leave the whipped cream
white and use drambuis in place of the whiskey. Magickally
speaking, this is for hospitality.
Grapes of Grandure
1 gal. grape juice 	2 cups honeysuckle blossoms
1 1/2 cups orange juice 	1 jasmine tea bag
1/4 cup honey
Directions: Place all your ingredients together in a large pot for
simmering. Warm very slowly over low flame until honey is fully
dissolved. If your petals turn translucent before the honey is
mixed, remove them and continue warming. Cool to room tem-
perature, strain, and chill. Shake well before serving.
Magickal Associations: Awareness (especially psychic), good
fortune, financial stability, protection of health, friendship.
History/Lore: Also known as woodbine, in the language of flow-
ers honeysuckle symbolizes brotherly affection. It is featured
in the Old Testament as the third flower in the Song of Solomon.
In the Middle Ages, a syrup of honeysuckle was used to fight
fever.
Alternative: I like this prepared simply with warm water or apple
juice in place of the grape. With apple, this beverage is
magickally appropriate for wisdom in relationships or with re-
gard to personal resources.
M	M	M	M	MAGICK	AGICK	AGICK	AGICK	AGICK
“The magick of the tongue is the
most dangerous of all spells.”
—Edward Bulwer Lytton
What would a book of Witch’s beverages and brews be
without a few laced with magick! How can you use them? Lots
of ways! Drink one to increase the power of a spell. Try an-

153
T h e 	R e c i p e s
other to help manifest your personal vision of the magickal
arts and increase your aptitude. Quaff another still when you
just want to feel witchier!
Serve magickally oriented brews from a silver cup, the color
of the moon (it was once believed that Witches got their power
from the lunar sphere!). If possible, prepare them in a caul-
dron, the legs of which represent the threefold God/Goddess.
And, should you be feeling really witchy, go ahead and cackle
while you work...think of it like whistling with an attitude!
Some of the ingredients associated with magick and
magickal power include:
chrysanthemums 	vanilla 	carnation
rosemary 	tea 	mint
rose 	ginger 	echinacea
pineapple 	coffee 	citron
honey 	rum 	red and purple
beverages
Prepare these beverages during the full moon. Or, perhaps
prepare them at a time suited to your specific goals magickally.
For example, if you’re hoping to apply yourself to magickal
studies, you might wish to do it during the daytime hours of
the full moon so the conscious, learning self is stressed along
with the intuitive nature. For crystal elixirs look to malachite,
bloodstone, and quartz.
Four Quarter Harmony
1 cup diced quince (Earth) 	1 cup mulberries (Air)
1 orange, peeled and 	1 large apple, diced (Water)
sectioned (Fire) 	1 qt. vodka
2/3 cup honey 	1/8 tsp. cinnamon
1/8 tsp. ginger
Directions: Place the fruits in a large crock with vodka and
allow to soak for four to five hours. Mix in the honey and
spices next, covering the crock securely. A flour and water paste
over the edges helps to keep flavor, aroma, and alcohol content

154
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
at a good level. Place the entire mixture in the oven at 200 de-
grees for 10 hours. Cool and strain, serving either hot or cold.
(To make the paste, blend flour and water to make a thick, bread-
like paste and float this on top of the mixture while it cooks.)
Magickal Associations: Balance, symmetry, and accord. Cast-
ing the magick circle.
History/Lore: Each of the four fruits chosen in this recipe cor-
respond, with one quarter of the magick circle (one element).
Just as in magick, combining each element in harmony produces
some powerful, and in this instance tasty, results! This particu-
lar recipe comes from the Ukraine.
Alternatives: If you can not readily find quince, feel free to sub-
stitute fresh or canned pears (in juice, not syrup).
Mystic Bowl
1/2 gal. apple juice 	3 broken peppermint sticks
1 cup sugar 	2 cups soda water
2 cups whiskey 	3 broken cinnamon sticks
Directions: Using two cups of apple juice over a low flame, dis-
solve the sugar. Mix this with the rest of the juice and pour into
punch bowl with whiskey and spices. Allow this to sit covered
for a half hour before chilling, and then add soda water just
before serving.
Magickal Associations: Occult insight and ability; magickal tal-
ents being manifest.
History/Lore: During the time of the Greek gods, to own an
apple tree was to posses supernatural powers. Cinnamon and
peppermint enhance this energy.
Mulberry Magus
1 gal. water 	1/2 lemon, sliced
3 lbs. sugar 	1/3 pkg. yeast
5 lbs. mulberries 	1/2" slice bruised gingerroot
Directions: Place your mulberries with the water and mash
them, leaving to set overnight. Follow the basic recipe, allowing

155
T h e 	R e c i p e s
open-air fermentation for one week, followed by a straining,
then another week of open-air working. Pour into glass con-
tainers to let sit for three more weeks, then strain again into
final containers. This should age two years for best flavor.
Magickal Associations: Magickal transformation of energies,
enlightenment.
History/Lore: The Chinese hold this berry in such fervent re-
gard as to believe it can eliminate the need for food and even-
tually transform the consumer into a being of light!
Orange Oracle
2 small lemons 	1 gal. water
2 medium oranges 	1/4 tsp. yeast
1 cup raisins 	2 cups brown sugar
Directions: Peel the fruit, setting aside the rind. Using a fine
knife or fork, remove as much of the white membrane as you
can from both the fruit and rind. Slice the lemons and limes
into a large bowl with the sugar and cleaned fruit skins. Pour
the boiling water over it, allowing to cool to lukewarm. Next,
add your yeast as directed in general recipe for wine, allowing
open-air fermentation for 24 hours. Finally, place your raisins
in the bottom of a bottle and pour the liquid into it, capping
tightly. Continue to allow the beverage to ferment at room tem-
perature until the raisins move to the top of the bottle, then
refrigerate for use. Please note that this wine has the extra
advantage of a very mild alcohol content.
Magickal Associations: Vision, predictions, magickal and oracu-
lar power.
History/Lore: In Finland wines like this one are called Sima.
The citrus fruits add precision to your magickal efforts, and
raisins are thought to help encourage psychic dreams.

156
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Cinnamon and Sorcery
5 cups hot apple juice 	10 apple tea bags
3/4 cup sugar 	juice of one lemon
1/2 cup orange juice 	6 cloves
2 sticks cinnamon
Directions: Warm the apple juice in a large saucepan over a
medium flame. Add the apple tea bags and allow to steep for
at least 15 minutes before removing. Next add sugar, juice, and
spices. Allow to simmer for another 10 minutes. This can then
be poured into a punch bowl and served hot, with cinnamon
sticks for cup garnishes.
Magickal Associations: Wise use of magickal power.
History/Lore: Cinnamon is a power herb, while apple juice en-
courages thoughtfulness in how we use our gifts.
Berry Blessings
3 whole strawberries 	6 blueberries
6 raspberries 	10 black berries
1 tsp. sugar 	1 Tbsp. malt extract
6 oz. skim milk 	2 oz. soda water
Directions: Rinse your fruit thoroughly, then blend all ingredi-
ents together until frothy. Serve as is or over ice. Please note
that sundae sauces can be used in lieu of fresh fruit; about half
a teaspoon is all that’s necessary.
Magickal Associations: Learning magickal arts.
History/Lore: When properly prepared, this malted comes out
a lovely violet hue, the color most commonly associated with
spiritual pursuits and metaphysical learning.
Alternative: Consider floating a fresh violet on top of this drink
to further accent the magickal energies. These flowers are often
grown in the home to promote sacred pursuits.

157
T h e 	R e c i p e s
P	P	P	P	P EACE	EACE	EACE	EACE	EACE 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	R	R	R	R	R ES	ES	ES	ES	EST	T	T	T	T
“If we have no peace it is because we have forgotten that we
belong to each other”
—Mother Teresa
Considering the hectic pace of most people’s lives, I can think
of no one who couldn’t use a sense of inner peace and calm. In
fact, I truly believe this is a key component to a healthy, happy,
spiritual life. If we never slow down, if we’re never quiet and still,
we cannot hear the voice of the Sacred whispering to us.
Then too, our world is filled with strife, of person-to-per-
son fighting and struggle. The reason varies, but the result is
the same: the desperate need for global pace. Witches recog-
nize that even this somewhat grand-sounding goal begins with
each individual being comfortable with her place in the greater
scheme and having true inner harmony. So that’s where the
beverages in this chapter begin.
The common components for peace include:
basil 	lavender 	lettuce
blue drinks 	white drinks (truce) water
catnip 	quince 	cumin
rose 	violet 	marigold
saffron 	marjoram 	oregano
cucumber 	apple 	peach
passion fruit 	raspberry 	apricot
Timing for these beverages depends on your goal. If you
are seeking a good night’s rest, I’d suggest preparing your drink
just before bed. If you’re trying to settle an overactive emo-
tional system that’s disrupting inner peace, prepare it in the
daylight. And, if you’re making a libation aimed at inspiring
world peace, I’d seriously consider making it on the night of a
blue moon—we can use a miracle or two in that area!
For crystal tinctures, use amethyst, aventurine, carnelian,
malachite, obsidian, or sodalite.

158
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Inner Peace Potable
4 qts. water 	1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup nettle leaves 	1/2 cup brown sugar
1" bruised gingerroot 	1 pkg. beer yeast
1/2 tsp. grated lemon peel 	sugar cubes
1/2 tsp. grated orange peel
Directions: Place the nettle leaves with ginger, lemon peel, and
orange peel in water. Bring to a boil, and then lower heat to
simmer for a half hour. Strain. To this add sugars, stirring
until totally dissolved. Cool the liquid until lukewarm. While
you are waiting, suspend the beer yeast in a quarter cup warm
water. Add this to the spiced water and let work in a warm
area with a cloth over it until all signs of bubbling seem to
stop. Strain again while bottling, adding two sugar cubes to
each quart bottle. Let this sit closed securely for seven days
before drinking. Shelf life is another two to three weeks.
Magickal Associations: Grace, peace of mind, seclusion.
History/Lore: Versions of spiced small beers appear in many
lands, specifically to this recipe, Wales, a country known for its
beauty and solitude.
Alternatives: For a beer with more cleansing qualities, try add-
ing a teaspoonful of freshly ground grapefruit rind and two
fruit slices during the boiling. For fuller flavor, substitute honey
for sugar in the same proportions. Test this, as sometimes more
sweetness may be desired to offset the grapefruit.
Harmonic Draught
2 cups boiling water 	white flower (garnish)
1/2 cup sugar 	1 jigger gin
9 mint leaves 	slice of lemon
Directions: Stir sugar into the boiling water until it is totally
dissolved. Steep the mint leaves and lemon for about 10min-
utes then remove adding gin. May also be chilled and served.
Garnish.

159
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Peace, serenity, and reconciliation.
History/Lore: Nine is the number of universal law and symme-
try. Mint has been honored with such folk names as “heart mint”
and “lamb mint” as an indication of its peaceful nature. Greeks
and Romans often used mint in baths to help calm tensions.
The white flower is added as an emblem of amicable intentions.
Restful Pleasure
3 cups boiling water 	1 ltr. brandy
12 quinces, peeled and diced
2 chamomile tea bags
Directions: Place the quince and chamomile in the boiling wa-
ter in a large bowl. Allow to sit until cool. To this, add the liter
of brandy and store together in an airtight container for three
months. Strain. May be served warm with a cinnamon stick or
chilled over ice.
Magickal Associations: Accord, restfulness, relaxed visits with
friends, serenity.
History/Lore: To the ancient Greeks, the quince was a fruit that
insured joy and harmony, especially in relationships. They some-
times called it the “golden apple,” much as they did the orange.
Chamomile likewise encourages this tranquility.
Amendment Wine
1 lb. sweet almonds 	2 lbs. sugar
1 tsp. cinnamon 	1 pint cherry juice
2 tsp. almond extract 	1 gal. water
1/2 oz orange blossom water 	1/3 pkg. yeast
(optional) 	pinch of lemon rind
Directions: Finely crush the sweet almonds. Meanwhile, bring
one half of your water to boil, then pour this over the almonds.
Let the nuts soak for 48 hours, then move to the stove and
follow basic recipe.

160
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Restoring relationships, reconciliation,
and forgiveness.
History/Lore: This recipe has its origins in Russia, where like
many European lands, orange water symbolizes faithfulness.
Almond is employed with this for energy.
Truce Mead
1 gal. apple cider 	1 1/2 lbs. grapes
Directions: Follow the instructions for non-alcoholic mead, ex-
cept that your cider replaces the one gallon of water in the
basic recipe. Additionally, I suggest using seedless grapes that
have been mashed to extract the greatest amount of juice.
Magickal Associations: Offerings for peace among people. In a
group setting, this should be shared from a communal cup.
History/Lore: Here we have combined a cider-like beverage
popular in Europe and this recipe, which is reminiscent of an
ancient wine from Egypt known as Pymeat, for a truly inter-
national drink to encourage a one-world perspective.
Alternatives: Choose your grapes according to your goals. White
can be for harmony and purity, or purple for spiritual insight.
Chamomile Comfort
1 cup boiling water 	1 cup hopped beer
1 chamomile tea bag 	honey to taste
1/2 tsp. lavender 	1/2 tsp. lemon verbena
Directions: Place the lavender and lemon verbena in a tea ball
or gauze cloth. Steep these with the chamomile in the boiling
water for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, warm the beer to a palatable
temperature, while stirring in honey. Blend these in equal pro-
portions with the tea and enjoy two cups full. Especially useful
just before bed.
Magickal Associations: Peacefulness, tranquility, gentility, and
consolation.

161
T h e 	R e c i p e s
History/Lore: Chamomile is known for its sedative quality. The
scent of lavender helps calm the nerves; lemon verbena helps
encourage rest; and hops improves sleep.
Tea Time at Trish’s
1 tsp. mint tea 	2 cinnamon sticks
1 tsp. apple tea 	1/4 cup honey
1 tsp. berry tea 	orange peel (fresh)
1 tsp. black tea 	lemon peel (fresh)
4 cups boiling water 	2 tsp. lemon juice
Directions: Steep the four types of tea in hot water using a tea
ball or bag, then remove tea. While hot, add your cinnamon,
honey, fruit rinds (one whole fruit each), and lemon juice. This
is wonderful hot, or may be chilled and served over chipped
ice.
Magickal Associations: Relaxation, healthy leisure, and intro-
spection, which rejuvenates.
History/Lore: Tea was one of the plants sacred to Buddha, and
considering all its uses in religion and medicine, it is certainly
no wonder. During the Victorian Era, it was often associated
with the pleasurable moments of quiet sharing with friends.
Cool-Off Coffee
4 ice cubes crushed 	1 to 2 Tbsp. sugar
4 cups strong coffee 	1 tsp. amaretto flavoring
(your choice) 	amaretto whipped cream
Directions: Place the crushed ice with sugar, coffee, and flavor-
ing in a blender on medium speed for two to three minutes.
Pour into a tall glass or cup and top off with whipped cream.
Most supermarkets now stock the amaretto flavored aerosol
cream, or you can make it fresh and simply add one teaspoon
extract during the beating process.
Magickal Associations: Calming energies, cooling tempers.
History/Lore: The icy nature of this beverage puts a distinctive
chill on emotions or energy that has gotten out of control.

162
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Consolation Cup
1 cup chamomile flowers 	1 cup passion fruit juice
1 cup spearmint leaves 	1/2 cup hop flowers
dash fennel
Directions: Use one teaspoon of this mixture to one cup of
warmed passion fruit juice, steeped for 10 minutes and strained.
Chill, then if desired, add a bit of heavy cream, plain or whipped.
Magickal Associations: Solace, serenity, peacefulness.
History/Lore: This is actually a very practical preparation that
helps ease tension and stress. Hops helps to bring drowsiness.
Once sleep is obtained, spearmint is thought to help protect
against nightmares and negativity. The Greeks referred to cha-
momile as “Apple of the Earth.”
Alternative: Lavender can be substitute for spearmint in the pro-
portion of three-quarters of a cup. This is strongly recommended
for people experiencing spiritual depression or discouragement.
P	P	P	P	P R	R	R	R	RO	O	O	O	OT	T	T	T	TE	E	E	E	EC	C	C	C	CTION	TION	TION	TION	TION
“Beneath the shadow of great protection the soul sits,
hushed and calm”
—James F. Clarke
The world is not always a safe place. All around us dangers
exist, from a simple cold bug and distracted people driving
cars, to thievery and other criminal activity! Danger can also
exist on a spiritual level; such as the energy caused by negative
thought forms or the disturbances caused by an ill-spirited ghost!
It has always been my stance that in all such matters fore-
warned is forearmed. We need to practice proactive protective
magick, and beverages help us do just that. Because you con-
sume these (for the most part) you then carry the protective
energy with you wherever you may be. And, should you wish a

163
T h e 	R e c i p e s
little extra safety in your personal space, all you need do is
sprinkle a bit of the same beverage around. This particular
approach usually works better when combined with visualiza-
tion and/or incantations to strengthen the effect.
Some of the ingredients commonly used for protective
magick include:
banana 	basil 	bay
dill 	garlic 	ice
marjoram 	peach 	pepper
radish 	red juices/wines 	anise
white beverages 	blueberry 	coconut
cinnamon 	ginseng 	beer
heather 	chrysanthemum 	citrus
mulberry 	papaya 	raspberry
rhubarb 	rose 	sage
clove 	rosemary 	plum
almond flavoring 	walnut flavoring
Bear in mind this list is very abbreviated. Protective magick
often changes depending on what kind of protection you
needed. A beverage to keep ghosts away might include garlic,
for example, while one to protect you from depression might
include marjoram.
You have no time constraints on protective magick. Do it
when you need it (and perhaps even before you need it!). For
crystal elixirs use amber, cat’s eye, holy stones, lapis, obsid-
ian, and/or turquoise.
Protection Potion
2 Tbsp. anise 	1 qt. warm water
2 Tbsp. fennel 	1 cup sugar
2" strip of lemon peel 	1 tsp. yeast
Directions: Place the anise, fennel, and finely sliced bits of the
lemon peel in the water and allow to soak for one hour. Strain
and return the water to a low flame, adding sugar and stirring

164
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
until dissolved. While this cools to lukewarm, suspend the yeast
in one-quarter cup warm water. Mix into the tea-like water,
then bottle with a loose cork for about 10 days. Slowly tighten
cork, then age until liquid in bottle looks clear (about three
months).
Magickal Associations: Cleansing, turning negativity, safety from
malevolent magick.
History/Lore: Anise has been used since the time of Virgil to
protect against the evil eye. Fennel mirrors this in medieval
Europe, where it was rubbed on the body to keep mischievous
Witchcraft away.
Samhain Safety
1 large pumpkin 	brown sugar to fill
1 ltr. rum 	1 orange, juiced
3 to 5 cloves (optional)
Directions: Clean out all the seeds from the inside of the pump-
kin, leaving the insides intact and carefully preserving the lid.
Fill the central cavity with brown sugar mixed with rum and the
orange juice. Cloves are likewise added now if desired. Re-
seal the pumpkin using a little wax around the edges of the lid.
Hang from the ceiling over a bowl using some netting for three
weeks or until juice begins to leak from the bottom of the
pumpkin. Make a hole in the bottom and release the rest of
the juice, straining into bottles and allowing to age for one
month before using.
Magickal Associations: Protection and safety from ghosts.
History/Lore: Long before they became a welcome feature to
Samhain and Thanksgiving celebrations, pumpkins were known
in the New World as “pumpions.” Slowly, they replaced tur-
nips as the choice carving vegetable for Halloween to keep
wandering spirits away.

165
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Bubbling Brewpot
5 cups fresh raspberries 	1 orange sliced thinly
1 ltr. gin 	mint leaves (garnish)
1 orange, juiced 	5 tsp. sugar
1/2 ltr. raspberry ginger ale
Directions: Crush five cups of the raspberries and place them in
the punch bowl. Add gin, the juice of the one orange, and sugar,
beating with a wire whisk. Next add ginger ale, floating sliced
orange and mint on top. Serve with ice for eight people.
Magickal Associations: Protection, especially from wandering
Spirits; boldness in the face of adversity.
History/Lore: No toil and trouble here! In the Philippines, rasp-
berry vines are regarded as very protective. They are often
draped near a doorway shortly after a loved one’s death to keep
an unsettled ghost from entering. One wonders if this early con-
notation of safety eventually lead to the idea of “giving a rasp-
berry” as a sign of defiance—in this case even of the afterlife!
Blackberry Bramble
1/4 tsp. angelica root 	1/4 tsp. dill seed
1/8 tsp. horehound 	1/2 tsp. fennel
1/2 cup warmed blackberry 	1/2 cup hot water
wine 	3 to 4 whole blackberries
Directions: Place your herbs in a tea ball to steep in the half cup
of hot water for 20 minutes. To this, add your blackberry wine
and a few whole berries as a garnish. Honey may be added for
sweetening if desired. A good beverage to enjoy before bed.
Magickal Associations: Protection from negative magicks, pu-
rification, and atonement.
History/Lore: Horehound is one of the five bitter herbs of Pass-
over. It was also used predominantly in Europe to cure cases
thought to be caused by a magickal toxin. Hyssop was simi-
larly lauded for cleansing: in the words of David, “Purge me
with Hyssop, and I shall be clean.”

166
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Sparkling Sanctuary
2 bottles sparkling white grape juice
1 12-oz. can pineapple with syrup 	1" bruised gingerroot
Directions: Drain the syrup from the pineapple and place in a
small pan with one tablespoon of water. Add gingerroot and warm
for 15 minutes. Strain off root. Pour this liqueur into the grape
juice and garnish with fresh green grapes or pineapple chunks.
Magickal Associations: Protection.
History/Lore: Both ginger and pineapple are considered to be
protective, the first because of its biting flavor and the second
because of its prickly exterior.
Mettle Nettle
2 cups of well-washed nettles 	1/2" gingerroot, bruised
3 medium potatoes, poked 	1 gal. water
brown sugar to taste
Directions: Boil the potatoes for one hour in the water, then
strain. Add nettles and gingerroot, returning the liquid to the
stove for an additional hour. Strain again and add sugar to taste.
Best served warm.
Magickal Associations: New perspectives, cleansing, protection.
History/Lore: A beverage great for a good energy boost and at-
titude improvement, this drink is high in minerals. Nettle some-
times slows bleeding when applied to skin and was once worn
as an amulet to protect against evil spirits.
P	P	P	P	P S	S	S	S	SY	Y	Y	Y	YCHISM	CHISM	CHISM	CHISM	CHISM 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	A	A	A	A	A W	W	W	W	WARENESS	ARENESS	ARENESS	ARENESS	ARENESS
“A soul without watchfulness is like a city without walls.”
—William Secker
Not all Witches are psychic and not all psychics are
Witches! For those of us who fall into the first category, bev-
erages that enhance supernatural senses or “tune in” spiri-

167
T h e 	R e c i p e s
tual comprehension skills are very helpful to magickal efforts.
For example, if you’re not aware that there is some negative
energy heading your way, you’re far less likely to protect your-
self from it. Psychism prepares you for what’s ahead, while aware-
ness helps with nearly every part of life of which I can think!
Here are some ingredients commonly used to enhance
either of these attributes:
bay 	celery 	cinnamon
nutmeg 	dandelion 	rose
thyme 	sprouts 	coconut
purple juices 	clover 	fennel
For crystal tinctures, turn to amethyst, beryl, citrine, lapis,
and the ever-faithful clear quartz.
Consider making your psychic drinks during a full moon,
the symbol that represents our superconscious and magickal
nature. Awareness brews can be made at the same time, but if
you’re looking for conscious awareness you might want to con-
sider making them at noon during a day when the full moon is
present. This will provide you with the best of both worlds (so-
lar and lunar energy). Serve them in a silver cup, the color of
our insightful nature.
By the way, you can dab a bit of this liquid on your third eye
or temples to symbolically activate the energy in areas associ-
ated with those traits. The third eye is often considered the psy-
chic center (between your eyebrows) and your temples are a
“thinking” zone.
Seer’s Beer
1/2 qt. dandelion flowers 	1/2" gingerroot, bruised
1/2 lemon, diced finely 	2 qts. water
1 cup brown sugar 	1/4 cup white sugar
1/8 cup cream of tartar 	1/8 oz. beer yeast (top fermenting)
Directions: Wash your dandelion flowers, then place them in
a large pot along with the ginger, lemon, and water. Boil this

168
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
together for 15 minutes. In another large container, mix the
sugars and cream of tartar together, slowly pouring in the hot
liquid to dissolve. Strain and allow to cool to lukewarm.
Meanwhile, suspend the yeast in one-quarter cup warm
water. Add this to the cooled liquid to begin fermentation. Keep
in a warm place with a heavy cloth over top for three days be-
fore straining and bottling. Age for one week, then enjoy. Shelf
life on this is short—about six weeks before it gets very bitter.
Magickal Association: Prophesy, psychic visions, dream oracles
History/Lore: The most loved and hated plant of all time, dan-
delions are rich in vitamins and minerals. They mark the sun’s
movement by closing their petals when it is dark, symbolize
ancient prognostication, and were often used for love augury.
Carrot Keen
1 gal. water 	4 lbs. carrots
1 lb. raisins, chopped 	4 cups brown sugar, lightly packed
1/2 pkg. wine yeast
Directions: Boil the chopped, cleaned carrots in water until very
tender. Strain, retaining carrots for use in carrot cake. Return
the liquid to the pan, adding sugar, stirring until totally dissolved.
Place raisins in a large fermenting jar with suspended yeast
mixture and pour lukewarm carrot juice over top. Use a fer-
mentation lock or balloon for three weeks until fermentation
is complete. Strain into another jug with secure lid allowing to
age another two months before bottling the clear fluid at top.
Magickal Associations: Keen insight, heightened inner vision,
and alertness.
History/Lore: In Scotland, carrots participate in a holiday known
as Carrot Sunday, when this vegetable is gathered, blessed at
the churches, and taken home to protect the household. Any-
one finding a forked carrot is considered doubly fortunate
and safeguarded. Meanwhile, mothers everywhere recommend
eating carrots to improve your “sight.”

169
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Petaled Oracle
1 qt. apple wine 	2 limes
2 oranges 	8 rose geranium leaves
1 cup sugar
Directions: Warm the apple wine, sugar, and geranium for five
to 10 minutes until sugar is dissolved. Add sliced limes and
oranges and allow to cool. Strain and bottle, aging for one
month before consuming.
Magickal Associations: Prophesy, insight, using divination as a
service to others.
History/Lore: This beverage comes to us from Arabia, where
the prophet Mahomet is given honor as birthing this lovely
blossom. Some cunning folk of old would plant specially en-
chanted geraniums by their door to prepare them for impend-
ing guests by foreseeing their arrival.
Alternatives: Geraniums can be replaced with 6 whole bay leaves
for similar magickal results.
Apricot Awareness
1 cup hot water 	1/2 cup apricot brandy
1 apricot or orange tea bag 	whipped cream (garnish)
1 tsp. apricot jam
Directions: Prepare your tea as usual, adding the apricot jam
while still very hot in order to dissolve it. Pour in your brandy,
then top with a tablespoon full of whipped cream. Sugar may
be added for sweetening if desired.
Magickal Associations: Divination, foresight, sagacity, psychic
awareness.
History/Lore: The Chinese regard the apricot tree as one of
great prophetic power because it was here that Confucius wrote
his commentaries. Additionally, one of the great religious minds
of China, Lao-tse, was purportedly born under an apricot tree,
already cognizant at birth.

170
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Truth Tell
1 cup coconut 	1 cup pineapple juice
(or coconut milk) 	3 tsp. sugar
1 tsp. rum extract 	crushed ice
Directions: Canned coconut cream seems to work best for this
beverage, having an already smooth texture. Thoroughly mix
in unsweetened pineapple juice, sugar, and rum extract. Serve
over crushed ice.
Magickal Associations: Protection from falsehood; improved
awareness of deceptive images, especially on a psychic level.
History/Lore: Both the pineapple and coconut are associated
with protective and psychic magick.
Alternative: Add a few strawberries to this drink to help you
remove your rose-colored glasses pertaining to a romantic part-
ner. In this instance, honey might be a better choice over sugar.
Psychic Physic
1 gal. water 	4 cups fresh dandelion flowers
6-10 whole fresh mint leaves 	1/2 lemon, diced
1/2 cup hop flowers 	1 mint tea bag
1 lb. sugar 	1/4 pkg. active yeast
Directions: Boil together the first six ingredients for 25 minutes
and strain. Add sugar immediately thereafter, stirring in sus-
pended yeast when liquid cools. Follow as per other recipes
this section for bottling.
Magickal Associations: Growing awareness, improved clarity of
psychic gifts, vision, foresight.
History/Lore: Oliver Wendell Homes said that these flowers
leapt from the kindling Sun’s fire, and they did so with a bounty,
as any Spring lawn will show. In the language of flowers, they
are symbolic of ancient oracles.

171
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Foresight Fountain
2 cups cheery juice 	1 cup orange juice
1 cup pomegranate juice 	1 tsp. hazel extract
1/2 ltr. ginger ale or soda water dandelion or broom flowers
(garnish)
Directions: Pour your first four ingredients together and chill
well before placing in punch bowl. Add ginger ale and float the
flowers, after washing them well, atop the dish.
Magickal Associations: Psychic energy, improved insight, fore-
sight, prophesy.
History/Lore: Each ingredient, with the exception of ginger
ale, in this beveragehas at one time been linked with the abil-
ity to divine information. The soda adds bubbly energy to
your efforts.
Alternatives: Try changing your garnish to reflect the goals of
the question being asked. For love, use rose petals, or in mat-
ters of weather, float heather.
SENSUALITY AND SEXUALITY
“True sexuality acknowledges both these dimensions
[spiritual and physical], and tries to embrace
them both in the act of love.”
—Kent Nerburn
Generally speaking, humans are not built for a hermetic
existence. We are social beings that want to feel appreciated
and express our feelings to others. For hundreds of thousands
of years, a huge portion of this expression came in the form of
procreation simply to continue the species. Modern Witches
aren’t quite that clinical about sex and sensuality. We see the
body as a sacred gift, and one that should be enjoyed fully by
mutually consenting adults.

172
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
That having been said, AIDS and other sexually transmit-
ted diseases have created an atmosphere in which caution is
certainly called for in our interpersonal expressions. This
means that sensual, sexual brews should be created cautiously
and with real mindfulness (as mindful as the act of lovemaking
should be as well!). The idea in creating these beverages is to
inspire yourself and your partner toward creatively communi-
cating physical feelings that may have grown apathetic, dull,
sluggish, static, or seem dead compared to that old spark you
knew so well.
Some of the common magickal components used to nur-
ture passion along include:
carrot 	celery 	cherry
chocolate 	cinnamon 	honey
nutmeg 	peach 	potato
raspberry 	rose 	strawberry
vanilla 	mint 	licorice
blackberry 	papaya 	mango
barley (beer) 	rice milk 	plums
rum 	chartreuse 	brandy
If preparing this beverage for a man, I suggest doing so
during the day. The sun supports masculine energy. For women,
just the opposite is true. Prepare the beverage by moonlight,
especially that of a waxing moon, so sexual pleasure grows. For
a crystal elixir, I recommend carnelian.
Woman’s Wonder
1 qt. milk 	1 small cinnamon stick
1 1/2 cups sugar 	4 egg whites
1 tsp. lemon juice 	1 cup cinnamon liqueur
2" piece lemon peel
Directions: Place your milk in a small pan with one cup of sugar.
Add lemon peel and cinnamon stick while simmering over low
flame for about three to five minutes. Cool, strain, and set in

173
T h e 	R e c i p e s
freezer. Meanwhile, beat your eggwhites with a half-cup of
sugar, adding lemon juice when peaks form. Beat this mixture
into the chilled milk very slowly with equal portions of the
cinnamon liqueur. Return to the freezer until a slush-like con-
sistency forms. Serve in chilled glasses.
Magickal Associations: Improved potency, passion, and fervent
energy (especially for women).
History/Lore: In the 1500s Arabic, camel caravans would ar-
rive at European markets bearing many spices, including cin-
namon, which they knew would fetch a handsome price. In
Chinese mythology, cinnamon was the spice of immortality.
Magickally, cinnamon is ruled by Venus and is considered a
Fire herb, making it an excellent aphrodisiac.
Alternative: For success and prosperity, substitute one inch of
bruised gingerroot and ginger liqueur for the cinnamon in this
recipe.
God Aspect
1/2 cup crushed almonds 	1 tsp. nutmeg
1/2 cup crushed cashews 	1 whole walnut, per person
1/2 cup crushed hazelnuts 	1 pint vodka
1 pint almond liqueur
Directions: Place the first six ingredients together in a large glass
container with lid for two months in the sunlight, shaking daily.
Strain. Add almond liqueur and test for sweetness. Add honey
if desired. Note that although this beverage is quite tasty with-
out the almond liqueur, this last ingredient serves to accent the
magickal aspects and improve flavor.
Magickal Associations: The huntsman, male virility and sexual-
ity, Pan, The Horned One and other fertile god images.
History/Lore: Nuts in general have often been associated as an
emblem of male sexuality. An old Phrygian tale tells about
how one of their great gods, Attis, was born from an almond
nut placed in the heart of the Goddess.

174
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Creativity Cooler
1 ltr. peach brandy or liqueur 1 cup milk
6 ice cubes, chopped 	2 Tbsp. heavy cream
1 banana, sliced
Directions: Place the brandy, milk, and ice together in a blender.
Whip until frothy. Pour into glasses topped with a thin layer of
heavy cream and sliced bananas for garnish.
Magickal Associations: Sexual symmetry and inventiveness.
History/Lore: The banana and peaches in this recipe combine
to create a harmonious balance of male-female energies per-
fect to bring fertile energy into any creative effort or physical
expression.
Banana Split Spritz
1 pint of your favorite ice cream 1 cup soda water or ginger ale
1 banana, sliced 	2 tsp. maraschino cherry juice
2 tsp. of your favorite topping 	whipped cream (garnish)
1 cherry (garnish) 	sprinkles (garnish)
Directions: Place ice cream and a half-cup of the ginger ale in
the blender on low setting. Slowly add the remaining pop with
the other ingredients except garnishes. You may need to add
more ginger ale to achieve a smooth enough texture to drink.
Don’t forget to put it in a large glass with two straws! This is
definitely a beverage for sharing.
Magickal Associations: Love towards self and others, spiritual
compassion, sexual pleasure.
History/Lore: Banana splits bring out the romantic idealist in
almost everyone. In India, the banana leaf was a predominant
part of marriage rites. In Polynesia, the banana plant figures
heavily into legends, and in some areas banana plants are
thought to encourage luck. The cherry on top of this creation
also encourages love, being ruled by Venus.

175
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Ice Cream Playfulness
1 qt. passion fruit juice 	2 cups pineapple puree
1 qt. rainbow sherbet 	1 ltr. ginger ale
1/2 ltr. vodka 	2 cups whole cherries
Directions: Mix passion fruit with pineapple puree until well
incorporated. Next, using a hand mixer, beat together the sher-
bet slightly softened, ginger ale, and vodka. Slowly mix this
blend with the juice and pour into your punch bow. Float cher-
ries on top. Makes about three and a half quarts.
Magickal Associations: Young love, exuberant passion, sexual
playfulness, romance, adoration.
History/Lore: The combination of tropical fruit and ice cream
makes a powerful vehicle for the imagination and flights of
fancy, especially with regard to relationships. All the fruits in-
cluded here have, at some time, been magickally associated with
love.
Strawberry-Banana Stimulation
1 banana 	1 cup plain yogurt
1 cup milk 	5 strawberries
1 tsp. honey 	pinch of ginger or cinnamon
(optional)
Directions: Blend together the first five ingredients until well
incorporated. Ladies pour this into a brandy-style glass, men
into a long, champagne-style one. As you drink, envision the
energy moving to “pleasure” centers to help encourage sexual
enjoyment.
Magickal Associations: Sexual potency, stamina, fertility, fecun-
dity, physical pleasure.
History/Lore: This is an especially nice beverage to try just
before conception rites, or for people who are having prob-
lems enjoying physical contact. Plain yogurt encourages the
spiritual nature, while the banana is representative of male
energy and strawberry is the female.

176
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Cherry Almond Delight
1 12-oz. can frozen cherry juice 1 slice orange
1 lb. pitted cherries 	1 tea bag
6 cups apricot nectar 	1 1/2 gal. water
2 1/2 Tbsp. sugar 	1/3 pkg. yeast
1/2 tsp. almond extract
Directions: Follow basic wine recipe, allowing a two-day open-
air fermentation before straining off fruit. Please note that
cherries exhibit a slow, steady fermentation.
Magickal Associations: Productivity, love magick, sexual equi-
librium, and harmony.
History/Lore: As early as 8 B.C., herbalists in the region of
Assyria were acclaiming the cherry for its wonderful smell
and value to health. Magickally, cherries, apricots, and al-
monds are all associated with the energy of love and romance.
Alternative: Three pounds of strawberries may be substituted
for the cherries, yielding a marvelous wine with similar magickal
results. However, please note that strawberries are very active
fermenters and extra caution will have to be taken with excess
pressure in your aging containers.
Plum Affectionate
1 gal. spring water 	15 good size plums
1 strand saffron 	3 lbs. sugar
1 tsp. rose water 	1/3 pkg. sparkling yeast
Directions: Bring your water to a low rolling boil while plums are
being sliced and all pits are removed. Please note that your fruit
should be sweet and ripe. The plums need to simmer in the water
for a half hour until the liquid turns very red. Now add your
sugar, saffron, and rose water, following the basic recipe for wine.
Watch your wine closely. When it begins to get tart, return the
entire batch to the stove, adding more plums and sugar until the
taste is slightly sweeter than you might like. Age again, and re-
peat this process one more time for an almost liqueur-like wine.

177
T h e 	R e c i p e s
At this point, sweeten to personal taste, boil, strain, and rebottle
for gift giving or your own enjoyment.
Magickal Associations: Long life, kinship, companionship, and
sexual compatibility.
History/Lore: In Eastern lands, plums are regarded as an em-
blem of friendship. It also represents immortality, because it
is the first tree to begin to show signs of life in Spring.
Pineapple Passion for 2
1 1/2 cups pineapple juice 	1 1/2 cups passion fruit juice
1/2 cup crushed pineapple 	2 tsp. sweetener syrup
1 tsp. vanilla extract 	dash cinnamon
Directions: Place all ingredients in a blender and whip up the
passion!
Magickal Associations: Desire, attractiveness, affection.
History/Lore: Just by its name, passion fruit elicits certain ex-
pectations. Pineapple is the balancing point to this recipe, al-
lowing our desires to be centered on one special individual.
Alternative: For even more sensual vigor, try using blackberry
or mango juice instead of the pineapple.
Cafe Exhilaration
3 cups banana-flavored coffee 	1/2 tsp. cinnamon
1 tsp. vanilla 	1 cup heavy cream
1/2 ripe banana 	sugar to taste
5 ice cubes
Directions: This is a marvelously easy beverage to prepare. Place
all your ingredients in the blender, except for the ice, and whip
until thick and frothy. Then add ice and chop finely so that
the consistency is like a frappe. Garnish with a cherry!
Magickal Associations: Conception, fertility, sexual pleasure,
and prowess.
History/Lore: Banana is used in this beverage to encourage
sexual potency, while vanilla and cinnamon are used to improve
desire.

178
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
S	S	S	S	S UN	UN	UN	UN	UN AND	AND	AND	AND	AND M	M	M	M	M OON	OON	OON	OON	OON
“That orbed continent, the fire that severs day from night”
—Shakespeare
The Sun in the morning and the Moon at night: These are
two images on which even the earliest humans felt they could
depend. At first both were conferred with indwelling spirits,
even to the point of each becoming a god or goddess in their
own right. Later, people still associated the Sun and Moon with
sacred powers, but also with specific magickal influences that
affected life on Earth in various ways.
Throughout this book I’ve talked about using the Moon’s
phases and/or sunlight to energize your beverage efforts. Be-
yond that, however, what about creating beverages to empha-
size the solar or lunar attributes you most need, or for special
Sun and Moon celebrations? The key is knowing which items
are considered hot/fiery and cold/watery. Here is a list to which
you can refer:
Solar Components
bay 	carnelian 	chamomile
chrysanthemum 	cinnamon 	ginseng
lime 	marigold 	orange
pineapple 	rice milk 	rosemary
tea 	walnut flavoring 	grapefruit
distilled beverages honey 	red wine
saffron 	tangerine
For crystal tinctures, use amber, carnelian, tiger’s eye, or
topaz. Prepare these beverages in sunlight: at noon for the
greatest potency, at dawn for hope, and at dusk for comple-
tion or endings. Serve in yellow or gold-tone cups.

179
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Sunset Ale
1 1/2 lbs. malt extract 	1/2 oz. bullion hops
4 oz. crystal malt 	1/8 oz. cascade pellets
1/2 tsp. gypsum 	1 gal. water
1/4 tsp. salt 	1/2 pkg. top fermenting
1/4 cup dextrose 	beer yeast
Directions: Bring your water to a low rolling boil, adding gyp-
sum and salt. Now add malts and boil for 20 minutes. Remove
a quarter cup of the liquid and cool to lukewarm in order to
suspend the yeast in. Meanwhile, add the aromatic hops, sim-
mering for 15 minutes (cascade) and cool. In a large container,
place a half gallon of cold water with yeast. Pour the liquid into
this and cover loosely. Watch for all signs of fermentation to
cease, then add dextrose and age for four to six weeks, using a
fermentation lock before bottling.
Magickal Associations: Fire and Sun magick, courage, vitality.
History/Lore: This ale, when properly made, has a color simi-
lar to amber, which was once thought to be the solidified es-
sence of the setting sun’s tears.
Alternatives: For a less bitter ale, eliminate Bullion hops.
Currant-Raspberry Delight
3 cups freshly picked 	1 lb. frozen or fresh currants
(red or black) 	raspberries (red)
3 cups water 	1 1/2 cups sugar (or to taste)
6 cups Absolut Kurant
Directions: Place raspberries and currants together in a pan
with water. Simmer over a low flame for two hours, pressing
frequently with the back of a spoon. Remove and strain, keep-
ing the fruit for tarts, ice cream topping, etc.
Place the juice back on the stove, slowly adding sugar. Taste
frequently, making sure to add a little more than you like be-
cause this sweetness will be toned down considerably when
you blend in the vodka. Bottle and age for one month.

180
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Magickal Associations: Sun and Fire magicks (note the deep red
color achieved in the finished product). If it comes out pink, it
might be more appropriate for friendship and improved attitudes.
History/Lore: Currants were sometimes imported to England
via Portugal along with oranges to benefit the Elizabethan table,
where they quickly became favored for all manner of sweets,
including jellies, comfits, and sotelties.
Alternative: For a smooth, older version of this beverage, use
honey instead of sugar, and add more Fire herbs like cinna-
mon and ginger during simmering.
Fruit Salad
2 peaches 	1/2 cup apricots
2 kiwi fruit 	1/2 cup strawberries
1/2 cup raspberries 	1 banana
1 cup skim milk or seltzer water 	1 cup vanilla yogurt
1 whole cherry (garnish)
Directions: Juice together the first six ingredients, then add the
liquid to the milk and yogurt, garnishing with a cherry.
Magickal Associations: Abundance of energy, joy, productivity,
and love. A good celebratory beverage for Summer rituals.
History/Lore: Apricots had their origins in Asia, where they
were known as “sun eggs” because of their rich golden color.
This magickally allows them to become an active energy source
for your beverage, on which the symbolism of the other fruits
is conveyed like bright beams of sunlight through your body.
Lunar Components
cabbage 	coconut 	cucumber
grape 	lemon 	lettuce
papaya 	potato 	blueberry
wintergreen 	egg 	melon
milk 	passion fruit 	white wine
yogurt

181
T h e 	R e c i p e s
For crystal tinctures, use beryl, moonstone, mother-of-
pearl, or selenite. Prepare these beverages in moonlight: a full
moon for fulfillment, a waxing moon for growth and progress,
and a waning moon for decrease and banishing. Serve in white
or silver cups.
Lemon Iced Tea
4 lemon tea bags 	1/2 cup orange liqueur
1 qt. boiling water 	1/2 cup raspberry liqueur
1 cup sugar 	2 cups soda water
Directions: Steep the tea bags in boiling water and dissolve the
sugar, allowing it to sit for 10 minutes before removing. Amount
of sugar may be decreased for personal taste. Chill the tea, add-
ing it cold to the liqueurs and soda (both likewise chilled). Pour
this over ice, garnished with a lemon wedge. This beverage has
a flavor similar to rainbow sherbet.
Magickal Associations: Positive experiences in relationships, es-
pecially new romance. Moon magick.
History/Lore: Lemons appearing in dreams, especially for
women, portend good luck in romance and possibly love soon
to follow.
Alternatives: Try dry champagne in place of soda water on
celebratory occasions.
Maternity Cordial
1 tsp. anise 	1 Tbsp. borage flowers
1 tsp. mugwort 	1 Tbsp. raspberry leaves
1 cup hot water 	2 tsp. ginseng
1 cup white grape juice 	1 cup peach brandy
Directions: Place your herbs in a tea ball and allow them to steep
in the hot water for 20 minutes. Chill this water, then add grape
juice and brandy over ice.
Magickal Associations: Maternal instincts, Moon magick, God-
dess energy, productivity.

182
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
History/Lore: Based on an idea presented in a recipe from the
1700s, this beverage not only encourages feminine fertility,
but also the general spirit of motherhood to nurture, care for,
and protect those we love.
Lunar Enchantment
1 pt. strawberries 	1/2 musk melon
1/2 honey dew melon 	1/2 orange
1 cup coconut milk 	honey to taste
Directions: Follow general directions for juicing, adding the
coconut milk last.
Magickal Associations: All lunar and Goddess magicks, espe-
cially those for completion of any creative project.
History/Lore: These round, watery fruits are under the ruling
of the Moon and as such are perfect ingredients for beverages
pertaining to artistic or imaginative endeavors.
V	V	V	V	V ERS	ERS	ERS	ERS	ERSA	A	A	A	ATILITY	TILITY	TILITY	TILITY	TILITY
“Important principles may and must be flexible”
—Abraham Lincoln
Some say the word Wicca developed indirectly from the
willow tree, whose flexible bows bend easily against the winds
of change, but do not break. The nature of our craft is to bend
and redirect energy. In the process of doing this we also need
to learn how to be flexible people whose spiritual expressions
change with our own growth and transformations in the world
around us.
Human beings, however, are very prone to habit. We like to
cut out a niche and stay in that comfortable abode. We like
life’s road to be straight, smooth, and pothole free. Unfortu-
nately, the path to magick and spiritual wholeness is rarely
any of those things. This means Witches must be ready to

183
T h e 	R e c i p e s
modify their life and their arts so that magick doesn’t stagnate
and die. Versatility beverages are designed to help us do just that.
Basil, willow bark, and catnip are three herbs that seem
to ease us into changes, as do strong lunar components such
as grapefruit, melon, and grape. More important than the in-
gredients, however, is the manner in which you make these
beverages. Use a blender, a microwave, or food processor as
each of these utensils is noted for its transformational quality.
The energy of your chosen kitchen tool then will saturate your
ingredients, which should have been carefully chosen for the
type of changes you’re undergoing.
If you wish to try a crystal tincture, I recommend amber.
Flexibility Font
1 gal. water 	3 lbs. fresh beets
5 oranges 	5 inches gingerroot
5 cups sugar 	1/2 pkg. wine yeast
Directions: Remove tops and roots of the beets, then chop the
remainder, placing them in a large pot with the water. Bring to
a low rolling boil, continuing to cook until tender (approzimately
40 minutes). Reduce heat to simmer, adding orange peel,
bruised and diced gingerroot, and the juice from the oranges.
Let this mixture steep for 15 minutes, then add sugar stirring
until dissolved. Cool until lukewarm and add yeast, which has
been suspended in one-quarter cup warm water. Place in a
large container for initial fermentation, using a balloon or fer-
mentation lock, and watching for all signs of fermentation to
cease. At this time taste your beverage and sweeten if neces-
sary. Put the mixture into a fresh jug, leaving any sediment in
the bottom of the old container. Allow to age for another two
months before bottling.
Magickal Associations: Versatility, adaptability, and awareness,
especially in interpersonal relationships.
History/Lore: A wine similar to this is sometimes used in
the Jewish Passover observances. Beet juice is considered

184
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
an appropriate magickal alternative to blood and is strongly
associated with human emotions, especially love. Five is used
repeatedly in this recipe to encourage the energy of insight.
Coffee Adaptation
8 oz. milk 	2 Tbsp. heavy cream
1/4 tsp. vanilla extract 	1 Tbsp. sugar
1 tsp. instant coffee 	1/4 tsp. butterscotch flavoring
dissolved in 1 tsp. water
Directions: Beat the heavy cream to peaking and put in a large
glass. Separately, blend your other ingredients until bubbly, then
pour over cream. This may also be prepared warm.
Magickal Associations: Energy, vigor, initiative, and stamina that
will help you move with the flow, rather than lag behind it.
History/Lore: Coffee beans originally were made into wine by
African nations, not the hot beverage we know today. It was
not until nearly 1000 C.E. when Arabs considered this alterna-
tive. The stimulating effect quickly became popular and also
gives us its natural magickal associations.
Heartening Hawthorn
2 cups hawthorn flowers 	2 cups water
1 ltr. peach juice 	1 tsp. almond extract
1 slice lemon 	1 slice orange
sugar or honey to taste
Directions: Place hawthorn flowers in warm water and allow to
steep for 30 minutes. Strain and pour this liquid into a larger
pan with remaining ingredients. Warm over low flame, adding
sugar or honey until desired sweetness is acquired. Serve over
ice chips with slivered almonds as garnish.
Magickal Associations: Revising goals using reason and instinct
as helpmates.
History/Lore: Known as the “flower of hope,” hawthorn sym-
bolized fertility and marriage in ancient Greece and Rome.

185
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Hawthorn was a favorite flower to adorn May Poles and is
part of the sacred Fairy tree trinity of Europe, the other two
being oak and ash.
Tea Tonic
1/4 cup Paraguay tea (mate) 	1 tsp. chamomile
1/8 cup rose-hips 	1 qt. boiling water
1 slice lemon 	honey or sugar
Directions: Prepare as you would any tea, using a tea ball or
cloth bag for the loose chamomile and rose hips. Lemon and
sugar are added in the cup per personal tastes.
Magickal Associations: Adjusting to erratic energies, centering,
and balance.
History/Lore: This beverage, besides having magickal restorative
features, is rich in caffeine, vitamins, and physically rejuve-
nating qualities.
V	V	V	V	V IC	IC	IC	IC	ICT	T	T	T	TOR	OR	OR	OR	ORY	Y	Y	Y	Y 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	S	S	S	S	S UC	UC	UC	UC	UCCESS	CESS	CESS	CESS	CESS
“The surest way not to fail is to determine
to succeed.”
—Richard Sheridan
Our society is very goal oriented, and even in our spiritual
studies we find ourselves ever striving for the elusive “brass
ring.” There’s really nothing wrong with that, so long as we’ve
built solid foundations upon which to stand as we stretch our
reach. However, even more than that, victory and success are
heavily dependent on our self-confidence and faith. Without
these two things, very little can be achieved mundanely or
magickally.
The beverages in this section, therefore, are aimed at inter-
nalizing the confidence and faith necessary to bring about suc-
cess, with a little luck and fortune tossed in for good measure.

186
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
The components commonly associated with these two goals
are:
bay 	chamomile 	grapes
radish 	rosemary 	nasturtium
lemon balm 	cinnamon 	ginger
Success seems to center around the sun, so you may wish to
make these beverages during the daylight hours. For crystal tinc-
tures use amazonite, malachite, bloodstone, agate, or amber.
Parsley Triumph
1 qt. pineapple sage leaves 	1/2 lb. parsley
1 gal. water 	1 lemon
1 orange 	3 lbs. orange blossom honey
1/2 pkg. yeast
Directions: Place the herbs in a large crock. Bring the water to a
full boil, then pour it over top the sage and parsley, allowing it
to sit for a full 24 hours before straining. Squeeze to express
any liquid from the herbs, then rewarm the herb water with the
sliced fruit and honey until mixed well. Continue warming for
20 minutes, then allow to cool, straining off the fruit just before
the addition of yeast. Proceed as in the basic recipe for wine.
Magickal Associations: Protection in new endeavors, preserving
prosperity, accomplishment, success, and overcoming obstacles.
History/Lore: In both Greece and Rome, parsley was a symbol
of victory and success. The plant itself was fabled to grow
from the blood of an ancient fallen hero named Archemorus.
Gingered Glory
1 cup room temperature 	2 pieces candied gingerroot
carbonated soda 	1 lemon balm leaf
dash of cinnamon (optional)
Directions: Follow general directions for soda pop, except place
this mixture in an airtight container for about an hour before
serving over ice for best flavor. If time is short, use some sweet-
ener and ginger extract instead.

187
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Magickal Associations: Sweet success, victory, positive culmi-
nation of efforts.
History/Lore Ginger is considered an herb, which accentuates
energy towards specific goals. The additional benefit of this
beverage is that it also tends to settle the stomach, allowing
you to really focus on your magickal rites.
Alternative: For success specifically in areas of personal aspira-
tions, add some expressed pomegranate juice to this mixture.
About two tablespoons is good.
Achievement Beer
3" piece fresh gingerroot 	1 lemon, peeled (retain) and
1/4 cup Northern Brewer 	juiced (retain)
Hops (if available) 	1 1/2 cups sugar
4 qts. hot water 	1/4 oz. suspended beer yeast
Directions: Mince and crush the ginger with the flat back of a
spoon or mortar and pestle. Put this in a large bowl with sugar
and lemon peel, pouring the boiling water over top. Stir in hops
and allow to steep until lukewarm. Now add lemon juice and
yeast mixture. Cover the entire bowl and allow to sit for at least
12 hours before straining and bottling. Ready within five days,
this beer retains good flavor for about a month.
Magickal Associations: Power, success, and victory.
History/Lore: Ginger was a widely known spice to the ancient
world, being written about by Confucius and being eaten readily
in cookies as early as the Egyptians in Cheops. This particular
recipe, however, comes from the American frontier days.
Alternatives: When you add the boiling water, also consider add-
ing various fruits to this mixture that reflect your goal. For ex-
ample, strawberries might be included for a successful
relationship.

188
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Sparkling Success
1 cup orange pekoe tea 	1 Tbsp. honey
1 cup orange juice 	1 cup ginger ale
3 strawberries (garnish) 	1 slice of orange (garnish)
Directions: Pre-prepare the orange tea (or orange spice). While
it is still warm, stir in honey to dissolve. Cool, then blend to-
gether with orange juice and ginger ale. Serve chilled or over
crushed ice with sliced strawberries and oranges for a bright,
invigorating drink.
Magickal Associations: Maintaining the energy, vitality, and
stamina necessary to reach your goals.
History/Lore: Tea has long been considered not only a social
drink, but one that helps calm and relax. By adding to this the
orange juice, noted for its healthful effects, and a little soda
for “energy bubbles,” this becomes a wonderful magick tonic
when you need a pick-me-up.
Conqueror’s Cup
1/2 handful of fresh woodruff 3 cups cider or apple juice
1 slice of orange 	2 to 3 whole strawberries
2 tsp. sugar
Directions: Rinse the woodruff and strawberries thoroughly.
Place your ingredients together in a bowl and mix well. To
increase the flavor, warm the cider or juice first. Chill the
bowl for a minimum of one hour before straining and pouring
into a large glass to enjoy. Garnish with the berries. A great
springtime refresher!
Magickal Associations: Success, prosperity, protection, espe-
cially in “battles.”
History/Lore: The beautiful white woodruff blossoms are con-
sidered sacred to the Goddess. In pre-Christian times, the
bouquet of this flower was used predominantly to scent a vari-
ety of drinks. In the Middle Ages, woodruff was thought a
good tonic for sickness, fever, and to purge the blood.

189
T h e 	R e c i p e s
W	W	W	W	W ISDOM	ISDOM	ISDOM	ISDOM	ISDOM
“Common sense in an uncommon degree is what
the world calls wisdom.”
—Samuel Taylor Coleridge
The path to enlightenment is filled with lessons aimed at
improving our wisdom—wise choices, wise thoughts, wise ac-
tions, wise words. We mark our elders and teachers in the
magickal community by their wisdom. Even so, it’s not always
an easy commodity to develop.
The beverages in this section are designed to help us inte-
grate the energies necessary to begin living with wisdom as an
ally. The ingredients for sagacity include:
almond 	blue beverages 	purple beverages
sage 	mulberries 	peach
honey 	hazelnut
Drink these brews from a golden cup, in the presence of
sunlight, which banishes the shadows of uncertainty. For crys-
tal elixirs use jade or sodalite.
Sage’s Beer
8 cups hot ale 	1 1/2 tsp. nutmeg
1 1/2 tsp. gingerroot, ground 	brown sugar to taste
8 baked apples, peeled and cored
Directions: Pulp the apple pith and brown sugar together until
you like the flavor that results. Add to this nutmeg and ginger.
Now, slowly add the warmed ale, stirring until well blended. If
desired, float some sweet cakes on top.
Magickal Associations: Earth magicks, the harvest, wisdom.
History/Lore: Known sometimes by English countrymen as
Lambs Wool, this drink was often prepared on the first day of
August to honor the angel who protects fruits, seeds, and all
that grows from the land. One cannot help but notice the simi-
larity of this term to “Lamas” or “La mas ubal,” which literally

190
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
translates to “day of the apple.” The number eight is used in
this recipe as a number for personal change, improved con-
trol, and the fulfillment of acumen.
Apple-Almond Erudition
1 gal. peach juice 	2 oz. sliced almonds
1 Tbsp. almond extract 	2 lbs. honey
1/2 pkg. yeast 	1 cup almond or peach liqueur
1 ltr. vodka or white rum
Directions: Warm the peach juice with the almonds over a low
flame for 20 minutes. Add honey, turning up the heat to boil
for 15 minutes, skimming all the while. Cool and add almond
extract. Add yeast and allow to sit in the open air for 24 hours
before straining into fermentation vessel. This will need a bal-
loon or lock to clarify for two months before siphoning off and
adding spirits. Age another year.
Magickal Associations: Sagacity.
History/Lore: Eating almonds inspires wisdom, as do peaches.
The additional benefit to the peach juice here is that it can
help you wisely obtain your desires. Make a wish before you
drink it!
Clarification Cup
1 cup apple juice wisdom 	1 tsp. lemon juice
1 tsp. honey 	cinnamon stick
1 cherry 	1 egg white, beaten
Directions: Warm the apple juice just to the point of almost
boiling, then add lemon and honey, which are stirred with the
cinnamon stick. Place egg white over the top of the drink with a
cherry in the middle (sundae style)!
History/Lore: The apple juice brings wisdom balanced against
lemon’s cleansing clarity. The entire hot beverage is immersed
in snow, with the cherry on the top to help improve personal
focus and balance. Visualize this in the middle of your gravity
center.

191
T h e 	R e c i p e s
Peachy Keen Punch
1 qt. peach juice 	1 tsp. rum extract
1 cup sugar 	1 lemon, juiced
1 lemon, thinly sliced
Directions: Mix the first four ingredients in a blender before
pouring into the punch bowl. For a frothy top, add one egg
white. Float lemon slices on top as garnish.
Magickal Associations: Sagacity, good judgment, and prudence.
History/Lore: The peach is a fruit of wisdom and its pit (the
core of growth) is a good addition to medicine bags.
Alternatives: If you have a group who has a particularly difficult
time with funding, add pineapple juice or chunks to this punch
to encourage wisdom in spending.
Spiced Lemon
1 gal. boiling water 	1" bruised ginger
1 stick cinnamon 	4 to 5 whole cloves
4 to 5 allspice beads 	1/2 tsp. cream of tartar
1 lb. sugar 	2 lemon peels grated
1/2 cup hop flowers 	juice of two lemons
1/4 pkg. active yeast
Directions: Place the first nine ingredients together in your
brewing pan and boil vigorously for 15 minutes. Strain and
cool, adding the juice from the two lemons previously peeled
and yeast, suspended in warm water. This needs to sit for 24
hours uncovered (or put some cheese cloth on top the pan to
keep dust out). Strain and bottle. Ready to drink in 5 to 7 days.
Magickal Associations: Wisdom, caution, clarity, prudence.
History/Lore: In the language of flowers, the lemon is a sign of
discretion, tolerance, and forbearance. Its tangy flavor helps
to bring lucidity and precision to mental functions.
Alternative: To further accent the cognitive energy of this bev-
erage, add two teaspoons of rosemary with the other herbs. This
beverage also makes a super marinade for chicken.

192
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Snow Song
2 cups pear juice 	1 slice of lemon
1 egg white, beaten
Directions: Pour pear juice into a large glass. Squeeze lemon
slice into the juice with one heaping teaspoon of beaten egg
white and stir. Place remaining egg white on top to look like
peaks of snow.
Magickal Associations: Clarity of thought.
History/Lore: Not only does this beverage have a pale white glim-
mer of snow, but the lemon adds precision to our contempla-
tive processes. Additionally, this beverage can improve your
focus in an emotional situation.
Alternatives: To improve wisdom with regard to spiritual insights,
add fresh or juiced peaches to this recipe.

193
APPENDIX A
B	B	B	B	B E	E	E	E	EVERAGES	VERAGES	VERAGES	VERAGES	VERAGES , I	, I	, I	, I	, I NGREDIENT	NGREDIENT	NGREDIENT	NGREDIENT	NGREDIENTS	S	S	S	S ,	,,	,,
AND	AND	AND	AND	AND 	D	D	D	D	D IVINE	IVINE	IVINE	IVINE	IVINE /M	/M	/M	/M	/M AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL	AGICKAL
A	A	A	A	A SSOCIA	SSOCIA	SSOCIA	SSOCIA	SSOCIATIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS	TIONS
“He (Osiris) also invented the beverage made from barley
called beer, and which in taste and flavor is not much inferior
to wine. He taught its preparation to those whose country is
unsuited for the cultivation of the vine.”
—Diodor Sic., IV.2
Those readers wishing to make beverages to use as offer-
ings, libations, and/or for serving at thematic celebrations will
find this appendix very helpful. Here you can review various in-
gredients for their elemental associations, common magickal
applications, and deities to whom they were considered sacred.
From there it isn’t too hard to design a brew suited to your needs,
the ritual’s focus, and/or the sacred power being venerated.
To illustrate: The festival of Summer solstice is best observed
with Fire-oriented beverages, because it celebrates the power of
light over darkness. In this case, one might create a beer to which
cinnamon or another “Fire” herb has been added. This beverage
would also be suited to several Egyptian deities, including Isis.
As a libation, it would work very effectively to increase power
and protection in the sacred circle. There’s nothing that says you
can’t multitask your beverages! In fact, I encourage it.

194
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
In reviewing this list, bear in mind it is very abbreviated
and limited to edible items. It would take an entire book to
cover all the magickal, spiritual, and religious symbolism be-
hind all the potential ingredients for your brews. Consequently,
I highly recommend getting a couple of metaphysical herb or
food books to act as backup resources. In particular, Paul
Beyerl’s Herbal Magick, Scott Cunningham’s Magick in Food,
and my Magick Made Easy are all good reference, to which
you can turn again and again in your mystical arts.
Ale or Beer: Elementally Fire. Used regularly for offerings
and purification. Sacred to Tenemit, Isis, and Hathor in
Egypt, Shoney in Scotland, and Kremana in Slavonic re-
gions.
Allspice: Elementally Fire. An herb of luck, prosperity, health,
and productive imagining.
Almond: Elementally Air. Magickally attuned to money mat-
ters, devotion, love, and self-sufficiency. Sacred to Artemis,
Cybele, Hecate, and Zeus in Greece, Ptah in Egypt, and
Chandra in India.
Anise: Elementally Air. An herb of energy, purification, and
blessing. Sacred to Apollo, Mercury, and Hermes (Greco-
Roman).
Apple: Elementally Water. Apple juice provides discernment,
health, prudence, love, and inner vision. Sacred to numer-
ous deities including Induna and Odin (Norse), Venus and
Apollo (Rome), and Zeus and Hera (Greece).
Banana: Elementally Air. Banana promotes male sexuality,
devotion, and safety. Also an appropriate flavoring for
Summerland (death) rituals. Sacred to Kanaloa (Hawaii).
Basil: Elementally Fire. Use this for house blessing libations,
initiatory beverages, purification, and courage. Sacred to
Krishna and Vishnu (India).

195
B e v e r a g e s , I n g r e d i e n t s , a n d A s s o c i a t i o n s
Bay: Elementally Fire. An herb of vitality, protection, suc-
cess, and power. Whole bay leaves can promote these en-
ergies just as garnishes. Sacred to Eros, Apollo, and Ado-
nis (Greece), Buddha (India), and Fides (Rome).
Blackberry: Elementally Water. Use this for magickal healing
beverages. A suitable offering for Venus (Rome).
Caraway: Elementally Air. Used extensively in love and devo-
tion potions, as well as an herb that promotes Earth-healing.
Suited as a flavoring for post-harvest celebratory feasts where
it promotes wisdom with our resources.
Carrot: Elementally Fire. Carrot juice encourages a deep con-
nection with the sensual/sexual self, especially in men. Also
helps ground out excess energy and promote insight. It is
not associated with a deity that I could discern.
Catnip: Elementally Water. An herb of fertility, charm, play-
fulness, and instinct. Sacred to Bast (Egypt).
Celery: Elementally Fire (with strong Water undertones).
Magickally used for mental clarity and to promote passion
(thus the combination of Fire/Water). It was not associated
with a deity that I could discern.
Chamomile: Elementally Fire. Use chamomile for any solar
observance. It is also suited to garden libations, health,
peacefulness, and new beginnings.
Cherry: Elementally Water. A fruit juice filled with psychic
energy, love, and playfulness. An excellent choice for
pathworking rituals where creativity and sensitivity are re-
quired. Many magickal practitioners feel cherry-flavored
beverages are suitable for honoring the youthful Goddess.
Cinnamon: Elementally Fire. A good aromatic for strength
and success. Sacred to Greco-Roman love goddesses like
Aphrodite and Venus, which is the reason it was used as
an aphrodisiac.

196
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Clove: Elementally Fire. An herb of protection, prosperity,
and kinship and love. If you have a Malaysian god or god-
dess that you follow, this is considered a suitable offering
for him or her.
Coconut: Elementally Water. Excellent for lunar magick of
any type. Sacred to the goddess Sri in India.
Coffee: Elementally Fire. Drink to stimulate the conscious
mind, alertness, and for hospitality rituals.
Cranberry: Elementally Water (as juice) or Fire (in berry form
due to color). A good protective juice that is sacred to
Marjatta, a youthful Finish goddess. Ideal for Yule rituals.
Currant: Elementally Fire and Water. A fruit of abundance.
Use red currants for Fire festivals and white ones for Win-
ter rituals.
Daisy: Elementally Water. A flower that represents youth, sim-
plicity, and future telling. Sacred to Freya (Germany).
Dandelion: Elementally Air. A flower attuned to wish magick,
astral awareness, and divination. Sacred to Hecate and
Theseus (Greece).
Dill: Elementally Fire. This herb protects from negative magick,
encourages restfulness, friendship, and mental clarity. Ex-
cellent ingredient for unity/fellowship rituals.
Fennel: Elementally Fire. Suited to protection, physical health,
and for banishing ill-intended magick. Sacred to Prometheus
(Greek).
Fig: Elementally Fire. This fruit adds power, love, wisdom, en-
lightenment, and fecundity to beverages. Sacred to Ra and
Isis (Egypt), Brahma (India) and Juno (Greece).
Garlic: Elementally Fire. Use garlic for protection, Fire magick,
and when working with the goddess Hecate (Greek).

197
B e v e r a g e s , I n g r e d i e n t s , a n d A s s o c i a t i o n s
Ginger: Elementally Fire. An herb of victory, power, prosper-
ity, and romance. A good ingredient for beverages and brews
aimed at consecration.
Grain: Elementally Earth. Used mostly for beer or liquefied
nutrition for invalids, grains are aligned with energy for luck,
prosperity, and good health. Barley was sacred to Demeter
(Greece) and Vishnu (India).
Grape: Elementally Water. The fruit of celebration, joy, and
abundance. Sacred to Bacchus (Rome), Hathor (Egypt), and
Iznagi (Japan).
Heather: Elementally Water. A flower found in wines, teas,
and some meads, heather evokes good fortune, inner beauty,
networking, and self-awareness. An excellent ingredient for
rain libations, or invoking Isis (Egypt) and Venus (Rome).
Honey: Elementally Air. Honey purifies, attracts happiness,
motivates fertility, inspires romance, and generally brings
“sweetness” to the energy of your brews. Sacred to many
deities including Min (Egypt), Ea (Babylon), Artemis
(Greece), and Kama (India).
Kiwi: Elementally Water. A fruit that fosters hopeful, inno-
cent love and a sense of relaxation. A good addition to Sum-
mer beverages.
Lavender: Elementally Air. This herb brings inner peace, de-
creases stress, and promotes joy. Often used for wedding
rituals and to invoke Saturn.
Lemon: Elementally Water. Lemon juice bears the energy of
purification, refreshment, unity, and longevity. Sacred to the
Buddhist deity Jambhala.
Lime: Elementally Water. Use lime juice to attract the Fairy folk
and devas, especially those that abide in the stones and soil.
Mango: Elementally Fire. Use mango juice to inspire romance
and love. Sacred to Buddha.

198
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Marigold: Elementally Fire. Use this in beverages for Fire,
solar festivals, or summerland rituals, and as an ingredient
that accents love, peace, inner vision, consecration, and
truthfulness. Sacred to Mary in Christianity.
Marjoram: Elementally Air. An herb of happiness, bounty,
health, and overall well-being. Sacred to Venus (Rome) and
therefore quite suited to marriage rituals.
Milk: Elementally Water. Attuned to the Goddess aspect, ma-
ternal instincts, and lunar energy. Sacred to Hathor and Isis
(Egypt), and Zeus (Greek), among others.
Mint: Elementally Air. An herb of blessing, success, prosper-
ity, revitalization, and passion. Sacred to Pluto (Rome).
Mulberry: Elementally Air. This fruit juice bears wisdom, prac-
ticality, psychism, and inventiveness to the drinker. Sacred
to Minerva (Rome).
Nutmeg: Elementally Fire. Nutmeg brings good fortune, fidel-
ity, and well-being. Sacred to many Indian gods and goddesses.
Orange: Elementally Fire. Orange provides us with love, luck,
prosperity, health, and devotion. Sacred to Apollo and Hera
(Greece). Because of its tropical nature and color, a good
solar symbol and recommended juice for Sun festivals.
Passion Fruit: Elementally Water. This fruit inspires exactly
what you’d expect from its name: romance and passion. It
can also promote friendship and peace.
Peach: Elementally Water. Peaches bear the energies of lon-
gevity, good wishes, protection, wisdom, and fertility. Sacred
to Hai Wang Ma (China) and Iznagi (Shinto).
Pear: Elementally Water. A good fruit for magickal lust, zeal,
and enthusiasm. Sacred to Athena (Greece).
Pineapple: Elementally Fire. This promotes good fortune,
prosperity, dedication, safety, hospitality, and follow-
through. It is also a good cleanser.

199
B e v e r a g e s , I n g r e d i e n t s , a n d A s s o c i a t i o n s
Plum: Elementally Water. Plums provide energy for adora-
tion, respect, and protection. A suitable juice or wine to
use in offerings to Japanese gods and goddesses.
Pomegranate: Elementally Fire. This fruit manifests creative
vision, inventiveness, and prosperity. It is also a blood sub-
stitute for old spells that call for it. Sacred to Dionysus and
Persephone (Greece), and Ceres (Rome), among others.
Potato: Elementally Earth. Use this vegetable to ground out
excess energy, for Earth-centered magicks, and to promote
health. Sacred to the Potato Mother (Peru).
Quince: Elementally Earth. Good for beverages aimed at hap-
piness, safety, and personal fulfillment. Sacred to Venus
(Rome).
Raspberry: Elementally Water. Use this to encourage love,
protection, happiness, and abundance. Figuratively also a
good juice when you want to shake off negative influences
(e.g. giving them the “raspberry”).
Rhubarb: Elementally Earth. This encourages protection,
faithfulness, devotion, and well-being.
Rice Milk: Elementally Air. Rice has amuletic qualities and
boosts the fertile energy of a beverage. Sacred to the god-
dess Ukemochi (Shinto).
Rose: Elementally Water. The pinnacle of love potions, and a
nice addition to those for health, divination, intuition, and
sensual awareness. Sacred to Venus (Rome) and Aphrodite
(Greece).
Rosemary: Elementally Fire. Memory retention, the conscious
mind, purification, responsibility, fidelity, and youthful en-
ergy are found in this herb. Sacred to Venus (Rome) and
Mary in Christianity.
Saffron: Elementally Fire. Excellent herb for solar observances.
Also attuned to magick for weather changes, prosperity, joy,

200
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
psychism, leadership, and passion. Sacred to Eos (Greece),
Amon Ra (Egypt), and Brahma (Hindu).
Sage: Elementally Air. An herb of wisdom, mental wellness,
decision-making, health, and good business sense. Sacred
to Cornus (Rome) and Zeus (Greece).
Strawberry: Elementally Water. Use strawberries to emphasize
happiness, love, and a youthful outlook. An excellent flavor-
ing for Lammas rituals. Sacred to Freya (Norse/Teutonic).
Sugar: Elementally Earth. A key ingredient to improve nega-
tive dispositions. Also a good offering for ancestral spirits.
Tea: Elementally Fire and Water. Tea brings prosperity, cour-
age, strength, vitality, health, and inner peace. A suitable
offering for many Chinese and Japanese deities.
Thyme: Elementally Water. Use thyme to motivate bravery,
fortitude, cleansing, awareness, and as a gardening libation.
A suitable offering for fairies and devas.
Vanilla: Elementally Water. Vanilla bean or pure flavoring is
magickally geared toward productivity, energy, mental
awareness, and love.
Watermelon: Elementally Water. Add this to beverages for
love, health, and fertility. Sacred to Set (Egypt).
Wine: Elementally Fire with Water undertones. An excellent
offering for many divine beings. Wine has an overall upbeat
energy, promoting happiness. Sacred to Gestin (Sumeria),
Ishtar (Mesopotamia), Osiris and Isis (Egypt), and Bacchus
(Rome).
Yogurt: Elementally Water. Use this to emphasize spirituality,
awareness, and health.

201
APPENDIX B
S	S	S	S	S YMBOLISM	YMBOLISM	YMBOLISM	YMBOLISM	YMBOLISM 	AND	AND	AND	AND	AND
C	C	C	C	C OR	OR	OR	OR	ORRESP	RESP	RESP	RESP	RESPONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES
Symbolism is very important to magick. It gives sensual
forms to our desires and improves our overall focus. It also
provides very real emotional connections to the process, which
in turn increases manifesting energy. You may want to use some
of these ideas in preparing your own witchy beverages and brews,
so here are some correspondence lists to which to refer.
C	C	C	C	C OL	OL	OL	OL	OLOR	OR	OR	OR	OR C	C	C	C	C OR	OR	OR	OR	ORRESP	RESP	RESP	RESP	RESPONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES
Choose your ingredients’ colors so they represent the goal
of the magick. Note: It need not be just one color—you can
blend hues to likewise blend energies. Also, if you can’t find
ingredients of the correct color, don’t overlook food coloring!
Blue 	Peace, joy, tranquility, the Water element.
Brown 	Grounding, foundations, the Earth element.
Orange 	Friendship, warmth, and productivity.
Green 	Growth, healing, hope (alternative Earth
element).
Purple 	Spirituality, leadership, and wisdom.
Red 	Vitality, energy, passion, the Fire element.
White 	Purity, spirit, Goddess magick.
Yellow 	Communication, creativity, God magick, the
Air element.

202
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
N	N	N	N	N UMBER	UMBER	UMBER	UMBER	UMBER C	C	C	C	C OR	OR	OR	OR	ORRESP	RESP	RESP	RESP	RESPONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES
There are three very easy ways to use numeric symbolism
in your potions. First is by having a set number of ingredients.
This is a really nice option when you don’t have components
that adequately represent your goal. Here, the number becomes
your symbolic value on which to focus.
The second option is stirring the blend a set number of
times. Move clockwise for positive, growing energy and
counter clockwise for banishing or diminishing energies. If this
number is not sufficient for blending your brew, you have
two options. First you can use a larger number that breaks
down to your desired number through numerological reduc-
tion. For example: 21 = 2+1 = 3. The other option is to mix
up the beverage completely and then add an incantation, vi-
sualization, or other magickal method on the last few stirs.
Finally, if you’re making beer, wine, or other aged bever-
ages, you can time the preparation so that the number of days,
weeks, months, or years that you age it is significant. For ex-
ample, a beverage being served at initiation might be aged for
a year and a day—the traditional amount of time a novice stud-
ies before taking this step.

203
S y m b o l i s m
1 	Singularity, beginnings, the Sun, and
the self.
2 	Duality, alternatives, partnerships.
3 	Body-mind-spirit connection,
fortitude, symmetry.
4 	The Earth element, success,
achievement, foundations.
5 	Insight, adaptability, flexibility.
6 	Determination, completion,
protection.
7 	Diversity, awareness, the Moon.
8 	Wholeness, leadership, change,
power.
9 	Universal truths.
10 	Fulfillment, the conscious/logical
mind.
12 	Cycles, endurance.
13 	Certainty, devotion, abundance.

204
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
T	T	T	T	T IMING	IMING	IMING	IMING	IMING 	C	C	C	C	C OR	OR	OR	OR	ORRESP	RESP	RESP	RESP	RESPONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES	ONDENCES
Most people use the Moon’s cycles, if they’re schedules al-
low, in brewing up magickal beverages. This is the easiest celes-
tial object to track, as its phases are often put on even mundane
calendars these days! While it is certainly not necessary to use
timing as an additional dimension to your witchy efforts, it can
help when other factors are lacking (like the right ingredients).
Dark Moon 	Focus on brews for banishing negativity,
those intended to bring rest, or those that
will be applied to weed out old habits or
ideas.
Waxing Moon 	Considered the best time to make alcoholic
beverages for pleasing results. Magickally
attuned to growth, progress, improvements,
and generating positive energy.
Full Moon 	Completion and fulfillment are in this
phase, along with plenty of power for
manifestation. Also an excellent time to
make goddess-oriented beverages, or
those for psychic endeavors.
Waning 	A phase that symbolizes slow reduction or
disappearance. If there’s something you want
to “phase out” of your life, this is an ideal
time to try your magick.
Blue Moon 	Miracles—expect anything!
If you find you have trouble using moon phases, try seasons
or holidays instead. For example, any harvest festival like
Thanksgiving is a good time to work with apple juice and other
harvest-related fruit/vegetable juices. Autumn also accentu-
ates the ability to “harvest” whatever energies you’ve sown
earlier in the year. Similarly, on May Day—a traditional Fire
festival—make a beverage that’s filled with fiery herbs or fruits
to honor the day.

205
APPENDIX C
P	P	P	P	P O	O	O	O	OSSIBLE	SSIBLE	SSIBLE	SSIBLE	SSIBLE 	B	B	B	B	B RE	RE	RE	RE	REWING	WING	WING	WING	WING 	D	D	D	D	D EITIES	EITIES	EITIES	EITIES	EITIES
“These things surely lie on the knees of the gods”
—Homer
Reading the myths and legends of many cultures is an en-
riching experience. In the process, you get a clearer understand-
ing of how diverse our world has been throughout history, and
insight into why we are as well as who we are. Among these
legends, many Divine images appear, and reappear, inspiring
humanity towards better living.
Earlier in this book, I briefly mentioned calling on a Divine
presence to bless magickal-brewing efforts. The obvious ques-
tion for most Wiccans and Pagans is which visage of god/goddess
to choose? Ultimately, we could look to one which rules over a
specific attribute or element, such as Thor for weather-related
beverages used in libations, or Athena for elixirs of romance.
Beyond this, we can also consider the gods and goddesses who
have somehow been associated with a specific beverage, fruit,
spice, vegetable, or grain according to our chosen ingredients
(see also Appendix A).
Either of these approaches is perfectly good. Just decide
which one makes the most sense to, and works the best for,
you. Also weigh the possibility of calling on two or more gods
and goddesses; one who can sanctify the metaphysical goals
of your brew, and another to consecrate the components. This

206
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
approach is nice because it affords an improved spiritual bal-
ance in your work environment and the final product.
Besides those provided in Appendix A, below are some
possible gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and even saints to
choose from, including their country of origin and spheres of
influence. This list could be much longer, but I have limited
myself to some of the more interesting and assorted options
here. For additional ideas, look at fruits or spices sacred to your
patron Deities and check resource books like The Witches God,
The Witches Goddess (Janet & Stewart Farrar) and Ancient
Shining Ones (DJ Conway).
Apollo: 	Greek; as a god of science, music, and
poetry, Apollo is sometimes associated
with mead. His “science” aspect
combined with art make him a good
choice to call on to hone your skills in
general brewing efforts.
Ahurani: 	Persian; goddess of water.
Anat: 	Canaanite; fertility goddess who is
appropriate for any milk-based beverage.
Aphrodite: 	Greek; goddess of love. Any beverage
with roses, clover, sweet aromas, or apples.
Athena: 	Greek; warrior goddess. Any beverage
with coconut. In Rome known as Minerva.
Baldur: 	Norse; god of sacred wells and light.
Good for non-alcoholic beverages that
are going to be used for magick.
Binah: 	Hebrew; the supernatural Mother also
known as “she who nourishes.” Her
cabalistic symbol is the cup.
Blodeuwedd: 	Welsh; known as “flower face,” any
flower-based drinks, especially those with
broom or meadowsweet.

207
P o s s i b l e 	B r e w i n g 	D i e t i e s
Bragi: 	Norse; keeper of the mead of inspiration,
god of eloquence and wisdom.
Buddhi: 	Tibetan; goddess of achievement. Ask for
her aid in learning your art(s).
Carmenta: 	Roman; inventor of arts and sciences,
similar in function to Buddhi.
Ceres: 	Roman; goddess of agriculture.
Appropriate for most beverages, but beer
especially.
Cerridwen: 	Welsh; goddess of the cauldron and grain.
Chicomecoatz: 	Aztec; goddess of maize and rural
abundance; good for corn-based drinks
and harvest festival beverages.
Cormus: 	Greek; god of laughter and mirth, good
for celebratory brewing efforts.
Dionysus: 	Greek; god of wine and mead. In Rome
known as Bacchus or Liber and has
similar personifications in almost every
culture.
Esculapius: 	Greek; god of physick and all health
beverages.
Euphrosyne: 	Greek; muse who rejoices the heart.
Frigg: 	Norse; personification of Earth, especially
appropriate for beverages of libation.
Gambrinus: 	Germanic; dubbed the inventor of beer
and patron saint of beer and brewers in
this country.
Ganemede: 	The cupbearer to Jupiter, good for
hospitality.
Gibil: 	Babylonian; god of arbitration, especially
good for beverages prepared for oath
cups or peace cups.

208
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Gunnloed: 	Teutonic; god of mead.
Hesperides: 	Greek; three sisters with golden apples in
their magick garden.
Hygeia: 	Greek; goddess of health.
I: 	Chinese; god of archery who possesses the
drink of immortality.
Idun: 	Norse; keeper of apples of immortality.
Isis: 	Egyptian; goddess whose sacred fruits
include figs and dates and whose offerings
often consisted of beer, milk, and wine.
Ivenopae: 	Indonesian; Mother of rice, good to bless
saki. Also consider Inari from Japan or
Gauri from India as alternatives.
Kanaloa: 	Hawaii; goddess whose sacred fruit is the
banana.
Lares and Penates: Roman; home and hearth gods.
Momus: 	Greek; god of raillery.
Nikkal: 	Canaanite; goddess of first fruits, good for
beverages to be used in offerings.
Oegir: 	Norse; beer brewer of Asgard.
Omacatl: 	Aztec; god of delight and celebration.
Osiris: 	Egyptian; god of cereals and common
people, especially appropriate for beer.
Pomona: 	Roman; goddess of fruits and Autumn. All
fruit-based beverages or harvest drinks.
Shoney: 	Scotland; god of ale. Mirrored in Egypt
by Tenemit.
Thor: 	Norse; red fruited drinks.
Vertumnus: 	Roman; god of orchards.
Wang Mu: 	China; goddess who was served the
peaches of immortality.

209
APPENDIX D
U.S.	U.S.	U.S.	U.S.	U.S. 	T	T	T	T	TO	O	O	O	O 	M	M	M	M	M E	E	E	E	ETRIC	TRIC	TRIC	TRIC	TRIC
C	C	C	C	C ONVERSION	ONVERSION	ONVERSION	ONVERSION	ONVERSION 	C	C	C	C	C HAR	HAR	HAR	HAR	HART	T	T	T	T
DRY MEASURE
k cup 	70 ml
a cup 	105 ml
j cup 	140 ml
l cup 	210 ml
1 cup 	275 ml
WEIGHT
1 oz. 	30 g
2 oz. 	60 g
4 oz. 	115 g
6 oz. 	170 g
8 oz. 	225 g
10 oz. 	280 g
12 oz. 	340 g
14 oz. 	400 g
16 oz. 	450 g

210
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
LIQUID MEASURE
1 oz. 	30 ml
2 oz. / k cup 	60 ml
4 oz. / j cup 	120 ml
6 oz. / l cup 	180 ml
8 oz. / 1 cup 	235 ml
1 j cup 	355 ml
16 oz. / 2 cups 	475 ml
32 oz. / 4 cups 	950 ml
64 oz. / 2 qt. 	1.9 l
128 oz. / gallon 	3.8 l
LENGTH
k inch 	6.5 mm
j inch 	13 mm
l inch 	19 mm
1 inch 	25 mm
TEMPERATURE
(Fahrenheit minus 32 degrees; multiply the remainder by 5/9 = Celsius)
200° Fahrenheit 	93° Celsius
250° F 	120° C
300° F 	150 C
325° F 	163° C
350° F 	177° C
375° F 	190° C
400° F 	205° C
425° F 	218° C
450° F 	232° C

211
B	B	B	B	B IBLIOGRAPHY	IBLIOGRAPHY	IBLIOGRAPHY	IBLIOGRAPHY	IBLIOGRAPHY
Arnold, John P. Origin and History of Beer and Brewing.
Chicago: Wahl-Henius Institute of Fermentology, 1911.
Aylett, Mary. Country Wines. London: Odhams, 1953.
Baker, Margaret. Folklore & Customs of Rural England.
Totawa, NJ: Rowman & Littlefield, 1974.
Bartlett, John. Familiar Quotations. Boston: Little Brown &
Co., 1938.
Belt, T. Edwin. Vegetable, Herb & Cerial Wines. London: Mills
& Boon LTD, 1971.
_________. Flower, Leaf & Sap Wines. London: Mills &
Boon LTD, 1971.
Beyerl, Paul. Herbal Magick. Custer, WA: Phoenix Publising,
1998.
Beyerl, Paul. Master Book of Herbalism. Custer, WA: Phoenix
Publishing, 1984.
Black, William George. Folk Medicine. New York: Burt
Franklin, 1883.
Broth, Patricia, and Don Broth. Food in Antiquity. New
York: Frederick A. Praeger, 1969.
Chase, A. W. M.D. Receipt Book & Household Physician.
Detroit, MI: F. B. Dickerson Company, 1908.
Chase, Edithe L., W. E. P. French. Waes Hale. New York:
Grafton Press, 1903.

212
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Chow, Kit, and Kramer Ione. All the Tea in China. San
Francisco: China Books and Periodicals, 1990.
Clarkson, Rosetta. Green Enchantment. New York:
McMillian Publishing, 1940.
Clifton, C. Edible Flowers. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1976.
Complete Anachronist Guide to Brewing. Milpitas, CA:
Society for Creative Anactronsim, 1983.
Culpepper, Nicholas. Complete Herbal and English
Physician. Glenwood, IL: Meyerbooks, 1991. 	Originally
published 1841.
Cunningham, Scott. Encyclopedia of Magical Herbs. St.
Paul, MN: Llewellyn Publications, 1988.
_________. The Magic in Food. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn
Publications, 1991.
_________. The Magic of Incense, Oils and Brews.
St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn Publications, 1988.
Davids, Kenneth. Coffee. San Francisco: 101 Productions,
1976.
Digby, Kenelm. The Closet Opened. London: E.L.T. Brome,
Little Britian, 1696.
Doorn, Joyce V. Making your own Liquors. San Leandro,
CA: Prism Press, 1977.
Elspan, Ceres. Herbs to Help you Sleep. Boulder, CO:
Shambhala Press, 1980.
Every Day Life through the Ages. London: Readers Digest
Association, 1992.
Foster, Carol. Cooking with Coffee. New York: Fireside
Books, 1992.
Fox, William M.D. Family Botanic Guide, 18th edition.
Sheffield, England: William Fox and Sons, 1907.
Freeman, Margaret. Herbs for the Medieval Household for
cooking, Healing and Divers Uses. New York: Metropolitan
Museum of Art, 1943.

213
B i b l i o g r a p h y
Freid, Mimi. Liquors for Gifts. Charlotte, VT: Garden Way
Publishing, 1988.
French, R. K. The History and Virtues of Cyder. New York:
St. Martin’s Press, 1982.
Gayre, Robert. Brewing Mead, Boulder, CO: Brewers
Publications, 1986.
Gordon, Lesley. Green Magic. New York: Viking Press, 1977.
Haggard, Howard W. M.D. Mystery, Magic and Medicine.
Garden City, NY: Doubleday & Co., 1933.
Hale, William Harlan. Horizon Cookbook & Illustrated
History of Eating and Drinking. Garden City, NY:
Doubleday and Company, 1968.
Hall, Manly. Secret Teachings of All Ages. Los Angeles:
Philosophical Research Society, 1977.
Hardwick, Homer. Winemaking at Home. New York:
W. Funk, 1954.
Hechtlinger, Adelaide. The Seasonal Hearth. New York:
Overlook Press, 1986.
Hiss, Emil. Standard Manual of Soda & Other Beverages.
Chicago, IL: GP Englehand & Co, 1897.
Hobson, Phyllis. Wine, Beer & Softdrinks. Charlotte, VT:
Garden Way Publishing.
Honey, Babs. Drinks for All Seasons. Wakefield, England:
E.P. Publishing Ltd, 1982.
Hopkins, Albert A. Home Made Beverages. New York:
Scientific American Publishing Company, 1919.
Hosletters US Almanac. Pittsburg, PA: Hosletter Co, 1897.
Hunter, Beatrice. Fermented Foods and Beverages. New
Canaan, CT: Keats Publishing, 1973.
Hutchinson, Ruth, and Ruth Adams. Every Day’s a Holiday.
New York: Harper & Brothers, 1951.
Jagendorf, M. A.. Folk Wines, Cordials & Brandies. New
York: Vanguard Press, 1963.

214
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Kieckhefer, Richard. Magic in the Middle Ages. Melbourne,
Australia: Cambridge University Press, 1989.
Long, Cheryl. Classic Liqueurs. Oswego, OR: Culinary Arts,
1990.
Lorie, Peter. Superstitions. New York: Simon & Schuster,
1992.
Lowe, Carl. Juice Power. New York: Berkley Books, 1992.
Luce, Henry R., editor. Beverages. Alexandria, VA: Time Life
Books, 1982.
MacNicol, Mary. Flower Cookery. New York: Fleet Press,
1967.
Magnall, Richmal. Historical and Miscellanious Questions.
London, England: Longman, Brown, Green and
Longman, 1850.
Mares, William. Making Beer. New York: Alfred A. Knopf
Co, 1992.
Marshall, Mac, ed., Beliefs, Behaviors and Alcoholic
Beverages. Michigan: University of Michigan Press, 1979.
Murray, Keith. Ancient Rites & Ceremonies. Toronto, Canada:
Tudor Press, 1980.
Murray, Michael T. The Healing Power of Herbs. Rocklin,
CA: Prima Publishing, 1992.
Olney, Bruce. Liqueurs, Aperitifs and Fortified Wines. London,
England: Mills & Boon LTD, 1972.
Opie, Iona and Moria Tatem. Dictionary of Superstitions.
New York: Oxford University Press, 1989.
Palaiseul, Jean. Grandmother’s Secrets. New York: G. P.
Putnam’s Sons, 1974.
Paulsen, Kathryn. The Complete Book of Magic & WitchCraft.
New York: Signet Books, 1970.
Plat, Hugh. Delights for Ladies. London: Hvmfrey Lownes,
1602.

215
B i b l i o g r a p h y
Roberts, Annie Lise. Cornucopia: The Lore of Fruits and
Vegitables. New York: Knickerbocker Press, 1998.
Ryall, Rhiannon. West Country Wicca. Custer, WA: Phoenix
Publishing, 1989.
Schapira, Joel, David and Karl. The Book of Coffee and Tea.
New York: St. Martins Press, 1906.
Singer, Charles J.. Early English Magic and Medicine. London:
British Academy, 1920.
Skinner, Charles M. Myths and Legends of Flowers, Trees,
Fruits and Plants. Philadelphia: Lippincott, 1925.
Tannahill, Reay. Food in History. New York: Three Rivers
Press, 1998.
Tchudi, Stephen N. Soda Poppery. New York: Charles
Scribner Sons, 1942.
Telesco, Patricia. Folkways. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn
Publications, 1994.
____________. Magick Made Easy. San Francisco: Harper
Collins San Francisco, 1999.
____________. A Victorian Flower Oracle. St. Paul, MN:
Llewellyn Publications, 1994.
____________. A Victorian Grimoire. St. Paul, MN: Llewellyn
Publications, 1992.
Tillona, P. Feast of Flowers. New York: Funk & Wagnall,
1969.
Turgeon, Charlotte. ed., Encyclopedia of Creative Cooking.
New York: Weathervane Press, 1982.
Turner, B. C. A. Fruit Wines. London: Mills & Boon LTD,
1973.
Urdag, Geore. The Squib Ancient Pharmacy. New York:
Squibb and Sons, 1940.
Walker, Barbara. Womens Dictionary of Sacred Symbols and
Objects. San Francisco: Harper Row, 1988.

216
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Websters Universal Unabridged Dictionary. New York: World
Syndicate Publishing, 1937.
Wheelwrite, Edith Grey. Medicinal Plant and Their History.
New York: Dover Publications, 1974.
Whiteside, Lorraine. Fresh Fruit Drinks. New York Thorsons
Publishers, 1984.
Williams, Judith. Judes Home Herbal. St. Paul, MN:
Llewellyn Publications, 1992.
Woodward, Nancy Hyden. Teas of the World. New York:
Macmillan Publishing Company, 1980.
Younger, William. Gods, Men & Wine. Cleveland, OH: World
Publishing, 1966.

217
A	A	A	A	A
Abundance and prosperity,
recipes for, 62-67
Alternate uses of brews,
28-29
Anointing, 28
Asperging, 28
Awareness, recipes for,
166-171
B	B	B	B	B
Balance, recipes for, 67-70
Banishment, recipes for,
70-75
Baptism, 29
Basic recipes, 39-55
Bathing, 28
Beauty and glamoury,
recipes for, 75-78
IIIII NDEX	NDEX	NDEX	NDEX	NDEX
Beer,
brewing, 42-43
in religious and magickal
settings, 16-17
non-alcoholic, 43-44
Beverages to enhance food,
36-37
Beverages, history of, 15-26
Brewing tools, basic, 40-42
C	C	C	C	C
Change and transformation,
recipes for, 79-82
Chinese legend, 22
Cider, and medicinal
purposes, 24
Cleansing and purification,
recipes for, 83-88
Coffee, in religious and
magickal settings, 17
Color correspondences, 201

218
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Commitment, recipes for,
96-99
Communication, recipes for,
88-92
Conscious mind, recipes for
a, 92-96
Conversion chart, metric,
209-210
Correspondences,
color, 201
number, 202-203
timing, 204
Creativity, recipes for,
134-137
D	D	D	D	D
Dating your beverages, 61
Deities, possible brewing,
205-208
Devotion and commitment,
recipes for, 96-99
Distilled beverages, 24
in religious and magickal
settings, 17
Dreams and meditations,
recipes for, 100-103
Drinking vessels, 34-35
E	E	E	E	E
Egyptian legend, 22-23
Elemental and seasonal
recipes, 103-111
Enthcos, state of, 29
Environment, importance
of, 33
F	F	F	F	F
Fall/Water/West recipes,
107-109
Fertility and providence,
recipes for, 111-116
Flower and vegetable wine,
53-54
Food, beverages to enhance,
36-37
Foundations, recipes for,
116-122
Frappes, brewing, 44-45
French legend, 22
Friendship, recipes for,
137-143
G	G	G	G	G
German legend, 21
Glamoury, recipes for, 75-78
Goals, in drinking brews, 36
Grounding and foundations,
recipes for, 116-122
H	H	H	H	H
Haomas, in religious and
magickal settings, 18

219
I n d e x
Happiness, recipes for,
122-127
Health, recipes for, 127-133
Herbal beverages, 19
Hindu legend, 22
Hints, brewing, 39-55
History of beverages, 15-26
IIIII
Ingredients and associations,
193-200
Inspiration and creativity,
recipes for, 134-137
J	J	J	J	J
Juicing, 45-46
K	K	K	K	K
Kinship, unity and
friendship, recipes for,
137-143
L	L	L	L	L
Law of Similars, 24
Legends and lore, 20-23
Liquid divination, 29-31
Love and romance, recipes
for, 143-148
Luck, recipes for, 148-152
Lunar components, 180-181
M	M	M	M	M
Magick, recipes for, 152-156
Magickal
concocting, 33-34
roots, 16-20
Mead,
and medicinal purposes,
24
in religious and magickal
settings, 18
making, 46-47
non-alcoholic, 48-49
recipes, 49, 47
Medicinal beverages, 23-25
Meditations, recipes for,
100-103
Metric conversion chart,
209-210
Milk, in religious and
magickal settings, 18
Mood, importance of, 33
N	N	N	N	N
Norse legend, 20-21
Number correspondences,
202-203
P	P	P	P	P
Peace and rest, recipes for,
157-162
Persian legend, 22

220
A 	W i t c h ’ s 	B e v e r a g e s 	a n d 	B r e w s
Potent potions, 31-32
Potions, 31-32
Pouring out, 28
Prosperity, recipes for, 62-67
Protection, recipes for,
162-166
Providence, recipes for,
111-116
Psychism and awareness,
recipes for, 166-171
Purification, recipes for, 83-88
R	R	R	R	R
Recipes for
a conscious mind, 92-96
abundance and prosperity,
62-67
balance, 67-70
banishment, 70-75
beauty and glamoury, 75-78
change and
transformation, 79-82
cleansing and purification,
83-88
communication, 88-92
devotion and commitment,
96-99
dreams and meditations,
100-103
elements and seasons,
103-111
fertility and providence,
111-116
grounding and
foundations, 116-122
happiness, 122-127
health, 127-133
inspiration and creativity,
134-137
kinship, unity, and
friendship, 137-143
love and romance, 143-148
luck, 148-152
magick, 152-156
peace and rest, 157-162
protection, 162-166
psychism and awareness,
166-171
sensuality and sexuality,
171-177
Sun and Moon, 178-182
versatility, 182-185
victory and success, 185-188
wisdom, 189-192
Recipes, basic, 39-55
Rest, recipes for, 157-162
Romance, recipes for, 143-148
Roots, historical and
magickal, 16-20
S	S	S	S	S
Scrying, 30
Seasonal recipes, 103-111
Sensuality and sexuality,
recipes for, 171-177
Sexuality, recipes for, 171-177

221
I n d e x
Soda pop, brewing, 49-50
Solar components, 178
Soma, in religious and
magickal settings, 19
Spattering, 30-31
Spring/Air/East recipes,
104-106
Success, recipes for, 185-188
Summer/Fire/South recipes,
106-107
Sun and Moon recipes,
178-182
Symbolic ingredients, 31-33
T	T	T	T	T
Tea,
and medicinal purposes, 24
in religious and magickal
settings, 19
Timing correspondences, 204
Tincture, and medicinal
purposes, 25
Toasts, 15, 35-36
Tonics, 25
Tools, basic brewing, 40-42
Transformation, recipes for,
79-82
Tze Mai, in religious and
magickal settings, 19
U	U	U	U	U
Unity, recipes for, 137-143
V	V	V	V	V
Versatility, recipes for,
182-185
Vessels, drinking, 34-35
Victory and success, recipes
for, 185-188
W	W	W	W	W
Wine,
and medicinal purposes, 25
basic recipe, 52-53
flower and vegetable, 53-54
in religious and magickal
settings, 19-20
making, 51-53
non-alcoholic, 55
Winter/Earth/North
recipes, 109-111
Wisdom, recipes for, 189-192
