Amazing New Mind Power Secret
Almost all mind power books say that one has to visualize in order to get
results. But for me, and I dare say many of my friends/readers, visualizing is
extremely difficult: all I can summon up in my imagination is a vague picture,
lacking vivid colour and depth, lasting for no more than a second or two. This
left me very frustrated, and I was close to giving up mind power altogether
when I hit upon the idea which I will explain to you in a moment.
A friend of mine whose hobby was expensive hi-fi equipment had been saving
for a certain component costing just over $800. He had saved about $500
when, alas, he damaged his car. He was only insured for third party, fire and
theft, so he had to foot the bill for the damage which left him with only $25.
I thought that this would be a good opportunity for testing my idea. He
followed my instructions faithfully and within one month he had the component
in his bedroom. It happened that he won a competition in a magazine which
gave a first prize of $1000 worth of hi-fi of your choice from a large hi-fi
shop in London. This was the first time my friend, who frequently enters such
competitions, had won anything.
The results from this first test made me very excited so I decided to try a
second experiment with another friend of mine. He wanted a girlfriend, but he
wouldn't settle for any girl - he wanted a particular girl. For this reason it
cost him a few pounds to have a photograph of her, which he took secretly,
enlarged. This delayed the result of the experiment by a couple of weeks, but
had he not been so particular it would have happened more quickly because any
picture of a woman with similar features to what his ideal woman looked like
would have brought results. He got his girl in five weeks. He did not have to
try - she came to him.
Since these experiments with my friends I have enjoyed very satisfactory
results from using the same idea for myself. I have always wanted to play the
guitar and have tried many times, but with no success. In the past six months
I have progressed more than I ever thought possible; and can now even play
solos and lead breaks. I have also just ordered my first brand new car for

2
delivery when the new registration comes out. It is costing over $7000 for
which I don't need a loan: I can pay cash which I think is not bad as I have
only just turned 21 years of age. I seem to be receiving money from all sorts
of unexpected sources, and I believe it is all down to the mind power idea I am
about to reveal to you.
The idea came to me after reading about the use of subliminal advertising in
cinemas in the 1950s, I think it was. A frame of the film being shown would
every so often contain the name of a brand of drink; but the name would not
be perceived by the viewer's consciousness. It was however noted by the
subconscious mind with the result that people would automatically seek out
the brandname drink in question, having no idea that they had been influenced
to do this by the film they saw! Eventually this form of advertising was made
illegal. I experienced what must have been a similar, if less subtle, technique
when I saw a video of the film The Exorcist. Every so often a leering demonic
face would appear for a split second or so and to this day, try as I might, I
cannot forget it. I saw the film again the other day and it wasn't in it so I
think they must have stopped putting it in.
Now here is my mind power idea. I will use an example of money which is what
everybody wants. If you want $1000 write this amount on a large sheet of
paper. Write in big, clear print. Now stick this paper on the wall facing your
bed. The next thing you need is a flashlight, preferably one with a straight
forward on/off switch - not one of those where you have to press the button
once for 'on' and again for `off`, this type is too slow.
Next you need an alarm clock which you should set off at a time when you
know you will be in deep sleep and when it will be pitch black in darkness. Keep
your flashlight within arm's reach of your bed and when the alarm clock goes
off stop it and immediately grab the flashlight. Now looking towards where
you stuck your sheet of paper flash the flashlight at it three times, allowing
one or two seconds between each time. When this is done return to sleep and
do not think further about the money you want.

3
If you desire a new car get a large picture of the car you want and write over
it 'My car' and stick this on the wall. If you want a girl or boyfriend do as my
friend did, or the other way I mentioned if you do not desire a particular
person.
There is no end to the objectives to which my idea can be applied: just write
your desire on a sheet of paper or use a large picture of what you want and
stick it to the wail. The instructions are the same no matter what the nature
of your aim.
You should aim for just one thing at a time until your aim is accomplished.
Then you can begin something else. Follow my instructions until your aim is
accomplished. Then you can start something else. Follow my instructions every
night until you get a result. Results may take days, weeks, or even months in
some cases, so please be patient.
It has worked for me.
It has worked for others.
It can work for you.
For those who find it hard to visualize this novel mind power method must be a
fantastic idea. And nothing could be simpler. But for some of you there may be
one distinct hindrance to this application: the use of an alarm clock in the
middle of the night. This obviously presents a problem to anyone who sleeps in
the same room as another.
The point of using an alarm clock is to arouse one from deepest slumber: that
moment of awakening when the subconscious mind is particularly receptive to

4
any impression it receives. But the subconscious is just as acutely receptive
when one awakens in the dead of night to answer nature's call. So at that time
one can use the flashlight light on the wall, as suggested. For the individual
who sleeps the whole night without interruption, an alternative idea might be
to look at the wall as soon as one awakes,close eyes for a second or two,look
again; and then repeat twice.
After the third time close eyes for a few minutes and do not think of what
you looked at on the wall. Then - providing you haven't fallen asleep. again! -
get up and begin your day.
For those unfamiliar with the word, the 'subconscious' is that part of our
mind of which we are not aware. It is that hidden area of the mind which
controls our feelings and actions and indeed is far more powerful than our
'conscious' mind, that area of mind of which we are aware, and with which we
think and reason.
Whilst many writers appear to disagree on the most effective way of
exploiting the potential power of the mind, they all seem to agree on one
central point: that it is the subconscious mind and not the conscious mind
which holds the key to turning wishes into realities. How and why this is so is
really not known although many have put forward explanations. But it suffices
to say that if the subconscious can turn our dreams into realities then we
should make use of its power and enjoy the benefits - and leave the
explanations to the experts!
The subconscious, whilst being more powerful than its limited conscious
counterpart, is not able to help you without your specific instruction . It has
to be told that you want so-and-so. And the way to instruct it is through
simple words and images. The subconscious does not respond to, nor
understand, long words or complicated instructions. This is why I regard this
system both valuable and potent.

5
The uses to which this novel system can be applied are virtually limitless:
acquiring or improving skills ... receiving solutions to problems ... influencing
other people ...self-improvement ... improving your memory ... reading faster ...
the realization of almost any objective. The subconscious can do anything for
you! ( No Kidding ).
The author doesn't provide specific instructions for each of the so many
objectives which could be realized through his system; but it is obvious, based
on what he has written, tha t if one seeks more confidence one would put on
the wall something like 'I Am More Confident' or 'I Am Confident and Self-
Assured'; or place on the wall a picture of someone who represents your idea
of possessing great self-confidence. Your subconscious will then take it that
you want to be like this person.
This idea can be adapted, changed or altered to fit the needs of each
individual reader. But the principle remains the same: Awake in the night or
morning and glance at the script or picture on the wall. Nothing could be
simpler and I am certain that at least some readers will derive great benefits.
-end-
