A POPULAR HISTORY OF
WITCHCRAFT
ROUTLEDGE LIBRARY EDITIONS:
WITCHCRAFT

A POPULAR HISTORY OF
WITCHCRAFT
MONTAGUE SUMMERS
Volume 8

First published in 1937
This edition first published in 2011
by Routledge
2 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon, OX14 4RN
Simultaneously published in the USA and Canada
by Routledge
711 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10017
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
© 1937 Montague Summers
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or
utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now
known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any
information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing from the
publishers.
Trademark notice: Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered
trademarks, and are used only for identification and explanation without intent
to infringe.
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
ISBN 13: 978-0-415-61927-1 (Set)
eISBN 13: 978-0-203-81784-1 (Set)
ISBN 13: 978-0-415-60462-8 (Volume 8)
eISBN 13: 978-0-203-81901-2 (Volume 8)
Publisher’s Note
The publisher has gone to great lengths to ensure the quality of this reprint but
points out that some imperfections in the original copies may be apparent.
Disclaimer
The publisher has made every effort to trace copyright holders and would
welcome correspondence from those they have been unable to trace.

THE NECROMANCERS
Dr. Dee and Kelley raising the dead

A
POPULAR 	HISTORY
OF 	WITCHCRAFT
BY
MONTAGUE SUMMERS
LONDON
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO.,LTD.
BROADWAY HOUSE, 66-74 	CARTER LANE, E.C.
I937

7X.s oJmc 	of Sorcery is so great and compehensiue that it
includGs in itserf almost ewy other crime.
PAULLAYMANN,	Processus Juridicu contra
Sagas et Veneficos.

CONTENTS PAGE
INTRODUCTION. 	xi
CHAP.
I. 	OF THE 	PRACTICEAND 	PROFESSION	OF
WITCHCRAFT ; 	OF 	THE 	CONTRACT	;
AND OF THE FAMILIAR 	I
IV. 	OF THE BLACKMASS; AND OF THE LOVES
OF THE INCUBIAND SUCCUBI 	. 	160
vii


ILLUSTRATIONS FACING PAGE
I. 	THENECROMANCERS	. 	. 	Frontispiece
Dr. Dee and K d e y raising the dead. 	From
Histoile 	curieuse 	et 	ittmesque 	des 	smcie~s,
l	dewins, 	magic;ens, astro gues, voyants, revenants,
h e s en peine, vampires, spectres, esprits 	malins,
sorts jetks, 	exorcismes, 	etc., 	depuis I'Antiquitl
jusqu'& nos jours, par Le Rev. Pbre Mathias de
Giraldo, dmimcmn, 	amflClenexmciste de l'lnqui-
sition. Revue et augrnentde par Fornari. 	Paris,
I 846.
Dr. Fian and his Coven pacing round the Church
(withershins). 	All Hallows E'en, 1589. Dtaum
and Etched by F. Amtytage. 	Pub. London :
William Tegg. Collection of the author.
Mayrnon Rex. 	From a manuscript Book of
Black Magic written in England c. 1600, and
now in the possession of Messrs. Maggs, by
whose kind permission this drawing is repro-
duced.
IV. 	THEWORLDTOSTAT TENNIS . 	. 	118
Title-page of the First Quarto, 1620, of the
Masque by Middleton and Rawley.
The engraved title-page of a rare volume, a
study of witchcraft, Magica De Spectriset A@&-
ticmibus Spirituum, etc. 	This book, which con-
tains a number of histories of the supernatural,
compiled 	from more than one hundred and
fifty authors, was first issued by Hennig Grasse
of Leipzig at Eisleben in 1597, but the Second
Edition, Leyden, 1656, is far more uncommon
and more highly esteemed. 	Collection of the
author.

ILLUSTRATIONS
FACING PAGE
VI. 	THEWITCHES'SYNAGOGUE.Goya 	. 	176
VII. 	THEDEVILCHASTISING	THE 	WITCHES.
George Cruikshank. 	From 	Twelve Sketches
Illustrative of 	Sir 	Walter 	Scott's 	Letters on
Demonology and Witchcraft, pub. J. Robins and
Co., London, I 830. 	Cruikshank describes his
sketch as " Black John " Chastising the Witches.
The 	apposite quotation 	is 	from 	the 	Ninth
Letter : 	" The 	ceremonial 	of 	the 	Sabbath
meetings was very strict. 	The foul fiend was
very rigid in exacting the most ceremonious
attention from his votaries, and the title of Lord
when addressed by them. 	Sometimes, how-
ever, the weird sisters when whisperiog amongst
themselves, irreverently spoke of their sovereign
by 	the 	name of 	Black 	John ; 	upon 	such
occasions, the fiend rushed on them 	like a
schoolmaster who surprises his pupils in delict,
and beat and buffeted them without mercy."
Collection of the author.
VIII. 	A YORKSHIKE	WITCHAND HER IMPS 	. 	224,
This contemporary drawing, I 622, which is said
to have been done by the Rev. Miles Gale, vicar
of Keighley, is from the illustrated transcript
(BritishMuseurn,Add. MS. 32496) of the account
compiled by Edward Fairfax of Fewstone in the
Forest of Knaresborough in which he describes
the tormenting of his own children and other
victims by seven witches. 	The hag here por-
trayed is Elizabeth Fletcher, the daughter o i a
witch, Mother Foster. 	Elizabeth Fletcher is
spoken of as greatly feared by her neighbours
on account of her evil cantrips and spells.

INTRODUCTION
During the eleven years which have passed since
I published my History of 	Wikhcraft and Demonology a
second edition has repeatedly been asked for, and-
wisely 	or 	no--I 	have 	as 	often 	delayed 	this 	and
deferred. 	The fact is that throughout this time owing
to my further researches into an immense subject-
as old as the world and as wide as the world-and
perhaps 	more especially owing to the interest and
kindness of correspondents from every continent 	I
found that 	I had accumulated so vast a quantity of
new material that in order to include a tithe, and yet
keep my 	work 	within 	a 	reasonable compass, there
would have to be frequent excisions from the original
pages together with a certain amount of compression.
At first I began upon these lines, but I soon recognized
that again and again I was at a loss how to abbreviate
without in some way impairing the structure and
sequence of the chapters, and thus it was a matter
of no little difficulty to avail myself to any extent of
many 	recent 	and 	extraordinarily 	interesting
narratives 	and 	investigations whilst 	not 	essentially
altering and even recasting the whole.
A considerable amount of time also was taken up
in closely examining and discussing cases and incidents
which were brought under my notice. 	Not a few
persons were, quite naturally, at first reluctant to give
details. 	The majority shrank from furnishing their
names, dates, and 	the exact localities, such precise
xi

xii 	INTRODUCTION
information as might bring them into a notice they
were far from desiring or indeed would for a moment
allow. 	This, an entirely reasonable and prudent point
of view, must often hinder and obstruct the student
of these dark and riddling mysteries. 	Yet he has no
right 	whatsoever 	to 	complain 	or 	show 	himself
embarrassed by the discretion of a reticence which is
perfectly justifiable 	and 	fair. 	It 	was necessary to
poise delicate questions and to probe with great tact
in order to obtain knowledge together with the con-
firmation of knowledge which not unseldom was only
supplied on condition that it was not publicly utilized,
or, if so employed, disguised in such a way that the
informant could not be identified. 	Persons who have
been brought in contact with, and it may be who have
hardly escaped from the clutches of, the Satanists are
loath 	that 	their 	experiences, 	however 	valuable 	to
others, should be published. They are afraid too of the
vengeance and pursuit of the witches. 	This is quite
understandable, nor are they to be blamed who lack
courage to expose and confront those infernal gangs
whose weapons are poisons, black magic, and evil spells.
As time went on and I was even more frequently
being requested to issue a second edition of my book
it became increasingly difficult satisfactorily to myself
to find a happy issue from the impasse. 	In the view
of so much that was new and vitally important I did
not wish to send it from the press without certain added
matter. 	I was, too, perpetually being urged by those
whose opinion carries no little weight that I would bring
the subject right up to the very day of writing, that I
would emphasize the oneness of witchcraft throughout
the world, the unchangeableness of the church of Satan

...INTRODUCTION 	Xlll
throughout the centuries, and thus expose the horrid
activities and 	propaganda 	of 	the 	society of 	devil-
worshippers in our midst.
Such arguments were scarcely to be resisted, and
I 	decided 	that 	in 	order 	to 	accomplish what 	was
required more efficiently it would be better, rather
than to attempt any modification of my first work, to
write a new study ; and this I have called A Popular
History of 	Witchcraft.
My aim throughout my new work 	has been 	to
show how the profession and practice of witchcraft
are the same always and in all places, be it in some
remote English village, in a quiet cathedral city, in
the sweltering hinterland 	of Jamaica, 	or in savage
Africa. 	In the course of the present study I have con-
centrated 	upon 	England 	and 	English 	witchcraft,
although I have freely cited parallel circumstances as
revealed in foreign trials.
Since A Popular History of Witchcraft is designed for
the general reader rather than for the specialist I have
been advised not to burden the text with a multiplicity
of notes. 	A reader, unless it be the scholar at his desk,
pen in hand, is harassed by, or else ignores, a parade
of commentary, 	the 	details 	of 	which 	he 	has 	no
intention, even if he had the opportunity, of verifying
by 	making reference to 	the 	original 	source. 	In
quotations, for the same reason, I have given the newer
forms of words rather than strictly adhering to the
old spelling, which so many find cumbersome and a
nuisance, although I have been scrupulously careful
neither to alter nor modify. 	My citations of texts are
from the Authorized Version of the Bible, but these
have been checked in each instance by the Douai.

xiv 	INTRODUCTION
The last chapter, English witchcraft, is necessarily in
the nature of a survey, designed to show the con-
tinuity of the thing rather than to enter into details
of cases, many of which, however important, I have
been 	obliged to pass without 	mention. 	For 	these
particulars 	I must refer the reader to my 	Geography
of 	Witchraft.
The present work is designed to awaken the general
reader to a sense of the dangers with which he 	is
encompassed and beset. 	Although A 	Popular History
of 	Witchcraft 	is entirely new 	I have not hesitated to
make use of apposite passages from my previously
published works, and even to incorporate one or two
sentences, the gist of which I felt I was not able better
or more forcibly to express.
Since 	I 	published 	The 	History 	of 	Witchcraft 	and
Demonology there has been little or nothing, I believe,
which 	covers 	the 	same 	ground. 	Professor 	Lynn
Thorndike's work, for example, encyclopaedic in extent,
was 	scarcely designed 	to 	touch 	upon 	the 	field 	I
review. 	The 	Short 	Title-Catalogue 	of 	my 	friend
Mr. Harry Price will, of course, be in the hands of,
and 	constantly 	referred 	to 	by, 	every 	student 	of
occultism, for whom the Proceedings of the National
Laboratory of Psychical Research must be an ever
ready guide-book, his veritable Baedeker.
During 	the past 	decade in various journals 	and
magazines 	there 	have 	been 	published 	one 	or 	two
articles 	of 	great 	value. 	Such 	are 	Lieut.-Colonel
Spain's 	" The Witches of Riding Mill, 1673 ", which
appeared in The Cornhill Magazine, March, 	1929, and
Mr. S. Everard's " Oliver Cromwell and Black Magic ",
Occult Review, April, 1936. 	Mr. 	W. Branch Johnson

INTRODUCTION 	XV
has written a good book in 	The Age of 	Arsenic, 193I.
Two 	studies by 	the Rev. Joseph 	J. Williams, S.J.,
Voodoos and 	Obeuhs and Psychic Phenomena of 	Jamaica
are of the first importance, whilst 	W. B. 	Seabrook's
The 	Magic 	Island 	(1929) 	is 	very 	illuminating 	in
reference to Voodoo in Haiti.
With reference to witches in England there have
(so far as I am aware) only been three books worthy
of note published during the last ten years : Mr. George
Lyman Kittredge's 	Witchcraft 	in Old and JVew England
(1928)~Mr. C. L'Estrange 	Ewen's 	Witch Hunting and
Witch 	Trials 	( I 929), and 	Witchraft 	and Demonianism
(1933). 	If I may venture a criticism Mr. Kittredge's
book, exhaustive in references and annotation, suffers
from presenting a series of unconnected essays, uncon-
nected that is save in so far as they one and all relate
to various phases of the same subject. 	Thus some of
the chapters were, I am given to understand, originally
published in the Proceedings of 	the American Antiquarian
Society, 	1907, 	the 	American 	Historical 	Reuiew, 	I g I 7,
and in other ephemerides. 	Mr. L'EstrangeYsworks,
of the most painstaking scholarship, are indispensable
to any student of witchcraft, to whom they supply
the amplest and most essential material.
There 	have 	been 	translations 	of 	the 	Malleus
Malefzcamm, of Boguet, 	Remy, 	Guazzo, 	Taillepied,
and others. Again, such a reprint as T h Trial of 	the
Lamaster 	Witches, 	1612, 	with 	an 	introduction 	by
Dr. G. B. Harrison 	(1929)~is a notable piece of no
slight value.
I am grateful to many friends and correspondents
for their 	warmly appreciative letters and so wide-
spread an interest that is taken in my work. 	Since

xvi 	INTRODUCTION
she is no longer with us it will not 	(I am sure) be
invidious to particularize Mrs. Violet Tweedale, whose
psychic gifts were so truly remarkable, 	and 	whose
writings on the occult are so justlv admired.
I have to thank Messrs. Maggs 'for their generous
courtesy in granting me permission 	to quote from
their 	Catalogue 	of 	Books 	on 	Medicine, 	Alchemy,
Astrology, etc. (No. 520 ; 	1929)~details concerning
the 	interesting 	and 	important 	MS. 	Book 	of Black
Magic and 	Conjurations therein 	described. 	I 	am
further indebted to their kindness for the reproduction
thence of the drawing of the Demon King Maymon.
In conclusion I would say that the present study
aims at presenting a clear view of the Practice and
Profession of Witchcraft, as it was carried on in former
centuries and now prevails amongst us. 	I 	am con-
vinced that it is most necessary to realize that this is
no mere historical question, but a definite factor in
politics of to-day, as well as in social life and the
progress of humanity.
The Black International of Satan-that 	is the canker
which is corrupting and destroying the world.
IN FESTO TRANS. A L W DOMUS LAURETANB.
'936.

CHAPTER 	I
In 0th to the proof 	that there have been, and are, unlawful
Confederacies with mil Spirits, by uertue of which the hellish accom-
plices perform things above their natural powers : I must premise that
this beang matter of fact, i s onely capable of the evidence of authority
and sense ; and by both these the being of Witches and diabolical
Contracts is most abundantly confirm'd.
JOSEPH GLANVIL,Saducimus 	Triumphatus.
" A soreerer is one who by commerce with the Devil
has a full intention of attaining his own ends, and I
give this definition because not only is it necessary for
the full understanding of my book, but also because it
explains and supplies the reason for the divers laws
which in all Christian countries have been directed
against sorcerers, and furthermore because no concise
definition has hitherto been supplied by the many
authorities who have written upon witchcraft, whilst
at the same time it is essential that we should be quite
clear and exact in regard to the use of our terms."
With this sentence the erudite lawyer and politician,
Jean 	Bodin, one of the most acute and liberal minds
of his age, opens his famous treatise Demonomania, A
Scourgefor Wizardr and Witches, which was first published
at Paris in I 580, and in the opinion of not a few scholars
is still distinguished as being the most copious and
most closely-argued manual of its kind.
It would be, I imagine, hardly possible to discover
a more explicit, precise, comprehensive, and intelligent

2 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
definition of a Witch. 	Bodin was thinking only of
European witchcraft, but actually his words carry a
complete and universal connotation, and we find, for
example, that Father Joseph J. Williams, S.J., who is
Professor of Cultural Anthropology at Boston College
Graduate School, in his Psychic Phenomena of 	Jamaica,
writes : " Certainly we have this definition [of Bodin's]
fully verified in the case of the Jamaica obeah-man as
the direct descendant in theory and practice from the
Ashanti obayifo," 	a term which Captain R. Sutherland
Rattray in his Ashanti Proverbs (Oxford, I g I 6), explains
as follows : 	" Obayifo, deriv. bayi, sorcery (Synony-
mous term ayen), a wizard, or more generally a witch.
A kind of human vampire, whose chief delight is to
suck the blood of children whereby the latter pine and
die. 	Men and women possessed of this black magic
are credited with volitant powers, being able to quit
their bodies and travel great distances in the night.
Besides sucking the blood of victims, they are supposed
to be able to extract the sap and juice of crops. (Cases
of coco blight are ascribed to the work of the obayifo.)
These witches are supposed to be very common, and a
man never knows but that his friend or even his wife
may be one."
Such characteristics can be closely paralleled in the
history of European Witchcraft, 	Some are frequent,
others are more rarely met, but all occur, and this in
itself goes far to show how in spite of external differences
and even climatic and regional variations, the horrid
cult is essentially one and the same the wide world
over, the witch near home or in the remotest and most
savage quarters of the globe serves only one master, is
the bondslave of one only lord, 	the f d e n angel who

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	3
is the Prince of Darkness, " that old serpent, which is
the Devil, and Satan."
It must be borne in mind that the word " witch ",
although in recent usage almost invariably applied to
a woman, may with perfect correctness be employed
of a man, and it seems a pity that the meaning should
be narrowed and curtailed. 	The great Oxford English
Dictionary 	defines " witch " 	(a word of Anglo-Saxon
derivation) as " A man who practises witchcraft or
magic, a magician, sorcerer, wizard ". Also, and to-day
more generally, " A female magician, sorceress ; 	in
later use a woman supposed to have dealings with the
devil or evil spirits and to be able by their co-operation
to perform supernatural acts." 	The word " sorcerer "
is from the Old French, and is derived from a popular
Latin term 	sigtllfying a caster of lots, a diviner, a
charmer.
" The father of the English law," Sir Edward Coke
(commonly called Lord Coke), defines a witch as " a
person 	that hath conference with the Devil to take
counsel or do some act ".
Whilst he was Bishop of Lu~on,and before he had
received the red hat, 	Cardinal Richelieu, in 	1618,
with considerable pains and application, 	composed
for his diocese a catechism which became famous
under the name A 	Wholesom Instruction in the Christian
Faith. 	The Cardinal thus distinguishes between Magic
and Sorcery. 	" Magic is the art of producing extra-
ordinary and supernatural effects by the power of the
devil : Sorcery or Witchcraft is the art of injuring men
in their persons or their possessions by the power of the
devil. 	The difference between Magic and Sorcery
strictly lies in this, that the former has for its chief aim

4 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
and end the design to excite wonder and vain esteem ;
whilst the latter in its malevolence seeks to injure and
harm."
Magic, says Swedenborg, is an abuse of the corre-
spondences of the natural world with the spiritual.	-
Black 	magic, 	which 	is 	magic 	proper, 	produces
effects which are beyond the reach of any forces of
nature, and which could not be contrived by any skill
of legerdemain. These effects, moreover, are produced
by the power of the demon, with whom the witch has
commerce and has entered into a contract.
In order clearly to understand and fully to realize
the shuddering horror and heart-sick dismay any sort
of communion between human beings and evil spirits,
which is the very core and kernel of Witchcraft, excited
throughout the whole of Christendom, to appreciate
why tome after tome was written upon the subject by
the most learned pens of Europe, why holiest pontiffs
and 	wisest judges, 	grave 	philosopher 	and 	discreet
scholar, king and peasant, careless noble and earnest
divine, all alike were of one mind in the prosecution
of sorcery ; why in Catholic Spain and in Puritan
Scotland, in cold Geneva and at genial Rome, un-
hesitatingly and perseveringly man sought to 	stamp
out the plague with the most terrible of all penalties,
the cautery of fire ; in order that by the misreading of
history we should not superficially and foolishly think
monk and magistrate, layman and lawyer were mere
tigers, mad fanatics-for 	as such have they, too, often
been presented and traduced,-it 	will be not wholly
impertinent briefly to recapitulate the orthodox doc-
trine of the Powers of Darkness, facts nowadays too
often forgotten or ignored, but which 	to the acute

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	5
mediieval mind were ever fearfully and prominently
in view.
And here, as in so many other beliefs, we shall find
a little dogma ; 	certain things that can hardly 	be
denied without the note of temerity ; and much con-
cerning which nothing definite can be known, upon
which assuredly no pronouncement will be made.
In the first place, the name Devil is commonly given
to the fallen angels, who are also called Demons. 	The
precise technical distinction between the 	two terms
may be seen in the phrase used in a decree of the Fourth
Lateran 	Council, which was convened under 	Pope
Innocent I11 in I 2 15. The assembled Fathers spoke of
" The Devil and other demons ", i.e. all are demons,
and the chief of the demons is called the Devil.
As Cotton 	Mather 	explains in his 	The Devil Dis-
covered : c < It is not One Devil alone, that has Cunning
or Power enough to apply the Multitudes of Tempta-
tions, whereby Mankind is daily diverted from the
Service of God ; No, the High Places of Our Air, are
Swarming full of those Wicked qirits, whose Tempta-
tions 	trouble 	us. . . . But 	because 	those 	Apostate
Angels, are all United, under one Infernal Monarch,
in the Designs of Mischief, 'tis in the Singular Number,
that they are spoken of."
Mention is made of the Devil in many passages both
of the Old and New Testaments. Thus, as he is multi-
fold in evil, so is he known under a variety of names.
Beelzebub is prince of the devils (St. Matthew, xii, 24) ;
he is Satan (St. Luke, x, I 8) ; he is Belial (2 Corinthians,
vi, 15) ; he is the angel of the bottomless pit, " whose
name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the
Greek tongue Apollyon " (Revelation, ix, I I). 	He is

6 	THE PROFESSION 	OF WITCHCRAFT
proud 	( I 	Timothy, iii, 6) ; powerful (Ephesians, vi,
12) ; wicked ( I John, ii, 13) ; subtle (2 Corinthians,
xi, 3) ; deceitful (2 Corinthians, xi, 	14) ; fierce and
cruel ( I Peter, v, 8). 	He is the father of lies and a
murderer from the beginning (St. John, viii, 4.4.) ; one
who 	loves 	to work lying wonders, 	that is 	to 	say
the craft of magic (2 Thessalonians, ii, 9). 	He is the
prince of the power of the air (Ephesians, ii, 2) and a
sinner from the beginning ( I John, iii, 8) ; finally he
was cast out into the blackness of darkness (St. Jude,
6 ; 13)-
It 	is 	interesting to note that 	even so extremely
advanced a writer of the modernist school as Dean
Inge, when preaching at St. Mark's, North Audley
Street, London, 	W., 	on Sunday, 6th March, 	1932,
remarked : 	" Liberal 	theologians 	may 	jeer 	and
philosophers scoff, but there it is. 	We cannot get
rid of the Devil. 	' Deliver us from the Evil One,' is
the right translation. 	I have not the slightest doubt
that Christians are enjoined to believe in a positive,
malignant spiritual power.''
An obvious question which next arises and which
has been amply discussed by the fathers and school-
men is : What was the nature of the sin of the rebel
angels? 	This 	point 	presents 	some 	difficulty 	for
theology has logically formed the highest estimate of
the perfection of the angelic nature, the powers and
possibilities of the angelic knowledge. 	Sins of the flesh
are certainly impossible to angels, and from many
sins which are purely spiritual and intellectual they
would seem to be equally debarred. The great offence
of Lucifer appears to have been the desire of inde-
pendence of God and equality with God.

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	7
It is theologically certain that Lucifer held a very
high place in the celestial hierarchy, and it is evident
that he maintains some kind of sovereignty over those
who followed him in his rebellion. There can be little
doubt too that among their ranks are many mean and
petty spirits-to 	speak comparatively-but 	even these
can influence and betray foolish and arrogant men.
There are many historical examples, indeed, of
men so besotted as to cause themselves to be saluted
and 	even 	worshipped 	as 	God-Herod, 	Caligula,
Heliogabalus, the Persian king Khusrau.
To come down to more modern days. 	About 1830
there appeared in one of the American States bordering
upon Kentucky, an impostor who declared himseIf to
be Christ. 	He threatened the world with immediate
judgement, and a number of ill-balanced and hysterical
subjects were much 	affected 	by his denunciations.
One day, when he was addressing a large gathering in
his 	usual 	strain, 	a 	German 	standing 	up 	humbly
asked him if he would repeat his warnings in German
for the benefit of those present who only knew that
tongue. The speaker answered that he had never been
able to learn that language, a reply which seemed so
ludicrous in one claiming divinity that many of the
auditors were convulsed with laughter, and so profane
a charlatan soon lost all credit.
John Nichols Tom, the son of a 	Cornish publican
and self-dubbed Knight of Malta, early in 	1838 was
shot near Blean Wood, Kent, during a riot which he
had incited owing to his having persuaded a number of
rustics that he was Christ returned to earth. 	He
exhibited the five wounds in his hands, feet, and side,
and gained no inconsiderable following. 	Upon the

8 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
tree 	beneath 	which 	he 	fell 	some 	fanatic 	actually
attached an engraved plate : " Our real true Messiah,
King 	of the Jews." 	Henry James 	Prince, 	" the
Beloved " founder of the Agapernone, openly claimed
divinity, whilst his successor T. H. Smyth-Pigott in I go2
declared to the congregation of his church at Clapton :
" I am that Lord Jesus come again in my own body
to save those who come to me from death and hell."
Smyth-Pigott died in 1927.
I t 	is 	apparent 	then, 	that 	although rationally 	it
should be inconceivable that 	any sentient creature
could claim divinity, actually the contrary is the case.
The sin of Satan would appear to have been an attempt
to usurp the sovereignty of God. This is further borne
out by the fact that during the Temptation of Our
Lord the Devil, showing Him 	" all the kingdoms of
the world and the glory of them ", said : " All these
will I give Thee, if Thou wilt fall ddwn and worship me."
Here 	the Devil is demanding that 	divine honours
should be paid him. 	And this claim is perpetuated
throughout the witch trials. 	The witches believed that
their master, Satan, Lucifer, the fiend, the principle
of evil, was God, and as such they worshipped him
with the supreme honour due to Almighty God alone,
they 	adored 	him, 	they 	offered 	him 	homage, 	they
addressed prayer to him, they sacrificed.
The Devil, Satan, was and is the god of the witches,
and we may now inquire concerning their practice and
profession, how 	a 	novice joins 	that horrid 	society,
and what obligations so damnable a state entails.
The 	first 	business 	required 	of 	a 	candidate who
desired to become a witch was to make a formal
compact with Satan. 	This might be either expressed

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	9
or tacit. 	The expressed pact consisted of a solemn vow
of fidelity and homage paid before witnesses, to the
devil visibly present in some bodily form, or else to
some wizard or magician acting in the devil's stead.
The tacit pact involves the offering of a written petition
to the devil, and this is not unseldom done by proxy
through the medium of a witch when the contracting
party is afraid to summon or directly have speech with
the fiend.
That a determined man will be able in some way or
another to get most intimately into touch with the
dark shadow world is not to be denied. 	The existence
of evil discarnate intelligences it is impossible for any
thinking man to doubt, whilst it is certainly established
that this realm of rebellion and disorder owns one
chief, and it is reasonable to suppose, many hierarchies,
a 	kingdom that 	is 	at continual 	warfare with 	and
opposed to all that is good, ever striving to do ill and
to bring man 	into bondage. 	It 	is this connexion
between man and the demon with its consequences,
conditions, and attendant circumstances that is known
as Witchcraft. Thus, even so ultra-cautious and indeed
frankly sceptical a writer as Father Herbert Thurston,
S.J., 	finds himself bound to acknowledge : 	" In the
face of Holy Scripture and the teaching of the Fathers
and theologians the abstract possibility of a pact with
the Devil and of a diabolical interference in human
affairs can hardly be denied." 	Plainly, a man who not
only firmly believes in a Power of evil but also that this
Power can and does meddle with and mar human
affections and human destinies, may invoke and devote
himself to this Power, may give up his will thereunto,
may ask this Power to accomplish his wishes and ends,

I 0 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
and so succeed in definitively and explicitly entering
into a mysterious contract with evil whose slave and
servant he is become.
St. Jerome explains that a contract with Satan is
spoken of in plainest terms by the prophet Isaiah :
" We have made a covenant with death, and with hell
are we at agreement " (xxviii, 15). 	St. Augustine too
discusses such compacts at length. 	There were few
better known histories throughout the Middle Ages
than the sixth century legend of Theophilus of Adana,
who when bitterly disappointed 	and 	wellnigh 	dis-
graced, concluded a pact with the devil, to whom he
delivered a document he had written and sealed with
his own hand. 	Presently, repenting most heartily of
the evil he had done, he besought with fervent prayer
and fasting the 	Mother of all Mercies. Our Lady
wrested the fatal parchment from the demon and
returned it to the penitent, who cast it into the flames,
shortly after passing away in peace.
Stevenote de Audebert, 	a witch of the Pyrenees,
who was executed in I 619, actually showed the judge,
Pierre De Lancre, " the contract and agreement she
had made with the demon. 	It was scrawled in blood
and feculent matter, enough to turn a man's stomach
to see."
Elizabeth 	Style, 	a 	witch 	of 	Stoke 	Trister 	in
Somerset, in 1664 confessed before a magistrate, that
the devil who visited her " in the shape of a handsome
Man " promised that she should " have the pleasure
of the World for Twelve years if she would with her
Blood sign his Paper, which was to give her Soul to
him . . . and 	with 	a 	drop 	or 	two 	of 	her 	Blood
she signed the Paper " with her mark. 	In 	I 672 a

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	I I
Nottingham boy inscribed a formal agreement with
the powers of evil.
The most famous and most infamous of these written
pacts with Satan is probably that made by the arch-
magician, 	Urbain 	Grandier, a holograph which is
preserved in the Bibliothtque Nationale at Paris.
These formal contracts with 	the 	fiend 	are still
made to-day, and indeed LG Petit Dragon Rouge, one
of the vilest and happily one of the scarcest of the
grimoires, sets out in explicit terms (although, I am
bound to add, not without a note of caution), the
precise formula to be most efficaciously employed.
Maitre Maurice Garson, one of the leading French
barristers, in the course of an address delivered before
the Institut Mttaphysique at Paris, September, 1929,
affirmed 	" The first step for novices in sorcery and
witchcraft is to make a contract with the 	devil ".
Among ancient French legal documents and records
of the courts there are many examples of these pacts,
and those which are being written and signed in blood
to-day 	appear 	practically 	identical with 	the 	older
screeds. 	The substance of all is that the neophyte
pledges his soul to the Evil One in return for power,
or wealth, or some other object he desires. 	c c I have
not only held some of these contracts in my hand,"
said Maitre Garson, " but I actually witnessed one of
these strange businesses quite recently." 	He proceeded
to relate how it had come to his knowledge that 	a
candidate was going to invoke the devil in a wood
near 	Fontainebleau. 	Maitre 	Garson 	and 	another
witness concealed themselves whence they had a clear
sight of the appointed spot. 	The sorcerer arrived at
midnight, and proceeded with the dark ritual, tracing

12 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
a circle on the ground, lighting two candles, and with
hideous blasphemies calling upon Satan, from whom
he demanded the fulfilment of his quest. At the climax
the man raising himself on tiptoes threw out his hands
at full stretch proffering the infernal charter scrawled
in his own blood, and promising to win the devil a
human soul for every wish that he was granted. 	That
the fiend did not appear was doubtless owing to the
fact that these ceremonies were being spied upon and
overseen by those not of the wizard fraternity. But, as
one of the greatest of theologians and profoundest of
philosophers, Francisco Suarez, observes, even if no
response be obtained from the demon, " either because
God does not allow it, or for some other reason we may
not know," 	the guilt of the experimenter in this dark
art and his sin are in no wise lightened. Maitre Garson
further related that he knew of numerous cases of
persons both of poor estate and in the highest social
positions who had signed these protocols with Satan,
and he instanced (without naming the individual) a
leading 	French 	banker 	who 	openly 	attributed 	his
worldly success and his immense riches to a diabolical
compact.
I t is true that the great moral theologians and doctors
teach us that such abominations as a contract with the
demon are in their essence null and void, a question
discussed 	at 	length 	and 	thus 	decided 	with 	much
learning by Jacques D'Autun. 	Arguing on different
lines and from another point of view, the same con-
clusion was arrived at by so profound a student of
occultism as the Marquis 	Marie-Victor-Stanislas de
Guaita.
None the less it is certain that anyone who is cankered

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	'3
and infect with evil to such a degree as actually to
submit himself a bondslave of Satan, and who signs
these charters of hell stands in the utmost peril. 	For,
as Jules 	Bois 	says, the interior pact 	of which the
written paper is in some sense an outward sign and
symbol is not so easily broken. 	The infernal yoke,
the serfdom of Satan, is not lightly cast off; 	the
intellectual sin it is hard to atone.
In the fifteenth century when a novice joined the
Waldensians, 	who 	are 	the 	Vaudois 	sorcerers, 	the
demon insisted that he should swear implicit obedience
to evil and sign a formal document yielding up his
soul, without which no business could be done.
The formal contract in fine opens the door to every
kind of witchcraft and black magic.
The second point in the profession of a witch follows
upon and may be regarded as essentially a part of the
impious compact which has been made. 	At the devil's
instigation 	the 	neophyte 	with 	horrid 	imprecations
and blasphemy abjures the Catholic Faith, explicitly
and 	in 	set terms 	withdraws from and 	denies 	the
obedience due to God, and is therefore, as the older
authorities so justly observe, a rebel, guilty of high
treason towards the Almighty King.
Mention 	of 	these 	infernal 	dedications 	and 	the
ruthless renunciation of all good occurs in almost every
witch-trial. 	Martin Delrio briefly sums up the matter
by pointing out that certain articles are common to all
these declarations. 	" The Christian Faith is rejected
and denied with contumely ; the worship of and the
honour due to God are transferred to Satan ; 	the
Patronage of Our Lady is repudiated ; the Sacraments
are scorned and derided ; 	every divine ordinance is

'4 	THE PROFESSION 	OF WITCHCRAFT
profaned." 	The actual words may be 	a shortened
formula, or they may be delivered at some length and
garnished with revolting profanities, but the substance
of the matter is in every instance the same.
The Waldensian disciple upon his full profession
denied God and Christ, Our Lady and the Saints, in
plain set terms. 	He blasphemed the Sacraments and
vowed never to enter a Church, or if indeed he were
obliged for safety sake to be present at Mass he muttered
a foul curse at the Elevation of the Host, and if bound
to take Holy Water he whispered to the demon :
" Sire, ne te desplaise," 	" My Lord, thy pardon."
The witches are required to be active in their pro-
fession, for the devil is a hard taskmaster, although
indeed it is true that but seldom do they need any spur
to wickedness. 	It is, however, much to be suspected
that any person who renders himself notorious by his
contempt for and a certain abhorrence of all sacred
things has dabbled (and it may be deeply) in black
magic. 	Not very many months ago I was informed
by a friend that one afternoon as he found himself
by chance near a small church in a London suburb
he went in to pay a visit to the Blessed Sacrament.
The church was empty, save for one man who was
standing at the sanctuary rails, facing the tabernacle.
To my friend's surprise he noticed that the stranger
was shaking his fist with wild threatening gestures
towards the altar, and muttering to himself in tones
of horrid menace. When he heard a footstep he turned
and hurried from the place. 	His mouth was writhed
in a bestial grimace of derision, his teeth snarled, his
eyes were blazing with maniac fury and hate, and it
seems plain that this wretch was a Satanist who had

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	' 5
entered the church to curse and insult the Sanctissimum,
and who perhaps had he not been interrupted would
have proceeded to worse indignity and violence.
From time to time the daily papers tell us of some
apparently senseless piece of mischief or damage that
has been done in a church. In May, 1936, for example,
an extraordinary sacrilege was committed at St. Cuth-
bert's Church, Stanley. 	The parish priest found that
during the night the church had been entered, and the
intruder 	seemed 	" to 	have 	concentrated upon 	the
tabernacle of the high altar ". 	A Ciborium was lying
upon the altar table, and around it the consecrated
Hosts were scattered pell-mell. The pix containing the
lunette which had held the larger Benediction Host
was found on the roof of the school. 	There can be
no doubt that this desecration and 	many 	another
similar outrage are the work of Satanists, whose vile
society is only too rife and too industrious amongst us
here in England to-day.
The ordinary man-the 	man in the street, as the
phrase goes-was 	wont 	to regard 	Satanism 	as 	in-
credible, or at any rate a myth of the far-off Dark
Ages, but to-day he has been forcibly brought face to
face with a tale of horrors that will admit of no other
explanation save the potency, the intensely active and
purposeful potency of the powers of evil. 	Who can
doubt that the revolution of Russia, the persecution
in Mexico, the anarchy and atrocities of Spain, have
been fomented, energized, and directed by Satanic
agency ? 	The wholesale carnage of priests and nuns;
the torture of innocents ; so deliberate a destruction of
most holy and most ancient shrines ; the burning to
the ground of churches, convents, and every home of

16 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
prayer ; all unmistakably betray their ultimate source
and author, hell and the devil. 	I t is reported that
among the red raving mobs, the dregs of the populace
unleashed to slaughter and the most inhuman savagery,
there mingle demons under the form of men who
urge on and encourage the bloodshed and the fires,
nor have I for one any difficulty in believing that this
is indeed the case.
As Archbishop Hinsley said in August, 1936 : " The
Spanish terror would seem to aim at the wreck of
Christianity 	and 	the 	ruin 	of 	civilization." 	The
Uniuerse, 	7th August, 	I 936, 	spoke of 	" Demoniacal
Fury 	in 	Spain", 	and 	described 	by 	an eye-witness
fiendish attacks upon the Blessed Sacrament and on
priests and nuns. 	" When the Reds set about the task of
destroying practically every church in Barcelona, they
went first to the altars. 	Pulling the vessels out of the
Tabernacles, they scattered the sacred Hosts on the
floor and in the street, and completed the sacrilege by
trampling on the Hosts." 	The Barcelona Reds were
" like maniacs possessed by the devil ",which pregnant
phrase in its literal truth sums up the position. 	" To
batter off the head of a dying priest, to outrage a girl
little more than a 	child and then riddle her with
machine-gun bullets-these 	are the pastimes of the
beast that roams under the name of Communism "-
or Satanism, call it what you will (Daily Mail, Monday,
I 0th August, I 936). 	Sir Edward Russell wrote : " For
the true Communist there is no God . . . Russia sets
up a completely atheist state " (Hibbert Journal, 	July,
1936) This may well seem to be the case, but the gist
of the matter lies deeper. The Communist denies God,
it is true, he is superficially atheist, but he certainly

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	'7
has a god, for he has set up Satan as his god, who is
worshipped not with prayer and in churches or holy
places, but by violence, by cruelty, and every atrocity,
by anarchy and blood.
We need not in view of the events which have
happened in our own day be at all surprised when we
learn from Bodin 	that 	Trois-eschelles du Mayne, a
notorious sorcerer, told King Charles I X that there
were at that time more than three thousand Satanists
in France. 	It was said that in the fifteenth century so
vast was the army of witches that had a leader arisen
and an international organization the whole of Europe
would have been thrown into chaos, nihilism, and war.
To-day leaders have arisen, an international organiza-
tion has been formed, and Europe is honeycombed by
the vast society of devil-worshippers whose members
may be found everywhere, in crowded capital and
remotest hamlet, ever busy at their evil work, ever
recruiting, ever flaunting their doctrines now glossed
under some specious name, now hardly disguised in
their native licence and horror, and if unchecked the
result must be universal confusion, discord, red revolu-
tion, and the ruin of humanity.
" To worship the Devil is Witchcraft," says Cotton
Mather. 	Satanism and Witchcraft are one and the
same thing.
From the pact struck by the witch or Satanist with
the fiend and the formally expressed renunciation it
logically follows, that the novices must cast away such
holy things as the Rosary, or the girdle of St. Francis,
the girdle of St. Thomas Aquinas, the leathern cincture
of St. Augustine, the Scapular of the Carmelites, or
any other Scapular. They will also trample under foot
C

18 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
the Cross, the Medals, or other objects of devotion
they possess or once carried on their persons.
The Medal of St. Benedict, who was endued with
an especial influence over the dark power, is par-
ticularly dreaded by witches, and is extremely potent
against all evil spells. 	During a trial for sorcery in
1647 at Nattenburg, near the Abbey of 	Metten in
Bavaria, 	the 	necromancers acknowledged that 	the
attempts against the monks were foiled by the holy
Medal. 	The two possessed boys of Illfurt (Alsace),
1864-9, exhibited the utmost dread of St. Benedict's
Medal. 	A wizard, then, would plainly get rid of so
sacred an emblem, and cast it from him with hate and
fear. 	The 	Carmelite Scapular, bestowed 	by 	Our
Lady on St. Simon as a sure pledge of final grace and
salvation, is equally abhorrent and detested by the
servants of the devil.
Suspicion was first aroused in the case of Ernest von
Ehrenberg, a cousin of the Prince-Bishop of Wiirzburg,
when he was observed to show a strange contempt for
holy things, and was one day seen to burn his scapulars
and medals.
It was found that the Waldensians did not know the
Lord's Prayer, the Ave Mary, or the Creed, but they
would secretly make the Sign of the Cross in the dust
and spit upon it.
Boguet notes that the demon forbade the witches of
the old town of St. Oyan de Joux (now Saint-Claude)
to say the creed.
On the I 6th April, 1594, died Ferdinand0 Stanley,
the young Earl of Derby, and although he suffered
from a bladder complaint it was commonly believed
that his sickness had been much aggravated and his

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	'9
end hastened by witchcraft. 	Rumour, and something
more than mere rumour, accused a number of crones
of 	the 	worst 	possible 	reputation, 	and 	these 	were
promptly haled before a magistrate : 	" One of them
being bidden to say the Lord's Prayer, said it well, but
being conjured, in the Name of Jesus, that if she had
bewitched his honour, she should not be able to say
the same, she could never repeat that petition, Forgive
us our trespasses, no not although it was repeated unto
her."
Florence Newton, the Irish witch of Youghal, who
was arraigned at the Cork Assizes in September, 1661,
when put to the test could not say, " and forgive us
our trespasses " in the Lord's Prayer, but boggled at
the words, and " being oft pressed to utter the words
as they were repeated to her, she did not," 	which
left a very ill impression. 	Julian 	Cox, the Somerset
witch, when asked by Serjeant John Archer to recite
the Lord's Prayer, went over it very readily until she
said " And lead us into temptation," 	which she repeated
again and again, and could not otherwise.
Since the devil is the " ape of God ", whilst Holy
Baptism is the " first Sacrament " and in the phrase
of 	Eugenius IV 	" the 	door of the 	spiritual life ",
Satan bathes in a new mock Laptism, the witch, who
is thus fully incorporated (as it were) into the infernal
conventicle. 	Both Bodin and Boguet comment upon
this scurril baptism, the latter giving it as his opinion
that 	the fiend thereby seeks to persuade the witch
that the first baptism is thus annulled, and that it can
be of no more service to him. 	This accords with what
Nicolas 	Remy 	states in his Demonolat?y, for he was
astonished to find that many of the Lorraine sorcerers

20 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
who had fallen into the hands of justice asked to be
purged by a second baptism, and it became necessary
to explain to them the folly and the futility of such a
request, since Holy Baptism impresses an ineffaceable
character 	on 	the 	soul, 	a 	spiritual 	and 	indelible
mark.
Jeannette 	dYAbadie,a witch of the Pyrenees, con-
fessed that she had often witnessed at the sabbat the
impious baptism of children, and among the Swedish
witches of Mora on Lake Siljan in the years 1669-1670
the rite was regularly practised. 	They confessed that
the devil " caused them to be Baptized too by such
Priests as he had there, and made them confirm their
Baptism 	with 	dreadful 	Oaths 	and 	Imprecations ".
The Salem trials of the New England witches supply
very ample accounts of baptism, but concerning these
it will be sufficient to quote from Cotton 	Mather's
The Wonders of 	the Inuisible World, a passage from the
trial of Elizabeth How on 30th June, 	1692 : 	L' there
came in the Confessions of several other (penitent)
Witches, which affirmed this How to be one of those,
who with them had been baptized by the Devil in
the River at ~VewburyFalls : 	before which he made
them 	kneel down 	by 	the Brink 	of the River 	and
worship 	him."
In some instances at this baptism the witches for-
swore their old names and were given new, as for
example a sorcerer of Cuneo, della Rovere, who was
renamed Barbicapra. 	The author of A History of 	the
Witches of 	Benfrewshire 	lays particular stress on this,
and writes : 	" Renouncing of baptism is by Delrio
made an effect of paction, yet with us it' is per se relevant,
as 	was 	found 	in 	the 	former 	process 	of 	Margaret

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	21
Hutchinson [1661] . . . and our witches always con-
fess the 	giving them 	new 	names, 	which 	are 	very
ridiculous, as Red-shanks, Sergeant, &c."
Another detail in the profession is that the witches
give the devil either a lock of their hair or some piece
of their clothing in token of their vassalage, 	for aa
Guazzo explains the fiend is eager to make them his
own in 	every particular, and this gift establishes a
psychic sympathy or copula. 	Moreover these objects
are often utilized in confecting a charm.
The Waldensian upon his reception into this horrible
company of devil-worshippers was required to offer
the demon a lock of his hair, nail-parings, and a few
drops of his blood.
In January, 	1929, intense excitement was caused
in the United States by the trial at York, Pennsylvania,
of John 	H. 	Blymyer, 	a 	voodoo-man 	and professed
witch-doctor, for the 	murder 	of Nelson 	Rehmeyer,
who was locally notorious as a practitioner of black
magic. 	Blymyer and two companions, Wilbert Hess
and John 	Curry, visited Rehmeyer, who lived at a
lonely farm, in order to secure a lock of his hair which
was required for removing a " hex" 	or spell he had
cast on the Hess family. 	The hair had to be buried
eight feet underground, 	and 	the 	charm would 	be
dissolved. 	Rehmeyer refused, and in the course of
the fight which followed he was struck on the head
with a billet of wood and killed. 	Milton Hess and his
wife Alice testified that Blymyer, who was a pow-wow
man, told them they had been 	" hexed ", and they
firmly believed such was the case. 	Blymyer, when
examined, stated that for ten years he was under a
" hex " cast by 	" Old 	Man Rehmeyer ", and that

22 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
Mrs. Noll, 	a sorceress, instructed him how to free
himself by getting a lock of the wizard's hair. 	When
asked by -thejudge, " What does hexing do to you ? "
Blyrnyer 	replied : 	" You 	can't 	rest. 	It 	takes 	the
appetite away."
Blymyer was sentenced to imprisonment for life.
None 	the 	less, 	" The 	pow-wow 	doctors 	and 	the
necromancer who told Blyrnyer that he was bewitched
by Rehmeyer continue to do business in York County
to-day, unmolested and unconcerned over Blymyer's
fate . . . York's 	trust 	in 	' medical ' 	treatment 	by
charms and incantations, based on mysterious rites
culled 	from 	mediieval 	books 	on 	witchcraft, 	seems
unbreakable " 	(Daily Express, Friday, 	I I th January,
1929)-
An essential part of the profession is that the witch
should swear allegiance to the devil, and do homage.
" They who swear fealty to the feudal Lord do so by
falling on their knees before him, giving the required
kiss and placing their joined hands between his hands,
thus symbolizing a lowly and willing obedience of
spirit, and the Demons must strictly exact a similar
homage from their subjects whenever they hold their
assemblies, although the ceremony 	is 	conducted in
the strangest and most degraded manner, as is every-
thing else they do." Thus Remy. 	A witch of Lorraine
named 	Beatrix 	Bayona 	described 	how 	when 	this
horrid society assembled " one of the Demons always
sat on a 	high throne with 	a 	proud 	and 	haughty
demeanour, and so each in turn approached him with
awe and trembling and, in sign of submission, fell
prone at his feet and reverently embraced them ".
Marion Grant, an Aberdeen witch 	( 1597)~codessed

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	23
that the devil " causit the Kis him in dyvers pairtis,
and worship him on thy kneis as thy Lord ". Elizabeth
Style and 	the 	Somerset witches 	(1664) were very
particular in their mention of the ceremonious saluta-
tion when they met the devil. 	" Alice Duke, Anne
Bishop and Mary Penny had their rendezvous about
nine of the Clock in the Night, in the Common near
Trister Gate [Stoke Trister is some two miles from
Wincanton], where they met a Man in black Clothes
with a little Band, to whom they did Courtesie and
due observance, and the Examinant verily believes
that this was the Devil."
The allegiance vowed by the witch to the devil at
her profession was renewed at almost every Sabbat,
and in fact became part of the ritual observed on
these occasions, as is noted by many authors.
" They swear allegiance to the devil," says Guazzo,
" within a circle traced upon the ground. 	Perhaps
this is because a circle is the symbol of divinity, and
the earth 	is 	God's footstool ; 	and so he wishes to
persuade them that he is the God of heaven and earth."
Mother Humphrey, an old witch of Maplestead in
Essex, instructing Joan 	Cony in the craft bade her
kneel within a circle on the ground and pray 	to
Satan when the spirits would come to her ( I 569-1570).
Jules Bois in his study S a t a n h and 	magi^ speaks of
homage rendered to Satan by those who stand within
the circle.
A familiar, an attendant spirit or demon to obey
the commands and serve the pleasure of the witch,
is assigned to the newly-professed upon admission.
In Holy Writ we are told that King Saul " had put
away those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards,

24 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
out of the land ", but when on the eve of Gilboa " the
Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by
Urim, nor by the prophets ",he said to his servants,
" Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that
I may go to her and enquire of her. 	And his servants
said to him, Behold there is a woman that hath a fami-
liar spirit at En-dor " (I Samuel xxwr, 3,6, 7, A. V.).
In Leviticus we have the divine injunction : " A man
also or woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a
wizard, shall surely be put to death" 	(xx, 27).
William Forbes in his Institute of the Laws of Scotland
writes that " to some [the Devil] gives certain Spirits
or Imps to correspond with, and serve them as their
Familiars, known to them 	by 	some odd 	Names, 	to
which 	they 	answer 	when 	called ". 	The 	familiar
assumed various forms, sometimes human, sometimes
animal, most conveniently to suit the business upon
which he was 	employed. 	Bishop Binsfeld in 	his
A 	Complete Review 	of 	the 	Confessions of 	Warlocks and
Witches lays stress upon 	these particulars, 	and 	(in
agreement with all other authorities) shows how the
familiar can disguise himself in that form which is
most apt for his requirement. Many writers, however,
assert that the familiar can never assume a perfect
form, whether human or animal, that is to say there
will always be some ugly blemish, some deformity,
although of course this may be cunningly hidden and
disguised.
In his celebrated A 	Treatise of Ghosts, the Capuchin
Father Noel Taillepied writes : " Solid historians tell
us that 	the Pagans had their Lares, Penates, and
inferior household 	deities, 	whom they honoured as
the protectors of the family and the home, and who

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	*5
were none other than familiar spirits who manifested
themselves and made it their business to interfere in
mortal affairs in order that they might induce and
entice men to worship them. 	Thus the account given
by 	Froissart 	of 	the 	demon 	Orthon 	is 	deservedly
famous."
Raymond, lord of 	Corasse, 	which 	is about seven
leagues from Orthez, Btarn, having affronted a derk
curate of Catalonia, was 	by 	the 	command of 	this
necromancer 	visited 	by 	a 	familiar, 	Orthon, 	who
arrived amid a great gale and tempest. 	Raymond,
however, struck a pact with the demon, who was wont
daily to bring news from almost all quarters of the
globe, but who stoutly refused to say how he travelled
to and fro, whether or not he was winged. 	Being
pressed to manifest himself under some visible form
he bade Raymond look from his window early in the
morning. 	There was nothing to be seen save two
straws twisting and 	untwisting in 	a 	gust of wind.
That night Orthon revealed he was 	one 	of 	those
straws. 	He agreed to show himself again, but when
Raymond saw a huge sow, very lean and ill-favoured,
in the courtyard, he cried to loo the dogs at 	her,
whereon the shape melted into air, and never again
did Orthon return to the castle. Raymond died within
the twelvemonth.
The witch's familiar or Astral Spirit is a demon,
and as such the word will be used here. 	Other names
signifying a familiar are bunn (generally a term of
endearment), imp, likeness, spirit, devil, fiend, angel,
maumet, puckrel, nigget.
In 	reference 	to 	this 	connotation 	of 	the 	term
" familiar " it is interesting to note what Professor

26 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
T. Gwynn Jones tells us in his study 	Welsh Folklore
and Folk 	Custom. 	Having discussed haunted houses,
ghosts, and poltergeists, he continues, " There is in
Welsh tradition some uncertainty as to the character
of the Familiar Spirit and its relation to the person
f.whom 	it 	serves. 	Codi 	cythreuliaid, 	to 	summon
devils ' is properly a matter of witchcraft, depending
upon certain formulae which even professed magicians
sometimes failed to control. 	That the familiar spirits
in Wales, like those employed by magicians elsewhere
in the eighteenth and preceding centuries were mostly
' demons ', there is no reason to doubt. 	Although
they were generally invisible, at least to others, they
were 	also 	frequently 	visible 	in 	various 	shapes-
those of a fiery ball, a roaring flame, a round bowl,
a goose or a gosling, a dog, especially a mastiff, a
bull, 	and 	a 	lovely young woman 	are noted. 	. . .
Persons who had seen such demons refused to describe
the sight and often died soon after the occurrence.
There seems to have been belief not only in a demon
coming when called and doing what he was told to do,
but also in a comparatively harmless type of familiar,
attaching himself to certain persons without invocation
and performing certain duties of their own choice."
Mr. Wirt Sikes, who was the United States Consul
for Wales, writes in his British Goblins : 	" The sort
of 	familiar 	spirit 	employed 	by 	magicians 	in 	the
eighteenth and preceding centuries was distinctly 	a
demon." 	Thus the familiar controlled by Sir Dafydd
Llwyd is celebrated throughout all Wales. 	Sir Dafydd
Llwyd, who lived in Cardiganshire in the reign of
Charles 11, had studied black magic at Oxford. 	He
practised as a physician and was far famed for his

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	*7
skill and the wonderful cures he effected. 	Originally
he had held a curacy but he was deprived on account
of his 	abominable sorceries. 	The chief source of
information concerning this old magician is a work
very seldom to be met with, A Relation of the Apparition
of Spirits in the County o f Monmouth and the Primpality of
Wales by Edmund Jones, who in the first years of the
nineteenth century was Pastor of the congregation of
Protestant Dissenters at the Ebenezer Chapel near
Pontypool. 	The Rev. 	Edmund Jones, 	commonly
known 	as 	" Prophet Jones ", was 	himself 	a 	very
extraordinary character. 	Not only his fervent piety
and eloquence in the pulpit but, as evidenced by his
nickname, 	his 	insight 	into 	the 	future 	made 	him
remarkable. 	As he himself often averred, a belief in
ghosts, witches, fairies, and the whole order of super-
natural beings was part and parcel of the Christian
faith, and the man who denied the goblin world was
no better than a Sadducee and a rank infidel.
" It was Sir Dafjrdd 	Llywd's 	great wickedness to
make use of a familiar spirit. . . . The bishop did
well in turning him out of the sacred office, though he
was no ill-tempered man, for how unfit was such a
man 	to 	read 	the 	Sacred 	Scripture ! 	With 	what
conscience could he 	ask the sponsors in baptism to
undertake for the child to renounce the world, the
flesh, and the devil, who was himself familiar with
one of the spirits of darkness ? . . . Of this Sir Dafydd
I have heard much but chiefly depend upon what was
told to me by the Rev. Mr. Thomas Lewis, the curate
of Landdw and Tolachdy, an excellent preacher of the
gospel ; and not sufficiently esteemed by his people,
(which likely will bring a judgement on them in time

2 8 	THE PROFESSION 	OF WITCHCRAFT
to come). Mr. Lewis knew the young woman who had
been Sir Dafydd's maid servant, and the house where
he lived." 	The story went that Sir DafLdd kept his
familiar locked up in a book of spells. 	On one occasion
he accidently left this book behind him, and at once
sent his page home to fetch it, strictly charging him
not 	to open it. 	The lad being, 	as boys use, of an
inquisitive turn 	of mind, 	on 	his way back 	to his
master began 	to turn 	over 	the 	leaves, 	and 	read
although the words were quite unintelligible to him.
Suddenly there issued forth a huge cacodemon who
with a frowning face in a gruff grumbling voice asked
to be set to work. 	The boy in spite of his terror had
the wit to say : 	" Fetch me some stones out of the
river Wye." 	In a few moments stones and pebbles
began to fly through the air, when Sir Dafydd, who
from the delay had a shrewd suspicion of what must
have happened, came hurrying upon the scene, and
conjured the spirit back into the book before any
serious mischief had been done.
Whilst Cornelius Agrippa was lecturing at Louvain
there happened to be lodging in the same house as
this famous occult philosopher and his wife a young
student, who had long been very anxious to pry into
all the secrets of divination and goety. 	His chance
he thought 	with 	glee 	was 	now surely come. 	But
Agrippa when 	he went 	abroad invariably 	double-
locked his study door and carried the keys in his purse.
The youth who was handsome, rash, eloquent, and
of a 	warm amorous complexion, as a preliminary
began to woo the lady pretty hotly, nor was it long
indeed before she granted him an ample share of her
favours. 	This wanton was 	Agrippa's 	third wife, a

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	*9
native of Mechlin, who had much beauty but so little
honesty that he was at last compelled to divorce her.
Nor would she have hesitated to filch her husband's
keys had 	opportunity offered, as her gallant often
wheedled and pressed her, 	but 	they were too safely
guarded for even her nimble fingers to reach, and
conscious of her adulteries she shrank from arousing
suspicion in any direction. At length urgent business,
a 	wealthy 	and 	exacting patient-for 	Agrippa was
practising 	and 	highly 	esteemed 	as 	a 	physician-
compelled him to be absent for some days, and mean-
while he entrusted his keys to his wife, most strictly
enjoining her that nobody should so much as venture to
set foot across the threshold of his study. She promised
that he should be obeyed in every particular, and no
sooner had he ridden off than she hastened to hand over
to her lover the bunch of keys, only begging him not
to move anything or displace a single caliper or sphere.
He protested that he would use every caution, indeed
he desired no more than a peep at the workshop of so
great and reverend a master, at the same time in his
own mind he had determined to purloin some manu-
script or formula which might instruct him in the art
of turning metal into gold, perhaps he might even
secure a pinch of the powder of transmutation itself.
It was late and the house was wrapped in sleep when
the adventurous young man crept softly down the
stairs and unhasped the door of the mysterious sanctum.
As half-daring, half-afraid, he held the flickering lamp
high above his head he saw that upon the philosopher's
desk there lay open a huge book close written as it
seemed in scarlet characters which might be blood.
Gently drawing to the door, lest he should be interrupted

30 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
at 	his 	unhallowed 	task, 	he 	advanced, 	set 	down
his light upon the table, and seating himself in the
quaintly carven chair he bent to con that cabalistic
page. 	What secrets did it hold, what runes of awful
power ? 	The cipher was strange, in no tongue he
knew, but he made shift as he pored thereon to pro-
nounce some few words. 	Suddenly he fancies he hears
a sharp knock upon the door. 	He listened for a
moment, but all was still. He turns to his task. Hardly
has he uttered some half a dozen syllables more than
the knock is repeated with awful force. 	Leaping to
his feet he tries to speak, but his tongue is parched and
dry and he cannot articulate a sound. His hair bristles,
and his body is cold with the sweat of fear. The door,
slowly turning on its hinges, discloses a stranger of
majestic form upon whose face there sits eternally
a grim black scowl and whose eyes glow with fury
like red coals of fire. 	Advancing he sternly demands
in threatening tones why he was summoned. 	" I did
not call you," 	stammers the wretched youth. 	" You
did ! " cried the stranger, " and learn that demons are
not invoked by fools in vain ! " 	His crooked claws
are at the young man's throat, and a moment later
he cast aside his body as it were some empty husk
upon the floor. 	Not many hours after dawn Agrippa
in silence and with frowning brow comes swiftly back
to his house. 	He enters the study, and with a glance he
realizes what has happened, even as he guessed whilst
many 	leagues 	away. 	With 	mighty 	gestures 	and
impious 	charm 	he 	recalls 	the 	familiar whom 	he
sharply upbraids for so rash a deed, commanding the
murderous spirit to assume a human form, and then
immediately to reanimate the poor dead body and to

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	3'
walk forth with it up and down in the market place
and 	crowded streets. 	With horrid mutterings the
demon obeys. 	He appears as a grave and-sober
burgher of middle years in rich attire. 	The student
revives, 	and 	putting his arm 	through 	that 	of his
unearthly 	companion, they go forth together very
friendly in the sight of all the passers-by. 	They even
enter the college courts and quadrangles and 	are
hailed by the dead man's comrades with jest and merry
greeting as they bustle to and fro to lecture-rooms and
classes. 	It is noon ; from tall belfry and from lowlier
convent gablet rings forth the Angelus. Cold and lifeless
the youth falls to the ground ; 	his companion 	is
nowhere to be seen. At first it is thought he has expired
in some apoplexy or fatal fit. 	But when they examine
his body marks of strangulation are found on the
neck. 	The prints of the cruel claw of the demon are
only too plain. 	It is whispered that his companion
vanished in a flash of flame. 	Suspicion is aroused.
The 	magistrates 	institute 	inquiries. 	They 	visit
Agrippa's 	house, and question those dwelling there.
That evening Agrippa and his wife fly from the town.
So the legend runs. 	Similar stories are related of
many warlocks and 	there is no 	reason why 	they
should not in effect be substantially true. The ignorant
who meddle with magic out of the itch of an idle and
wicked curiosity are courting dangers whereof they are
wholly unaware.
It 	was 	a 	very 	ancient and 	widespread 	notion,
possibly of oriental origin, that a witch might keep and
confine his familiar in some one instrument or place.
There was a common proverb, for example, in the
fifteenth century, " Beware of the devil in Ossiach."

32 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
Now Ossiach was a Benedictine monastery in Austria,
and the story went that the monks had imprisoned a
demon in 	a 	crystal or glass vial. 	Paracelsus was
believed to have confined his familiar in the pommel
of his sword. 	There is nothing either theologically or
philosophically impossible in the fact that a spiritual
body, an angel (either good or evil) can be contained
in 	even a point of space.
In the Canary Isles, before the natives embraced
Christianity, familiar spirits who had assumed human
forms could be seen walking about, not only at night
but in broad day, conversing with and accompanying
their wizard masters on various businesses.
A 	famous Spanish scholar and 	physician of the
sixteenth 	century, 	Dr. 	Eugenio 	Torralba 	(who
incidentally 	is 	mentioned 	by 	Cervantes 	in 	Don
Quixote) was for many years ministered to and served
by a familiar. 	Whilst Torralba was still a young man,
a 	student of medicine, 	he 	formed, owing to 	their
interest in the same pursuits, an intimacy with a certain
Fra Pietro, a Dominican. 	One day the friar in close
confidence imparted to his friend that he was attended
by an angel or genius named Zequiel (Ezechiel). 	He
was bound by no pact or vow, however, to this spirit
upon whom he merely had 	to call for help to be
relieved in any necessity and advised as to his future
undertakings. 	Fra Pietro promised to present Torralba
to Zequiel, and at a fitting opportunity the form of a
young man with fair hair and a mild countenance
stood before them. 	Addressing the doctor the spirit
said : 	" I will hold myself at your service so long as
you live, and 	I 	will follow you faithfully wherever
you go." 	There was no suggestion of any other bond

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILLAR 	33
or agreement between the two. Henceforward Zequiel
appeared to the doctor at the quarterly changes of
the moon, and more often, whenever he was sum-
moned, if there was need of him. 	Torralba expressly
stated that the spirit had never uttered a word contrary
to 	religion, 	never 	given 	him 	bad 	counsel, 	never
inspired 	evil 	thoughts, 	and 	not 	infrequently 	even
accompanied him to Holy Mass, so that he verily
thought an angel was his monitor and guide.
On one important occasion Torralba was consulted
by Cardinal Bernadine Lopez de Carvajal, a theologian
of acknowledged eminence, concerning a dark and
mysterious business. 	A lady of wealth and position
had with great trepidation and alarm informed the
Cardinal 	that 	she 	was 	nightly 	disturbed 	by 	the
phantom of a man, completely unknown to her, who
declared that he had been murdered and unavailingly
sought rest. 	The Cardinal had directed his 	body-
physician Morales to watch with the lady and report
what 	occurred. 	Morales 	for 	several 	nights 	had
remained in the chamber but could discern nothing.
although at a certain hour he felt a chill as if of the
grave, accompanied by a loathly smell of corruption
which filled him with no ordinary horror and fear,
whilst the lady cried out that the ghost had appeared.
Cardinal Carvajal, knowing Torralba's deep studies in
occultism, prayed him to join 	Morales at the next
opportunity, and accordingly the 	two doctors took
their station in the haunted room. 	About one o'clock
they heard an anguished cry, the air grew deathly
cold and was filled with the stench of human decay.
Torralba saw by the bed the figure of a man covered
with wounds, the countenance distorted and pale with

34 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
pain. 	A 	little further there lurked an even more
terrifying apparition, the half-formed shadow of an
evil woman, her vile face leering horribly from the
darkness. 	" What would you ? " demanded the scryer.
'' The treasure ! the treasure ! " moaned the vision.
Upon being questioned, Zequiel informed Torralba
that in a cellar long years before had been buried the
body 	of 	a 	miser, 	assassinated, 	all 	unshriven 	and
unhouseled, for the vast sums it was known he had
concealed in the house. 	The woman, whose spectre
had been seen, was his servant who had admitted the
ruffians with whom she was in league, but after the
murder 	they 	could 	not 	find 	the 	hiding-place 	of
the money-bags, and so perforce remained unsatisfied.
The 	crime had 	never 	been 	discovered. 	Zequiel
revealed the sliding panel which gave access to the
secret room where the wealth was stored, and which
actually opened out of the lady's bedchamber. 	The
money being thus recovered, a part was devoted to
masses for the dead man's 	soul, the remainder to
other pious and charitable uses, and so the unhappy
and unquiet house found rest.
Eventually 	Torralba 	was 	denounced 	to 	the
Inquisition as a sorcerer. 	When examined he frankly
acknowledged his intercourse with Zequiel, who was,
he 	maintained, 	a 	good 	spirit, 	perhaps a n 	angel.
After a long investigation the lightest of sentences
was passed, mainly consisting of a formal and public
abjuration of all heresies and magic. He was, however,
bound by 	a 	solemn oath to hold no further com-
munication with the familiar.
Zequiel, 	as 	we 	have 	remarked, 	appeared 	as 	a
comely fair-haired young man. 	A Suffolk witch of the

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	35
reign of Charles I1 confessed that the demon visited
her " in the form of a Pretty handsom Young Man
first ". 	More often the familiar is evil-favoured and
misshapen, so ugly indeed as to betray his diabolic
origin. 	The late Mrs. Violet Tweedale saw a familiar
of this kind at Nice. 	She noticed that a certain Prince
Valori, who frequented the fashionable Riviera, seemed
always to be attended and shadowed by a man in
grotesque attire. 	This personage 	was 	gaunt 	and
emaciated, 	" with very long thin legs, and he was
dressed entirely in chocolate brown-a 	sort of close-
fitting cowl was drawn over his head, and his curious
long, impish face was made more weird by 	s m d ,
sharply pointed ears rising on each side of his head.
He appeared to have 	' got himself up ' to look like
a satyr or some such mythical monstrosity." 	At 	a
fancy-dress ball 	Mrs. 	Tweedale 	saw Prince Valori
magnificently costumed as a French courtier of the
eighteenth century, and by his side moved the man in
brown. 	They came 	up 	to her, and she naturally
concluded that he was about to present his friend.
The Prince, however, seated himself by her and talked
whilst the satyr stood behind them in perfect silence.
Mrs. Tweedale says that she felt exceedingly uneasy
all the while. 	Later she took the opportunity of
quietly asking a Russian lady, a clairvoyante, who the
brown satyr was. 	" Why don't you know ? " was the
reply. " It is his familiar who constantly attends him.
People 	say 	they 	became 	attached 	whilst 	he 	was
assisting at a Sabbath in the Vosges, and he can't get
rid of it. 	Sabbaths are still held at Lutzei, and each
initiate receives a familiar. 	The familiars have names
-Minette, 	Verdelet, and so forth. One of my ancestors

36 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
de Laski, the Polish boyar who patronized Dr. Dee,
owned 	a 	familiar 	called 	Sainte-Buisson." 	" Then
the satyr attached to Prince Valori is not flesh and
blood ? 	Horrible ! " exclaimed Mrs. Tweedale. 	" Is
he 	always there ? " 	" Oh yes. 	Any one 	who 	is
clairvoyant sees him. 	I 	myself have seen him in
Paris." 	A few mornings after, Mrs. Tweedale meeting
Prince Valori on the Promenade des Anglais boldly
asked him, 	" By the way who is that tall man so
curiously dressed in 	brown 	I 	have seen with 	you
lately? " 	The Prince's face changed : 	" You also,"
he 	muttered. 	" My 	remark 	was 	a 	thoughtless
impertinence. 	I am sorry to have hurt you. 	Pray
don't answer." 	He shook his head gloomily, and after
a moment's silence, " I am not the only one in the
world so afflicted," 	he said.
Mrs. 	Tweedale 	knew 	General 	Elliot, 	who 	com-
manded the forces in Scotland, and was a distinguished
figure in society in the nineties. 	The General had a
familiar 	" Wononi ", to whom he actually used to
speak aloud in the middle of a dinner party.
The animal familiar, imp or maumet-" 	puckrel "
is the old English country name-was 	quite distinct
from the familiar in human shape. 	In England, most
frequently in Essex, Suffolk, and the Eastern Counties,
and in Scotland there is abundance of evidence con-
cerning the puckrel. 	" To some of the baser sorte of
them 	[witches] 	he [the devil] oblishes him 	selfe to
appear at their calling upon him, by such a proper
name which he shewes unto them, either in likenes
of a dog, a Catte, an Ape, or such-like other beast ;
or else to answere by a voyce onlie. 	The effects are to
answere 	to 	such demands, 	as 	concernes curing of

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	37
diseases, their own particular 	menagery : 	or such
other base things as they require of him. 	But to the
most curious sorte, in the forrnes he will oblish himself,
to enter in a dead bodie, and there out of to give such
answers, of the event of battels, of maters concerning
the estate of commonwelths, and such like other great
questions : yea, to some he will be a continual1attender,
in forme of a Page : He will permit himselfe to be
conjured, for the space of so many yeres, either in a
tablet or a ring, or such like thing, which they may
easily carrie about with them." 	Thus concisely King
James VI of Scotland (not to be James I of England for
another half a dozen years) in his famous D m n o l o g i e
summed up the question of familiars.
At Windsor, in 1579, Mother Dutton, who lived at
Clewer kept " a Spirite or Fiende in the likenesse of
a Toade ". 	Mother Devell, whose cottage was " nigh
the Ponde in Windesore " had a spirit in the shape of a
black cat, called Jill. 	Mother Margaret, a cripple, who
was 	in 	the 	Windsor 	almshouses, 	maintained 	a
" Kitlyng or Feende by her named Ginnie ". 	One
notorious witch of that knot " kept a Ratte, beeyng
in very deede a wicked Spirite, naming it Philip ",
and this rat she fed with blood 	" issuing from her
right 	hand 	wrest, 	the 	markes 	whereof 	evidently
remain ". 	The 	Lancashire witch Mother Demdike
entertained a familiar who first appeared in the shape
of a boy, but later in the likeness of a brown dog, and
was called Tibb.
This was in the early seventeenth century, the reign
of James 	I, but to come down to the present day, a
resident of Horseheath, a village about fourteen miles
from Cambridge, gave the following details regarding

38 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
the sorceries of Mother Redcap, a notorious witch
who died in 1926. 	c c One day a black man called,
produced a book, and asked her to sign her name in it.
The woman signed the 	book, 	and 	the mysterious
stranger then told her she would be the mistress of
five imps who would carry out her orders. 	Shortly
afterwards the woman was seen out accompanied by
a rat, a cat, a toad, a ferret, and a mouse. 	Everybody
believed she was a witch and many people visited her to
obtain cures " 	(The Sunday Chronicle, 	9th 	September,
I 928).
Very frequently the witch did (and for the matter of
that does) keep some small animal which is nourished
on a diet of milk and bread, and often stimulated with
drops of her own blood, in order that she may divine
by its means. 	The details of this particular method
of augury are by no means clear. Yet it seems certain
that something unhallowed and even diabolical must
enter in, and we are bound to regard the medium as
magical or ensorcelled. 	Probably of old the witch
observed the gait of the animals, and its actions ; the
tones of its voice were easily interpreted to bear some
fanciful or likely meaning, whilst no doubt a dog, or
such a bird as a raven, a daw, a pie, could be taught
tricks to impress the simplicity of inquirers. 	At the
same time it is a very well known fact that most
animals are not merely extraordinarily intelligent but
also extraordinarily psychic. 	The dog and the cat
and many birds are in close touch with the unknown.
Both dogs and cats are aware of any coming misfortune
in a house, especially if it be a death. Dogs, moreover,
have the faculty of seeing ghosts and are afraid of the
supernatural. 	This is common knowledge.

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	39
The witch's familiar might be obtained in various
ways. 	The demon familiar who appears in human
form can only be procured at the sabbat, or else by
some very explicit covenant with the fiend following
upon a direct invocation. 	Thus, as has been noted,
Prince Valori obtained his infernal companion at a
sabbat in the Vosges. 	Virginie, the maidservant of
Madame Belloc, a pious lady living at Agen at the
beginning of the last century, confessed to her mistress
that she was a 	Satanist and at a Sabbat had been
assigned a familiar, an unclean spirit, who appeared
as a young man and frequently had commerce with her.
" The Laplanders bequeath their demons as part
of their 	inheritance which 	is 	the 	reason that 	one
family excels another in this magical art." 	So often
the puckrel was presented by the older witch of a
family 	to 	the 	younger 	witches. 	Alice Hunt 	and
Margery Salmon, two witches of Saint Osyth, were
given two familiars apiece by their mother, Mother
Barnes. 	Sometimes too 	a 	witch would 	present 	a
familiar to another member of the society. 	Mother
Waterhouse, a 	Chelmsford witch, possessed a black
cat 	sent to 	her 	by 	the 	grandmother 	of Elizabeth
Francis, 	a 	fellow witch. 	The 	old 	woman 	added
instructions that the cat must be carefully nourished
with blood and bread and milk.
The demon familiar, even in animal form, could
converse. The Devil appeared in the size and shape of
a 	dunnish 	coloured 	ferret 	to Joan 	Prentice, 	who
dwelt in the almshouse at Hinningham Sibble. 	She
was preparing for bed when the ferret, whose eyes
glowed red as fire, came out of a corner and cried :
"Joan Prentice give me thy soul." 	" What art thou ? "

40 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
stammered 	the 	wretched 	old 	woman, 	sore 	afraid.
6 6
" I am Satan," came the reply, 	fear me not. 	I am
here to obtain thy soul." 	At night a grey shadowy
thing stood by the straw pallet of Elizabeth Clarke in
her miserable hovel at Manningtree and talked with
her, and anon brought her victuals. 	The imps of
Elizabeth 	Hubbard, 	a poor widow of Stowmarket,
were like three children who kept whispering that she
must deny God, Christ, and all good works. 	By their
aid 	she 	wrought 	fearful 	mischief 	throughout 	the
neighbourhood.
The familiar might 	also be procured 	by 	certain
impious rites or actions involving a profanation 	of
Holy Communion. 	As early as the twelfth century
Gerald de Barry, the distinguished Welsh writer, warns
priests against letting the Host by any accident get into
the hands of magicians. 	In 	the thirteenth century
Jacques de Vitry has an account of a woman who kept
the wafer in her mouth intending to convey it out of
church for witchcraft. 	A little later we find Berthold
of Ratisbon, one of the most famous preachers of the
day, 	denouncing 	those, 	"who 	do 	witchcraft 	with
God's Body, for that is the greatest of all sins that
ever the world 	committed," 	whilst 	those 	who 	are
guilty of such horrid impiety are " to the devil the
dearest that he hath ever begotten ".
On Spy Wednesday the Waldensians were wont to
attend the confessional with a great outward show of
penitence and devotion, and when they made their
Easter Communion they would secretly let slip the
Host out of their mouths and under cover of their
sleeves hide it in a handkerchief or glove. 	Then they
would carry it home and throw it to certain toads


CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	41
which they used to keep and nourish in earthen pots
and other vessels. 	Sometimes when the toads had
eaten the Host the reptiles were killed and their blood
employed to confect a certain charm. 	Occasionally
the wizards were commanded to bring the Host to
the Sabbat in order that they might defile the Body
of God with every possible circumstance of filth and
profanity.
In 1582 the wife of Edward Jones was called upon
to prove to the satisfaction of the Archdeacon of Lewes
" that she did eat the Communion bread and put yt
not in hir glove ".
James 	Device, one of the Lancashire coven, was
bidden by his grandmother old Demdike on Sheare
Thursday morning to go to church to receive the
Communion (the next day after being Good Friday),
but not to eat the Bread the Minister gave him, since
he was to deliver it to such a thing as should meet
him on his way home. 	Yet he did eat the Bread, and
as he was returning home, not more than a couple
of hundred yards away from the church door, there
met him a thing in the shape of a hare, and this asked
him if he brought the Bread as his grandmother had
bidden him. 	When he replied he had not, the thing
threatened to tear him in pieces. 	Shaking with fear,
he made the sign of the Cross, whereupon the thing
vanished from his sight.
At the beginning of the 	eighteenth 	century two
old dames attended the morning service at Llanddewi
Brefi Church, and partook of the Holy Communion ;
but instead of eating the sacred bread like other com-
municants, they kept it in their mouths and went out.
Then they walked round 	the church outside nine

42 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
times, and at the ninth time the Evil One came out
of the Church wall in the form of a frog, to whom they
gave the bread from their mouths, and by doing this
wicked thing they were supposed to be selling them-
selves to Satan and become witches.-There 	was an
old man in North Pembrokeshire who used to say that
he obtained the power of bewitching in the following
manner : 	The bread 	of his first Communion he
pocketed. 	He made pretence of eating it first of all,
and then put it in his pocket. 	When he went out from
the service there was a dog meeting him by the gate, to
which he gave the bread, thus selling his soul to the
Devil. 	Ever after he possessed the power to bewitch.
The same profane practice persisted both in Berk-
shire and in Lincolnshire. 	Not fifty years ago in the
latter county an old woman tried to persuade a young
girl to keep at least haK the Bread in her mouth at
her first Communion, promising her that thus she
should become a witch.
In July, 	1873, Mr. 	W. 	H. 	Gamlen, of Brampford
Spoke, Exeter, read a paper at Sidmouth, which was
afterwards printed in the Transactions of the Devomhire
Association. 	He exhibited and discussed that curious
talisman, the toad-stone. 	The specimen in question
had belonged to a Mr. Blagdon, of Puddington, to
whose house persons from all parts of the county
constantly resorted to borrow it, since it was supposed
to cure complaints that were presumed to be beyond
the skill of regular medical men to aid, such complaints
having been caused by some wicked person having
obtained power from the devil to do mischief. 	The
person to obtain the power must be a communicant
of the Church of England or Rome. 	" The power was

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	43
said to be obtained by keeping such a portion of the
elements 	on 	receiving 	the 	Sacrament, 	and, 	after
carrying them round 	the church and using certain
incantations, giving them to a toad met with in the
churchyard."
A 	Manx 	" Obbery " 	(superstitious 	sorcery) 	is
" Bringing home some of the Sacramental Bread and
making crumbs of it, when a huge black stag-beetle
will come and eat it ".
Grotesque names were generally given to the familiar :
In France, Lizabet, Verd-Joli, 	Maitre Persil (parsley),
Verdelet, Sainte-Buisson, Abrahel 	(a succubus) ; 	in
Germany, Reicheher, 	Schwarzburg,Jammer, 	Helle-
krug, Kuhfuss ; and in England, especially to animal
familiars, Grissell, Greedigut, Blackman, Jezebel 	(a
succubus), 	Ilemanzar, 	Jarrnara, 	Pyewackett, 	Elva,
Jeso, Arouta, Cramega, Panu, Vinegar Tom. 	Among
the imps which Marion Hocket gave Sarah Barton of
Hanvich 	were two called 	Pretty-man 	and Dainty.
So one of the 	Italian witches named 	his familiar,
Fiorino.
Michael Dalton, the famous legal writer and author
of 	The 	County Justice, 	who died about the 	middle
of the seventeenth century, summarizes the following
articles from the Rev. Richard Bernard's Guide to Grand
Jurymen 	as being (among others) of prime importance
in trials for witchcraft.
I. 	These 	witches 	have 	ordinarily 	a 	familiar 	or
spirit, which appeareth to them ; sometimes in one
shape, sometimes in another, such as in the shape of a
man, woman, boy, dog, cat, foal, fowl, hare, rat, toad,
etc. 	And to these their spirits they give names, and
they meet together to christen them (as they speak).

44 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
2. 	Their said familiar hath some big or little teat
upon their body, and in some secret place, where he
sucketh them. 	And besides their sucking, the Devil
leaveth other marks upon their body, sometimes like
a blue spot or red spot, like a flea-biting ; sometimes
the flesh sunk in and hollow (all which for a time may
be covered, yea taken away, but will come again, to
their old form). 	And 	these the Devil's 	marks be
insensible, and being pricked will not bleed, and be
often in their secretest parts, and therefore require
diligent and careful search.
These first two are main points to discover and
convict these witches ; for they prove fully that those
witches have a familiar, and made a league with the
Devil.
The " big or little teat " or pap upon the witch's
body, said to secrete milk which nourished the familiar,
and which was one of the main points to discern and
convict witches, must be carefully distinguished from
the insensible devil-mark to be considered later.
In the case of the Witch of Edmonton, Elizabeth
Sawyer, who was in spite of her resistance searched
upon the express order of the Bench, it was found by
Margaret Weaver, a widow of honest reputation, and
two other grave matrons, who performed this duty,
that there was upon her body 4'a thing like a Teate
the bignesse of the little finger, and the length of half
a finger, which was branched at the top like a teate,
and seemed as though one had suckt it ". A boy, only
nine years old, who lived at Rattesden, a srrkill village
in Suffolk, confessed that 	" he suckled an imp, and
commanded it to do mischief". 	He came of a bad
stock, being the son of a witch, who had been hanged

CONTRACT AND THE FAMILIAR 	45
( I 645). 	John Palmer, of St. Albans ( I 64g), confessed
that " upon his compact with the Divel, hee received
a flesh brand 	or mark, upon his side, which gave
suck to two familiars ". 	The Kentish witch, Mary
Read, of Lenham (1652)~	" had a visible Teat, under
her Tongue, and did show it to many." At St. Albans
about 1660 there was a wizard who " had like a Breast
on his side ". 	There is similar evidence adduced in
the accounts of Rose Cullender and Amy Duny, two
Suffolk 	witches, 	executed 	in 	I 665 ; 	Temperance
Lloyd, a 	Bideford 	witch, hanged 	in 	1682 ; 	Widow
Coman, an Essex witch, who died in her bed (1699) ;
and, indeed, innumerable other examples might be
quoted affording a whole catena of pertinent illustra-
tions. 	The phenomenon, it is observable, seems to be
stressed only in the 	records of 	England 	and New
England, where, however, it is of exceedingly frequent
occurrence. 	No doubt many of such instances are
explicable by the cases of polymastia ( m a m m erratim)
and polythelia (supernumerary nipples) of which there
are continual records in recent medical works. 	It must
be freely admitted that these anatomical divagations
are commoner than is generally supposed ; frequently
they are so slight that they may pass almost unnoticed ;
admittedly 	there 	is 	exaggeration in 	many 	of 	the
inexactly 	observed 	seventeenth 	century 	narratives.
However, it has to be said that when every most
generous allowance is made, the facts which remain
(and the details are very ample) cannot be covered
by physical peculiarities and malformations.
As we know, a number of devils were permitted to
enter 	swine, 	and 	certain 	writers 	have 	held 	(and
nothing is more probable) that demons entered into

46 	THE PROFESSION OF WITCHCRAFT
these animal familiars, and that bound by a blood
contract with the witch and nourished with human
blood by the reeks and vapours of which they are
recreated for " her young ones also suck up blood ",
they obeyed the commands of the person they served,
going forth to do mischief even to the destruction
of life. When they thus assumed the form of or entered
into an animal they are clearly c c not perfectly abstract
from all bod^ and matter " wherefore the natural appetite
of the animal would persist, and hence it must needs
be fed in the ordinary way as well as rewarded with
the sip of blood. 	This seems a simple and satisfactory
explanation of various details in the mystery of the
familiar that may appear puzzling. 	Glanvil suggests
that further the sucking of blood 	" may be onely a
diabolical Sacrament and Ceremony to confirm the hellish
Cownant ", whereby the witches become "mischievously
inJuentia2" .
What wonder then that in 1604 there was passed
an Act, 	I Jas. 	I, c. 	12, against Conjuration, Witch-
craft, 	and 	dealing 	with 	evil 	and 	Wicked 	Spirits,
whereby it 	was 	ordered 	that 	if 	" any 	person 	or
persons . . . shall 	use 	practise 	or 	exercise 	any
Invocation or Conjuration of any evil and wicked
Spirit, or shall consult covenant with entertain employ
feed or reward any evil and wicked Spirit to or for
any intent or purpose . . . then every such offender
or offenders, their Aiders, Abettors and Counsellors
being of any the said Offences duly and lawfully
convicted and attainted, shall suffer pains of death as
a Felon or Felons, and shall lose the privelege and
benefit of Clergy and Sanctuary ".

CHAPTER 	I1
Thenjbukh Hell, and mighty Mischief reign I
DRYDEN,	The Duke of Guise.
Many of thcm also which used curious arts brwqlit their books
together, and burned them before aU men :and they counted the pries
of them, and found it fifty thousand p i e m of silver.
The Acts of the Apostles, xix, 19.
The 	rnost 	complete, as it 	is 	certainly the most
authoritative, summary of the mischiefs wrought by
witchcraft is that 	delivered in the famous Bull of
Innocent VIII where the evil is set forth in words of
burning eloquence and conviction : " Many persons
of both sexes unmindful of their own salvation and
straying from the Catholic Faith, have abandoned
themselves to devils, incubi and succubi, and by their
incantations, spells, conjurations, and other accursed
charms and crafts, enormities and horrid offences,
have slain infants yet in the mother's womb, as also
the offspring of cattle, have blasted the produce of
the earth, the grapes of the vine, the fruits of trees,
nay, men and women, beasts of burthen, herd-beasts,
as well as animals of other kinds, vineyards, orchards,
meadows, pasture-land, 	corn, wheat, and 	all other
cereals ; these wretches furthermore afffict and torment
men and women, beasts of burthen, 	herd-beasts, 	as
well as animals of other kinds, with terrible and piteous
pains and sore diseases, both internal and external ;

48 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
they 	hinder 	men 	from 	performing 	the 	sexual 	act
and women from conceiving, whence husbands cannot
know their wives nor wives receive their husbands ;
over 	and 	above this 	they 	blasphemously renounce
that 	Faith 	which 	is 	theirs 	by 	the 	Sacrament 	of
Baptism, and at the instigation of the Enemy of Man-
kind 	they 	do 	not 	shrink 	from 	committing 	and
perpetrating 	the 	foulest 	abominations 	and 	filthiest
excesses to the deadly peril of their souls whereby
they outrage the Divine Majesty and are a cause of
scandal and danger to very many."
This 	historical 	pronouncement 	carries 	no 	mere
historical interest. 	The wisdom of Pope Innocent is
speaking to us to-day, and his words are as awfully
solemn and as eternally true in the twentieth century
as they were four hundred and more years ago. 	We
have in these noble sentences set forth the very essence
of witchcraft, that is to say the implacable hate the
witch bears all mankind, and the dark power these
slaves of Satan have obtained 	to 	contrive damage
and destruction, ay, even of life, to the glut of their
murderous malice and malignity.
The witch is an evil thing, indeed ; a social pest
and parasite ; 	the devotee of a loathly and obscene
creed ; an adept at poisoning, blackmail, and other
creeping crimes ; a bawd ; an abortionist ; a minister
to vice and corruption, 'battening upon the foulest
passions of the age. 	Witches raise jars, 	-
Jealousies, strifes, and heart-burning disagreements,
Like a thick scurf o'er life.
Their baneful activities range from domestic annoy-
ances and 	accidents, singly 	trivial 	enough 	maybe,

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	49
but in 	sum 	horribly fretting and vexatious, to the
most serious injuries, the ruin of property, sudden
illness 	and 	wasting 	death, 	and 	ultimately 	to 	the
embroiling of nations, to anarchy and red revolution,
for the witch is and always has been a political factor.
The witch is, in effect, a perpetual menace, a source
of instant danger to any ordered society. 	In the
humblest walks of life, in townlets and small villages,
witches 	although 	almost 	isolated 	members 	of 	the
infernal organization are yet potential murderers, even
as the master whom they serve was a murderer from
the beginning.
A correspondent in Th Times, I 9th September, 1930,
writes : " In I goo I was living in a small Sussex village
between 	Groombridge and 	Eastbourne. 	An 	old
villager one day began to talk about witches. 	' The
worst on 'em about here's not long dead,' 	she said.
She told me a few of the common tales, injuring
children, damaging poultry, 	&c. 	Then she warmed
up. 	Pointing to the adjacent cross-roads, she said :
' I was standing just there, one day, and she was there.
Along come one of Squire 	'S 	big farm carts,
you know, him at the Park.' 	(Just then ' the Park '
was let to ' furriners '-i.e. 	non-Sussex people.) 	' She
looked at it, and down went the horses into the road
over their knees, and the cart over the axles. ' "
Another correspondent in the same paper, 	three
days later, related that when he was living in a small
town in 	Somerset about 	1912-13 	he 	used 	to visit
an old woman who told him that she had had an
ulcerated leg ever since she came to the town and that
there was no hope of her getting any better, since her
ailment was due to a bad woman next door who had
E

50 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
come and overlooked her one midnight. 	She further
remarked that Somerset was particularly full of " bad
folk ", that is to say witches. 	I suggest that the secret
tradition has been handed down from the days of
Julian Cox, Ann Bishop, and Margaret Agar.
In February, 1923, at Gorefield, a small village in
Cambridgeshire, Mr. Scrimshaw and his family were
bewitched, and much distress ensued in the house.
Mrs. Holmes, who lived about a mile away, claimed
to be able to break the spell as she had been " born
in Chime-hours ". 	I will do what I can to help neigh-
bour Scrimshaw," she said, " if they are witching him
I 	can stop them." 	She collected some apple pips ;
some locks of hair and nail parings from each member
of the family, and these with two black pins she put
in a bottle which was thrown on the kitchen fire. 	As
the bottle burst she declared the charm was broken.
However, new disturbances took place at the farm,
coincident with which Mrs.Holmes died (The Evening
Standard, I 9th March, I 923).
Four peasants were tried at Szeged (Hungary) in
January, 	1928, 	for 	having 	killed 	an 	old 	woman,
alleged to be a witch. 	The defendants were near
relations of Vincent Tokar, who had long been bed-
ridden owing to the malice of this hag. She visited him
at night, and by her cantrips drained him dry as hay
so that he dwindled, peaked and pined, and was left
in so pitiable a state that his cousins resolved even
with violence to free him from the evil spell. 	That
evening they waited in the bedchamber, and when
the woman entered swiftly dispatched her. 	The court
acquitted the accused since they had acted under
irresistible 	compulsion 	being 	compelled 	to 	believe

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	5'
in the stated origin of ~okar"s	illness. 	Moreover in the
circumstances the case indicated the existence of a
witch.
Some two years later there was a similar occurrence
in a Hungarian village. 	A 	well-to-do farmer was
seized with a sudden fever. 	One evening the sick
man, raving in delirium, shouted that a witch had
seized him by the throat and cast a curse upon him.
" Save me from the witch," he cried, " she will appear
at midnight." For three nights the family kept vigil,
and on the third night as the church clock was striking
twelve the door was flung open and a fearful crone
hobbled in, but the men of the house sprang on her
and a blow laid her dead on the floor. 	At that very
moment the farmer rose from his bed, 	completely
cured. 	Those concerned were tried for homicide
and sentenced to short terms of imprisonment, which
were much reduced by the Supreme Court at Vienna.
In September, 	1928, Camilla Illasi was convicted
at 	Padua 	of 	witchcraft, 	cruelty 	to 	animals, 	and
extortion. 	She had terrorized the village of Bassanello
for years, trafficking in black magic. She kept numbers
of birds, dogs, cats, and rabbits which she used for
her foul charms and auguries. 	The peasantry feared
and hated the witch, who long cunningly evaded the
law, but at last she was caught and reaped the full
reward of her iniquities.
Writing in 	The Church 	Times, 8th May, 	1931, and
describing the Essex village of Good Easter, Donald
Maxwell remarks that the people are still firmly con-
vinced of the power of witchcraft and the evil eye.
" There was no doubt whatever 	tha 	old 	Mother
Blankley was a witch. 	There was proof of it. 	What

52 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
about Farmer Attridgeysheifers and the strange litter
of pigs in Old Mead's barn ? 	She was a witch right
enough."
A 	tourist in Cardiganshire writing in 	The Daily
Express, 27th December, 1932, evinces surprise that in
Wales 	to-day 	many 	people 	believe 	firmly 	in 	the
power of witchcraft and the evil eye. 	" I was positive
that my little pig was bewitched when one day he sat
up on his haunches in the sty and laughed at me like a
woman I know. 	I went to the wizard about it," one
woman told him. 	Another woman said that when her
two pigs refused to eat she consulted a wise man, who
instructed her : 	" After sunset take a few hairs from
the pigs' backs. 	Rub them into a ball of lard. 	Put the
tongs over the fire and place the ball of lard on it.
You must be alone. 	You will see a blue flame and in
it the face of the person who bewitched your pigs.
Feed the pigs next morning." 	This was done, the
pigs were cured and the following day they ran to
their food.
A few years ago a lady who was walking through
the market square at Tavistock saw an old woman
pilfering small articles from the stalls. 	She called
the attention of one of the sellers to this, whereupon
the hag swiftly turning round asked : " With which
eye did you see all this ? " " With both my eyes," was
the reply. The old woman muttered quickly to herself,
and added aloud : 	" For meddling wi,th what does
not concern you, 	by this and that you shall see no
more." 	So saying she waved her hand swiftly across
the lady's face, not touching her, and hobbled away.
Within an hour the lady lost her sight, and blind she
remained until the day she died, which was in 193I .

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	53
A 	correspondent 	in 	John 	O'London's 	Weekly,
November, 	1936, observed that " even now belief in
witchcraft in the upper parts of the Wye Valley is not
quite extinct ". 	Mr. 	E. 	Thomas, 	writing in 	the
following month, remarked, " when we lived in a small
village in Montgomeryshire some years ago we found
a widespread belief in witchcraft among the farmers of
the district." 	If the cattle became sick the farmers
visited the conjurer at L+ 	to inquire who had
bewitched their beasts. 	When two farmers had 	a
serious quarrel, one of them went to the conjurer to
procure a charm to injure his neighbour.
Other methods a witch might employ to plague her
neighbours were by making the cows go dry, and so
stealing the milk ; by enchanting the churn, whence
butter would not come ; by burning the bread in the
oven or souring it ; by spoiling the ale at brewing time.
To us to-day generally these mishaps may not mean
so much, for they can at least fairly easily be rectified,
they may even appear a trifle ridiculous, not to say
comical. 	But two centuries and less ago (and in some
remoter districts now) when a household might depend
for its comfort, nay, even for its sustenance, upon the
success of these domestic operations things wear a very
different face, and such malicious interference would
have very disastrous results. 	Examples of all these
mischiefs occur again and again throughout the witch
trials. 	Alice Martin, 	a Devonshire witch, arraigned
in 1565, used to enter houses begging for milk. 	If
refused she would mutter 	" Give no milk : give no
milk ",and from that day they could make no butter
nor cheese nor have milk from their kine. 	About
ten years ago there was a notorious witch living in

54 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
Caithness who wished to buy a young cow from a
neighbouring farm. 	The owner refused to sell, saying
he needed the milk. 	The witch replied that he would
never again get milk from that cow, and her words
came 	true. 	More 	recently 	a 	Welsh 	farmer 	was
charged with assault. 	He had drawn blood from a
reputed witch, and had compelled her to come to his
house and unspeak the churn. 	He probably acted
under 	great 	provocation 	and 	was justified 	in 	his
somewhat rough and ready procedure.
Mother Waterhouse, one of the Chelmsford coven,
who was hanged in 1566, confessed that she had sent
her familiar to destroy the brewing. 	Mother Palmer,
of Framlingham, came to Robert Waite's 	house and
asked for a draught of beer. 	She was refused, and
answered the 	goodwife, "You 	will 	want 	a cup oy
beer yourself before long." 	After 	that they could
make no beer which did not sour in a couple of weeks.
The demon of Tedworth, who incited by the villainy
and 	witchcrafts 	of the 	drummer, 	so plagued 	Mr.
Mompesson's house, used to spoil the food by filling
the porringers with ashes.
In Guernsey, not many years ago, a witch ruined
the melons by the blight of a small black fly which
the scientists found it impossible to recognize.
A particularly Ioathly annoyance whereby witches
tormented their victims was through an uncouth spell
to render them verminous. 	This filthy cantrip persists
to-day. 	I have known the threat used and the dirty
charm employed by sorcerers. In I 6 I 7 three Guernsey
witches, Collette du Mont, her daughter Marie, and
Isebel Becquet, were tried on multiplied charges. 	The
household of James Gallienne, his wife and children

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	55
had 	been 	cursed, 	and 	many 	other 	depositions 	of
neighbours proved the accusation. 	Cattle died, mares
miscarried, cows could give no milk, sheep sickened
and fell, children and women were taken ill, men were
lamed and palsied. 	There was no end to the mischief.
Horrible black pimples broke out on the bodies of the
afflicted persons ; 	insects swarmed in their houses,
and lice in such abundance that they had to be swept
away with brooms. 	The witches were found guilty
by the Royal Court of Guernsey of having practised
the damnable art of sorcery and of having thereby
caused the deaths of many persons, of having destroyed
and injured much cattle, and of many other abominable
crimes. They confessed, and were very justly strangled
and burned at the stake.
At Bedford, about I 637, old Gammer Rose amongst
other charges was accused of making " a man to be
alwayes lowsie ". 	The matter was proved beyond
any question.
In 	1645 	a 	fearful 	witch, 	Elizabeth 	Fillet, 	of
Witherenden, was put on her trial for various misdeeds.
The wife of John 	Spink 	having made a 	slighting
remark which was overheard by Mother Fillet, their
child sickened and was suddenly covered with lice.
In 	the 	same year 	Thomas 	Monticute refused 	old
widow Thomazine Ratcliffe, of Shelley, some faggots.
He became f d of strange lice. 	A very respectable
Norwich 	woman in 	1843 made complaint before 	a
magistrate that an old hag had bewitched her by
sending her and her children a vast number of vermin.
There dwelt as lately as 1874, in a lonely hut hard
by the rugged promontory 	" La Roque du Guet ",
Caiibo 	Bay, 	Guernsey, 	a 	known 	witch 	of 	long

!16 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
continuance, who plagued the whole countryside by her
spells. A woman scrupulously clean in her person and
attire against whom the witch had a previous grudge
chanced to make use of some not very complimentary
expressions in speaking of the old hag, and instan-
taneously her clothes were covered with vermin of the
most loathsome description.
A Guernsey lady, Miss E. Le Pelley, in 1896 related
that two young fellows, still in their teens, one day
happened to chaff an old woman, when suddenly she
got furiously angry, and stooping down gathered a
handful of dust which she flung in the air, at the same
time gabbling a sentence very quickly. The boys went
home, and found they were covered with vermin. 	One
was so enraged that he took his gun, ran back to the
witch's house, and levelling it at her cried : " Now
rid me of the lice, or I will shoot you." 	The old
wretch was really frightened. 	She took 	up 	some
dust, scattered it on him, repeated some words, and
the vermin disappeared. The other youth was worried
for three days.
Mrs. Le Patourel, of St. 	Martin's, 	was told the
following by the lady to whom it happened, her own
mother-in-law, at the time of the incident Miss Mauger,
of Saints. 	Miss Mauger and her sister, who came of a
wealthy old family, went to school in England at a new
fashionable academy, where they imbibed rather grand
notions. 	On their return home, being very handsome
girls and fond of gaiety, they used to go to all the
country dances, and were much sought after as partners
by the beaux of the Island. 	But as young ladies some-
times will they held their heads pretty high, and only
cared to dance with the most select and most eligible

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	57
gentlemen. 	One evening when they were present at a
dance with a girl friend and all three happened to be
particularly smartly dressed in new frocks, some man
whom they did not know came up without any intro-
duction and asked each of them in turn to dance with
him. 	Each, however, refused rather coldly, letting it
perhaps be seen a little too plainly that he was hardly
the partner for them. 	He turned away muttering that
they would soon repent their rudeness. 	A 	minute
later one of the girls said to her sister, " Oh, Marie,
whatever is that crawling on your lace ? " 	Red with
confusion, the girl killed the insect, only to see swarms
more moving over her white satin skirt. 	The other
two girls to their horror found that they also were
alive with vermin. 	In the utmost confusion all three
hurriedly left the room, and hastened home. 	Do what
they would they were plagued for three days, when
the lice vanished as suddenly as they had appeared.
Mrs. Ltt Patourel says that in telling the story her
mother-in-law always concluded : 	" The shame of it
I can never, never forget.''
Mr. John 	de 	Garis, 	of 	Les 	Rouvets, 	comments :
" I have heard of too many instances of this power of
giving vermin being exercised to admit of doubt.
The surprising part is the removal. 	I have not heard
of a case for more than thirty years."
Dr. A. N. Syrnons, ofJersey, notes : " Several times
I have heard that the Witches could cover a person
with 	lice 	by 	magic. 	Miss 	R. 	V., 	who formerly
lived with her people at Coin Varin, says that one
of 	her 	brothers 	was 	troubled 	in 	this 	way 	by 	a
witch who lived in the cottage, now ruined, beside
Les 	Luanes 	Hill. 	He took 	a whip and threatened

58 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
to 	thrash 	the 	witch, 	whereupon 	the 	trouble 	was
removed ."
Mr. John 	L. Amy, the author of Jersey 	Folk Lore,
relates the following incident which was told him by
his mother, who had it from the widow of the man
who was bewitched. 	Jean 	L. was a farmer of some
wealth and influence in his parish of St. Lawrence, and
much respected throughout 	the whole district. 	It
happened that he had to attend at Court on a certain
Saturday to pass a 	contract 	which meant L4oo to
him, a business country folk were wont to complete
with 	considerable preparation 	and 	ceremony. 	To
visit the Royal Court on such an occasion was in
fact 	a 	gala day, 	and necessitated donning Sunday
clothes and every rustic formality. 	A few days before
the great event there came to the farm begging for
a pot of cider one Collas D., a shiftless and ill reputed
vagabond, 	to 	whom 	incidentally 	the 	farmer 	had
always refused alms. 	" Be off with you," 	cried the
goodman 	with 	some vigour 	on seeing the ragged
rascal at his gate. 	" Cider or Contract," was the reply.
" Either you give me the cider or you do not go to
the Court on Saturday." 	Jean 	L. 	laughed in the
beggar's face. 	The important morning arrived, and
spruced in his smartest toggery, swinging his black
malacca cane with the silver head jauntily as he strode
along, Maitre Jean 	set out on his way to the Court.
All was well until he had reached the top of Mont
Cochon Hill, and he had actually forgotten the threat
of Collas D. 	It felt good to be alive with a contract
for some hundred pounds in one's pocket. 	And he
was alive with a vengeance ! 	He began to twitch and
itch. 	He halted, tore off his collar and set about

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	59
scratching his neck and face. 	As he looked at his
clothes he turned sick with horror and dismay. He saw
that he was literally swarming with filthy vermin from
head to foot. No help for it. He hurried back home by
the short cut across the fields keeping in the shadow
of the hedges lest anyone should see him. 	When he
opened the door of his house the lice all vanished, not
a trace was there to be seen. But it proved far too late
to resume his journey.
In Cornwall some half a dozen years ago two men
were ill-wished with vermin. 	The spell was broken
by standing in a church porch on Sunday morning and
muttering 	to 	themselves 	as 	the 	congregation 	was
leaving : 	" We have lost our flocks, call them home."
The sterile 	witch-charm 	known 	as 	" Tying 	the
points ", or in French nouer I'aiguilette :
to starve up generation,
To strike a barrenness in men and women,
so that the sexual functions in either sex were wholly
incapacitated 	and 	a 	complete frigidity ensued was
aIways 	regarded 	with 	especial 	abhorrence 	as 	an
abomination mortally injurious to the most intimate
human relations. 	Yet Delrio remarks that in his day
it was one of the commonest as it was one of the
vilest businesses of sorcery.
Bodin adds that there were no less than fifty methods
of casting this accursed spell, which indeed 	is 	still
employed by 	witches to-day, 	as a 	modern 	French
writer, Roland 	BrEvannes, 	attests.
The bond-slave of a murderer, the witch is also a
murderer, a point that has already been touched upon,
and one scarcely requiring any further enlargement.
In Africa the ju-ju 	man will 	" hate " his enemy to

60 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
death. 	The medicine doctor puts 	ju-ju 	on 	some
person, and that person dies. 	He may fall down
suddenly ; he may waste inch by inch. 	Only because
the wizard has looked at him, has pointed towards
him, and willed him to die. 	That is all.
The German and Italian witches used to disinter
human corpses, especially the bodies of criminals who
had been hanged, to use them for the murderous
slaughter of men. 	From such horrid material they
confected charms of especial potency.
In 	the 	Navarrese 	witch-trials 	of 	1 6 1 0 Juan 	de
Echelar confessed that a candle had been used made
from the arm of an infant strangled before baptism.
The ends of the fingers were lit, and burned with a
clear flame.
The right hand of a gibbeted felon, severed at the
wrist, was employed for the ghoulish charm known as
the Hand of Glory ; the Dead Man's Candle ; or,
the Corpse Candlestick. 	The instructions to fashion
this magical taper are given at length in Les Secrets
du Petit 	Albert. 	The ghastly relic of mortality was
mummified by being placed in an earthen pot with
coarse salt, dragon-wort, black pepper, 	nitre, 	and
various spices. 	It was then bleached in the hottest
noonday sun, or baked over a fire fed with bracken
and vervain. 	Certain impious incantations accom-
panied the process. 	A candle having been moulded
from the fat of 	a 	hanged murderer together with
virgin wax and Lapland sesame the dead fingers were
twisted so as to hold this horrible taper, which burned
with a blue flame. 	Whilst this was alight all those in
the house became entranced in a hypnotic sleep, and ren-
dered incapable of word or movement. 	Housebreakers

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	61
and 	assassins would 	purchase 	the 	Hand 	of 	Glory
from witches at a high rate, and in the days when
criminals were hanged in chains by the highway it
was by no means impossible to procure the horrid
ingredients for such a charm. 	There were, indeed,
several recipes for it, and even to-day such practices
are not unknown since it is authoritatively stated that
in parts of Russia maidens have been killed in order
to obtain the human fat for the manufacture of these
necromantic candles. 	Madame de BaucC bought at
a high price a Hand of Glory and a toad from the
Parisian witch, La Voisin.
On the night of the 3rd January, 	1831, a gang of
Irish thieves broke into the house of Mr. Naper, of
Loughcrew, Co. Meath. 	They had with them a dead
man's hand with the fingers twisted round a candle.
The servants, however, were alarmed and the robbers
fled leaving the Hand of Glory behind them. 	It was
suggested that it had not been exactly prepared, in
which case the charm would certainly fail.
The witches, it must always be remembered, are
adepts in the art of poisons, and no doubt the effect
of their spells in many cases was not infrequently
aided by a noxious draught. 	The devil, or Chief
Officer of a coven, " delivers unto his Proselite, and so
to the rest, the Rules of his Art instructing them in the
manner of hurting and helping." 	Even John 	Webster
whose Displaying of 	Supposed Witchcraft ( I 677), " utterly
denied 	and 	disproved " 	" a 	Corporeal 	League 	made
betwixt 	the 	Devil 	and 	the 	Witch ", is 	bound 	to
6 6
acknowledge 	secret poysoning, we grant to be too
frequent and common, because those persons commonly
accounted 	Witches 	are 	extreamly 	malicious 	and

62 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
envious, and do secretly and by tradition learn strange
poysons, philters and receipts whereby they do much
hurt and mischief ".
Among the minor, but very active, agents concerned
in the scandals that came to a climax with the notorious
poisoning of 	Sir 	Thomas 	Overbury 	in 	1613 was
sweet father " Forman, as the Countess of Somerset
used to call him, a professed sorcerer, astrologer, and
necromancer, who vended curious philtres to the more
wanton court ladies, and having obtained a licence
from 	Cambridge 	University 	to 	practise 	medicine
almost openly trafficked in poison. 	Mrs. Anne Turner,
his daughter, who was hanged at Tyburn for her share
in the murder, was at her trial frankly saluted by Sir
Edward Coke as a bawd, a whore, a sorcerer, a witch,
a felon, and a murderer. L c
Of the same kidney was Dr. John 	Lambe, 	an
absolute witch, a sorcerer, a juggling person given over
to lewd, wicked, and diabolical courses, an invocator
and adorer of impious and wicked spirits." 	Practising
as a physician, he sold poisonous draughts of such
graduated strength that a speedy or a slow death might
be 	arranged according to his client's 	convenience.
There can be little doubt that had it not been for the
all-powerful protection of the Duke of Buckingham the
Doctor would 	have been brought to Tyburn. 	He
was so hated indeed that he dare not walk abroad in
the streets of London, save in disguise, 	One afternoon
in 1 6 2 8 he ventured to visit the Fortune Theatre in
Golden Lane to see a new play, but being recognized
on his way home, a brutal mob attacked him and with
hideous yells of 	" Kill the Duke's 	devil ! 	Kill the
wizard ! Kill the poisoner ! " they beat him to death.

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	63
The 	Marquise de Brinvilliers and 	her paramour
Sainte-Croix were continually consulting astrologers
and warlocks with regard to the efficacy of their drugs
and the right times to administer their arsenic and
lunar caustic, for there is a propriety in these things.
The gangs of witches directed by the Abbi Guibourg
and Catherine La Voisin numbered many poisoners
of the most approved and widest experience, physicians,
chemists, apothecaries, who laid claim to being artists
in their profession and were mighty proud of their
feats.
In Rome the witch Hieronyma Spara dispensed a
wonderful elixir, clear, tasteless, and limpid, which
sent those who were obstructive-an 	aged parent, a
cruel husband,-to 	their long last sleep. 	She was
hanged on 5th July, I 659. Even more famous and more
enterprising 	was 	her 	successor 	La 	Toffania, 	a
Neapolitan witch, who seems to have distributed her
drugs wellnigh all over Europe. 	By a horribly profane
sleight she was wont to label her vials Manna of St.
Nicolas of Bari ",so that they passed as the miraculous
oil which exudes from the sacred tomb of St. Nicolas,
and for reverence sake were unexamined. 	The Aqua
Toffania 	appears 	to 	have 	been 	crystallized 	arsenic
dissolved in large quantities of water with the addition
(for some unexplained reason) of the herb cymbalaria.
A 	few 	drops 	were 	generally 	poured 	into 	coffee,
chocolate, or soup, and its effects, although deadly
sure, were so slow as to be almost imperceptible.
When some victim is marked for death by the witch
there is made of the doomed person an image or
effigy of wax, clay, marl, lead, leather, wood, or almost
any material, and this being pierced with black pins,

64 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
nails, thorns, or even struck through with a knife or
dagger is burned or slowly melted before a great fire.
As the image is pricked so the victim suffers in that
part of the body ; as it is crumbled or dissolved, so he
languishes ; when it is melted away or pierced to the
heart, he expires. 	Such are the theory and practice of
this " sympathetic " or " homeopathic " magic, as it
is sometimes known. 	The image thus fashioned for
purposes of sorcery has many names : 	figurine, puppet,
moppet, doll, baby (in the obsolete sense of " doll "),
effigy, maumet (the same name as given to a familiar),
simulacrum, or even picture, since a painted canvas,
a portrait, may be 	effectually employed. 	If a lack
of 	hair, 	a 	piece 	of 	clothing, 	the 	nail-parings, 	or
some other substance intimately related to the victim
can be secured and moulded in or attached to the
poppet the charm acquires so much the more force and
propulsion. 	Sometimes a heart, most frequently the
heart of an animal, will be used instead of a figurine.
Not very many years ago some new tenants who had
taken a house in Somersetshire found hidden in the
chimney a big black velvet heart with pins thrust
through it. 	They heard that the house had belonged
to 	a 	witch. 	Other substitutes are employed. 	In
Somersetshire, again, a sorcerer will write his enemy's
name on a piece of paper and fasten this with as many
black pins as possible to an onion, which .must be put
up the chimney. 	As the onion shrivels and withers so
will the victim languish. 	An onion treated thus was
found in a cottage chimney about 1880. Not long ago
in a churchyard at Bradford, Yorks, a lemon was dis-
covered stuck full of pins. 	The Neapolitan witches
pierce a lemon, an orange, a potato, with rusty nails

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	65
or pins to cast sickness upon or to kill the person who
has offended them. 	The Sicilian strega transfixes an
egg, an orange, or a lemon to the same end.
Sometimes the malefic charm can be directed against
the witch in return, as witness an instance that came
to the notice of Lady Peirse, and which happened about
ten years ago. 	In a certain south country village in
England 	a 	local 	farmer 	whose 	cattle 	ailed 	most
mysteriously and showed every sign of having been
overlooked, whilst things in general went wrong with
him in every direction, consulted the witch-doctor, and
was told to repeat a certain rhyme last thing at night,
to nail a sheep's heart to his front door, to lock and bolt
the door, to fasten every window, to sit up alone and
whatever might happen on no account so much as to
lift the latch until morning. 	He did exactly as had
been prescribed. 	The family all went to bed, and he
commenced his lonely vigil by the kitchen fire. 	After
about half an hour there came a loud knocking at
the door, and a voice shouted : " Let me in ! Let me
in for a moment." 	The farmer, although trembling
and afraid, made no answer, and did not stir from his
place. 	After a very short interval the knocking was
repeated, and a deplorable voice in plaintive accents
begged for the door to be opened, but the farmer,
although it was all he could do not to rise and unlock
the door, remained obdurate 	as 	he thought of his
suffering beasts. 	Lastly there was heard a very feeble
knocking and a dull moaning sound. 	The farmer,
even more alarmed, stoutly kept his post until sunrise
the next morning. 	When he opened the door a near
neighbour lay stretched across 	his 	threshold, dead.
The doctor pronounced it a case of sudden heart

66 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
failure. 	Nobody could explain why the man should
have come to the farmer's house, whilst the farmer
alone of his family had heard the knocks. 	The cattle
recovered in a most extraordinary way, and all other
things too began to go smoothly and well.
Mrs. 	Carbonell knew 	a case which happened in
Devonshire in 1925. D. had a valuable mare which
died suddenly. 	The veterinary surgeon was frankly
puzzled, and could only say that it must have been
the heat. 	D., however, felt sure that the mare had been
overlooked, and riding over to the near market town,
he decided to consult the white witch. 	On entering
the wise man's house, he was greeted with : " I know
the business upon which you have come. 	Go home,
cut out the mare's heart, and fill it as full as you can
with pins, and the one who has forspoken you will
die." 	The farmer on his return did as he had been bid,
and within a very few weeks a certain neighbour, in the
flower of his age, sickened and died, nor did the doctor
give his illness any name save a decline.
The magic use of actual figurines, moulded from
some plastic material in human form, reaches back to
remotest antiquity to Egypt, to Assyria, Babylonia, and
India. 	It has prevailed among all peoples, savage and
civilized, and admits of almost infinite variants in
preparation and performance.
From ancient Egypt the magic use of wax figures
passed to Greece and thence to Rome. 	The Anglo-
Saxon Penitential 	incorrectly 	ascribed 	to 	Ecgbert,
Archbishop of York, punishes this kind of sorcery, and
provides 	for 	heavier 	penalties 	if 	the 	victim 	dies.
At the Colchester Summer Assizes of I 580 there were
many indictments for witchcraft and conjuration of

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	67
spirits. Amongst others Nicholas Johnson of Woodham
Mortimer was charged with making the portrait in
wax of 	Her 	Majesty Queen Elizabeth. 	Elizabeth
Device, the Lancashire witch, made a clay picture of
John Robinson and crumbled it away, and within a
week the man died. 	In 1900 an Italian burned a wax
figure of President McKinley, quilled with pins like
a hedgehog, on the steps of the American Embassy
in 	London. 	Image 	magic 	is 	common 	enough
to-day here in England, and in all countries of the
world.
In a sentence passed upon a knot of witches at
Avignon in 1582, A Summary of 	All the CrimGs of 	Witch,
one article runs thus : " that the Father of Lies should
have a care to delete and obliterate you from the Book
of Life you did at his direction and command with
your own hands write your names in the black book
there prepared, the roll of the wicked condemned to
eternal 	death ; 	and 	that 	he might bind you with
stouter bonds to so great a perfidy and impiety, he
branded each of you with his Mark as belonging to
him."
The Devil's Mark to which allusion is here made,
or the Witches' Mark, as it is sometimes called, was
regarded as perhaps the chief point in the identification
of a witch, it was 	the very sign and seal of Satan
upon the actual flesh of his servant and any person
who bore such a mark was considered to have been
convicted and proven beyond all manner of doubt of
being in league with and devoted to the service of the
fiend. 	This mark was said to be entirely insensible to
pain, and when pricked, however deeply, it did not
bleed. 	So Mr. John Bell, minister at Gladsmuir, in his

68 	THE PRACTICE 	OF WITCHCRAFT
tract, 	The 	Trial of 	Witchcraft; or Witchcraft Arraigned
and 	Condemned, 	published 	early 	in 	the 	eighteenth
century, explains : 	" The witch mark is sometimes
like a blew spot, or a little tate, or reid 	spots, like
flea-biting ; 	sometimes also the flesh is sunk in, and
hollow, and this is put in secret places, as among the
hair of the head, or eye-brows, within the lips, under
the arm-pits, and in the most secret parts of the body."
Robert Kirk, minister at Aberfoill, in his Secret Common-
wealth (1691) writes : " A spot that I have seen, as a
small mole, horny, and brown-coloured ; throw which
mark when a large pin was thrust (both in buttock,
nose, and rooff of the mouth), till it bowed and became
crooked, the witches both men and 	women, 	nather
felt a pain nor did bleed, nor knew the precise time
when this was doing to them, (their eyes only being
covered)."
Thus in the case of the Guernsey witches who were
convicted by the Royal Court in July, 	1617, Isebell
Le Moigne confessed one night that, when she was at
the 	Sabbath, 	the Devil marked 	her 	on the thigh.
" The mark 	thus made having been examined by
women appointed for that purpose, they certified that
they had thrust pins deep into it, and that Isebell felt
no pain therefrom, nor did any blood follow when
the pins were withdrawn."
Whilst the notorious French wizard, Louis Gaufridi,
" Lucifer's lieutenant, and Prince of all the hosts of
sorcerers from Constantinople to Paris," lay in prison
at Marseilles two physicians and two surgeons were
directed by the judges to search him for the devil's
marks. 	In their report which is very technical and
detailed they speak of having discovered three callous

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	69
marks, which when probed gave no pain, and which
from this and other signs they are bound to pronounce
not to be natural.
Inasmuch then as the discovery of the devil-mark
was regarded as one of the most convincing indications
-if 	not indeed an infallible proof-that 	the accused
was guilty, it is easy to see how the searching for, the
recognition and the probing of, such marks actually
grew to be a profession in which not a few ingenious
persons came to be recognized as experts and practical
authorities. 	In Scotland, especially, the " prickers ",
as they were called, formed a regular gild. 	They
received a good fee for every witch whom they dis-
covered, and, as might be expected, they did not fail
to reap a golden harvest. 	One of the most notorious
was John Kincaid of Tranent, who was acknowledged
a master in his craft, although he found a serious rival
in John Bain, who also showed himself a whole-hearted
enthusiast. 	About I 630 Mr. John Balfour, of Corhouse,
was feared all over the country for his exploits, and
proved so ardent a publicist that he eventually came
under the notice of the Lords of the Privy Council, who
finding that 	his 	knowledge 	" has 	only 	been 	con-
jectural " put an abrupt end to his activities. 	Yet
some twenty years later one John Dick was energetic-
ally pursuing the pricker's 	profession. 	The regular
trade of these 	" common prickers " 	came to be 	a
serious nuisance, and confessedly opened the door to
all sorts of roguery. There was a Mr. Paterson, " who
had run over the kingdom for trial of witches. . . . This
villain gained a great deal of money, having two
servants ; at last he was discovered to be a woman
disguised in man's clothes." 	In 1649 a Scotch pricker

7O 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
was called in at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, but the experi-
ment hardly proved satisfactory. 	He charged twenty
shillings for each subject, and eventually he turned
out to be a mere cheat. 	In 1662 the Lords of His
Majesty's Secret Council forbade any sort of pricking
for witchcraft save it were done by special Order in
Council, and within a very few months several prickers
were sentenced to terms of imprisonment.
The fleeting upon the water, or as it is generally
known, the " swimming " of a witch, the water-ordeal,
was popularly considered to be so supremely efficacious
a test that it was still in use, albeit wholly illegal, of
course, among rustics as late as the nineteenth century.
The witches tied with " their thumbes and great toes
. . . acrosse " and steadied by ropes-(" 	a roape, tyed
about their middles ")-were 	let down into the water,
some running stream, or a pond. If she sank the suspect
might be cleared ; if she swam her blackest guilt was
evident. For water was a holy element, it had become
instinct with life whilst the earth was yet barren and
uninhabited ; and as the witch had rejected the sacra-
mental water of Baptism, so the pure lymph would
refuse to receive her into its bosom. 	The analogy is
perfectly sound, and King James is quite correct when
he writes : 	" It appeares that God hath apoynted
(for a super-naturall signe of the monstrous impietie
of the Witches) that the water shall refuse to receive
them in her bosome, that have shaken off them the
sacred Water of Baptisme, and wilfullie refused the
benefite thereof." 	William Perkins of Cambridge, in
his 	Discourse 	of 	the 	Damned 	Art 	of 	Witchcraft,post-
humously 	published 	in 	1608, 	endeavours to 	argue
against this conclusion, by laying down that 	" The

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	7'
element out of the use of the Sacrament is no Sacra-
ment, but returnes again to his common use ", an
opinion which much commends itself to a recent writer,
who thus regards Perkins as having exploded the sacred
character and symbolism of Holy Water. 	Perkins
was no doubt a very grave and earnest author, but his
theology (as here) is often extremely faulty, and it is
because of this that the inference seems entirely to have
escaped him. 	Holy 	Water is a 	sacramental, 	and
possesses a particular efficacy of its own. 	It has, more-
over, the virtue to drive away those evil spirits whose
mysterious and baleful operations can do such harm
to man. 	Baptismal water is especially sacrosanct, for
it has been mixed with the holy chrism in solemn
rite. It is not necessary to labour these points in detail,
sufficient to remark how Perkins and his school have
mistaken and are in error in this respect.
Actually the Ordeal by Swimming was the Judgement
of God, and applied for many crimes. 	It goes back
to very early days, about the sixth or seventh century,
and it is obviously related to the belief that water (in
particular running water 	"-A 	running stream they
darena cross "-) 	will dissolve all enchantment and
magic 	glamour. 	During the seventeenth century
swimming was much favoured in England as a test
for a witch, although it was seldom countenanced by
authority. 	In 	1612 	two Bedfordshire witches were
swum in a mill-dam by Master Enger, a " gentleman
of 	worship ", whom 	they 	had 	harmed, 	and 	they
" floated like a plank ". 	In the 	same year 	three
Northamptonshire witches were swum, and could not
sink. Examples might be multiplied. In some very few
instances swimming was 	directed 	or 	at 	the 	least

72 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
permitted by the local magistracy, but Bernard in his
Guide to Grand-Jury Men insists upon the illegality of
this test, and Hopkins who certainly favoured the
process was soon forced to discontinue it.
There was living in 	1931 at the Essex village of
Good Easter, a man who in his youth had been in
trouble with the local magistrates for attempting with
his friends the trial by swimming of an old hag, who
was generally believed to be a witch. 	She was, how-
ever, rescued from their hands before they had thrown
her in the pool, and the charge brought against them
resolved itself into that of attempting to do grievous
bodily harm.
The 	Morning Post 	of 28th January, 	1780, 'has an
account of two old women of Beck's Hill 	(Bexhill),
Sussex, suspected to be witches. 	Many of the leading
inhabitants approached the parson, the lawyer, and
the mayor, requesting that these beldames should be
put to the test, 	" to try by swearing, swimming, or
weighing them if the opinion of the people was well or
ill founded." 	As it might have fared badly with the
two women if this deputation had just been scouted,
" the Clerk was dispatched for the 	Church Bible,
which the two were weighed against, and which they
out-weighed, a sure proof they were not zuitchs." 	This is
an old experiment and one that was employed from
time to time in country places, but it has never been
officially recognized and can hardly be regarded as
more than a tradition.
It has always been held that if the victim who is
overlooked can draw blood from the witch the spell
will be broken. Again and again we find in the records
that in order to obtain relief the witch has been

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	73
scratched or blooded. 	This occurs as early as 1279,
when John 	de Warham was fined 	12d. by the Leet
Court at Lynn, Norfolk, for " blood draught on Fair
Alice ", whom he had 	(it seems) wrongly suspected.
Passing down more than six centuries we may note an
experience related by Mr. Walter Britten, as happening
to a friend of his who was making a stay at Sidmouth
in the days when the modern bicycle was still some-
thing of a novelty. The visitor, an enthusiastic devotee
of the wheel, had a new machine sent down from
London, and locally became known as " the flying
devil ". 	One evening, being waylaid in a lane near
Sudbury by a number of rustics, he dismounted with
no small misgiving. 	To his surprise the leader of the
party ran a sharp pin into one of his legs chanting,
" Prickee wi' 	a pin, and draw his blood, an' ee can't
hurt ee ! " 	After which ceremony the whole company
at once appeared quite satisfied and friendly. 	This, of
course, was nothing else than the scratching of the
witch, so continually spoken of in the old trials, and
recognized by the demonologists as a powerful counter-
charm to malefic spells.
Writing from Plympton, on the 	1st March, 	1821,
Lady Callcott (then Mrs. Graham) speaks of a rich
baker in Plymouth, who some five years before had
to pay five pounds compensation to a reputed witch.
One of the baker's children being very sickly it was
concluded the poor 	little creature had 	been 	over-
looked, " and nothing but blood from the witch who
had 	overlooked it could 	cure it. 	Accordingly, the
lady of the Oven watched her opportunity ; and when
the witch next came for a loaf, she and her maid
flew on the old crone scratching her severely with long

74 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
corking pins. 	The Mayor fined 	the baker, 	but it
was considered extremely hard that a woman might
not scratch a witch who had overlooked her child."
In August, 1927, an English lady who was walking
in a wood near Travnik, in Bosnia, apparently aroused
the suspicions of some peasant women, who crying out
that 	she was 	a sorceress who would 	bewitch their
children, attacked her, 	beating her 	and scratching
her until the blood flowed. She escaped with difficulty,
and found protection in the neighbouring village.
In 1928 a West Country smallholder was convicted
of assaulting an old woman, whom he had scratched
violently with a pin. 	The defence was that she had ill-
wished him and his pig, so he had drawn blood on
her to render her spells powerless to harm him for the
future.
The black books or rolls of the witches carrying the
names of the members of the coven were kept with great
secrecy by the chief officer of the local society, or even
by the Grand Master of a wider district. 	They would
obviously have been guarded as something as precious
as life itself, seeing that they contained the damning
evidence of a full list of the witches of a province or
county, and in addition thereto seems to have been
added a number of magic formulae, 	spells, 	charms,
and probably, from time to time, a record of the
doings of the various witches. 	The signing of such a
book is continually referred to in the New England
trials. 	So when Deliverance Hobbs had made a clean
breast of her sorceries, 	" She now testifi'd 	that this
Bishop [Bridget Bishop condemned and executed as a
long-continued witch] tempted her to sign the Book
again, and to deny what she had confess'd." 	The

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	75
enemies of 	the 	notorious 	Matthew Hopkins 	made
great capital out of the story that by some sleight of
sorcery he had got hold of one of these Devil's memo-
randum-books, whence he copied a list of witches, and
this enabled him to be so infallible in his scent.
An old Yarmouth witch in 1645 described how one
night she heard a knock at her door, and peeping from
her window she saw in the moonlight a tall, black
man, 	whom she admitted. 	After some parley he
promised to help her under certain conditions, and
taking a little penknife he scratched her hand so that
the blood flowed, with which she wrote her name in
his book, and he guided her fingers.
Anne Bodenham, sometime servant to the notorious
warlock, Dr. John 	Lambe, was executed at Salisbury
when 80 years old. 	She had many books of spells,
and especially a red one " written half over with blood,
being the names of witches that had listed themselves
under the Devil's command ". 	This, however, could
not be recovered as it had been sent for safe keeping
to a wizard named Withers, who lived near Romsey,
Hants, and who absconded.
There is a somewhat vague story, no dates being
given, that a Devil's 	book was carried 	off by 	Mr.
Williamson of 	Cardrona 	(Peebles), who filched it
from the witches whilst they were dancing on Minch-
moor. 	But the whole coven at once gave chase, and
he was glad to abandon it and escape alive.
Sometimes the catalogue of witches was inscribed
on a separate parchment, and the book only used to
write down charms and spells. 	Such a volume was the
Red Book of Appin known to have actually been in
existence a hundred years ago. 	Tradition said that it

76 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
was stolen from the Devil by a trick. 	It was in manu-
script, and contained a large number of magic runes
and incantations for the cure of cattle diseases, the
increase of flocks, the fertility of fields. This document,
which must be of immense importance and interest,
when last heard of was (I believe) in the possession of
the now extinct Stewarts of Invernahayle. This strange
volume, so the story ran, conferred dark powers on the
owner, who knew what inquiry would be made even
before the question was poised ; and the tome was so
confected with occult arts that he who read it must
wear a circlet of iron around his brow as he turned
those mystic pages.
It is a strange and not very edifying chance which
has popularly attached the names of great Popes and
Saints to books of spells and grimoires, and some
authors such as Father Delrio, Pierre Le Loyer, and
Gabriel 	NaudC, 	the 	learned 	librarian 	of 	Cardinal
Richelieu and Cardinal Mazarin, have been at the
pains to show how absurd and indeed scandalous such
attributions are. 	There is no need 	to labour the
point, for of course nobody imagines that Honorius I11
composed an infernal grimoire or that St. Albert the
Great is the author of a manual giving directions how
to prepare cabbalistic talismans and a ring conferring
invisibility, any more than we believe (as was once
seriously asserted) that Abel wrote a treatise on judicial
astrology, which he enclosed in a rock where after the
Deluge it was discovered and published by the patriarch
Noah.
The 	history 	with 	the 	ancillary 	bibliography 	of
grimoires and books of spells 	is 	immense and im-
mensely complicated, nor even if it were desirable to

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	77
treat so dangerous a subject would it be possible to
discuss it save at very considerable length. 	In order
to illustrate the witches' library I will do no more then
than mention a very few works which are so notorious
that no purpose could be served by ignoring them,
whilst no harm can come from so slight and guarded
a notice.
Among the oldest and most terrible of the grimoires
is the Sepher Toldos Jeschu, 	a Syro-chaldaic work, whose
pages are happily sealed save to the very few. 	A book
of conjurations, Ars Notaria, was once printed under the
name of St. Jerome. 	Owing to a confusion between
St. Cyprian, Bishop of Carthage, and St. Cyprian of
Antioch the coverted sorcerer, who 	was 	martyred
fifty years later, a number of mediaeval spells have been
ascribed 	to 	the 	former. 	Thus in 	Denmark 	and
Scandinavia among the witches to-day almost any
grimoire is dubbed the Book of 	Cyprianw. 	St. Ubald,
Bishop of Gubbio in the twelfth century, who was
especially famous for his powers in casting out evil
spirits, 	is 	named on the title-page of a theurgical
treatise which cannot be earlier than four centuries
after his death. In France in the days of the Valois they
were 	selling 	all 	sorts 	of 	alchemical 	and 	magical
opuscules as being from the pen of St. Thomas Aquinas,
upon whose venerable preceptor, St. Albert the Great,
have been fathered perhaps the most famous, or most
infamous, 	of 	all 	printed 	grimoires, 	Les 	admirables
Secrets du Grand Albert, and the collection known by the
running title Le Petit Albmt, which two are the most
extensively employed, and in some ways 	the 	most
mischievous, grimoires to-day. 	It must be borne in
mind that the numerous editions and reprints, both of

78 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
Le Grand Albert and Lc Petit Albert, vary very widely, so
much so, in fact, that a modern copy may be an entirely
different book from an eighteenth century duodecimo
carrying either name, whilst a third collection in its
turn will present something quite new. 	Thus the 1668
sextodecimo, printed at Lyons, has charts of necro-
mantic figures, talismans and pentacles, which are
to be found in no other issue. 	(There is a facsimile,
made about thirty years ago.) Add to this that for the
most part the two books were clandestinely given to
the Press, 	often without printer's 	name, the place
incorrectly stated, a fudge imprint in fine, and it will
be seen how perplexed the whole story is. 	Some
editions are comparatively harmless ; silly maybe, and
even superstitious ; others have deadly and dangerous
pages.
The Grand Albert 	(as we know it) was possibly first
printed about the middle of the sixteenth century, but
the eighteenth century editions (of the last rarity) are
considered the most complete. 	The Petit Albert 	was
joined with the Grand Albert in one volume and edited
(1885) by 	a 	well-known 	French 	occultist, 	Marius
Decrespe. 	This is said to be the issue most prized by
adepts to-day. 	Decrespe emphatically discredits the
opinions of those who suggest that the dual work
originated in any sense with St. Albert the Great, or
was compiled by a student of the fifteenth century
from an unedited manuscript of the learned Dominican
doctor. 	It is almost certain that the two works as we
now have them were an amalgamation of the dis-
coveries of several individuals, and that they appeared
at 	Lyons 	not 	earlier 	than 	the 	sixteenth 	century.
Stanislas de Guaita drew attention to the fact that in

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	79
spite of the many reprints both the 	Grand and the
Petit Albert are very uncommon books.
In the Channel Islands the Grand Albert is known as
the " Witches' Bible ", and local dialect terms it Le
Grand Milt!. 	The Petit Albert is Le Petit Milk, the word
Mklk signifying nothing more than " book ". 	Together
they are often referred to as Albim, and only the sorcerer
dare keep such " bad books ". 	There have been many
cases of the two volumes appearing in various libraries
which were being catalogued after the owner's decease,
and such an accident is always regarded as throwing a
strange light upon the character and pursuits of the
defunct. The old wives say that once a man has owned
the Grand Albert he cannot rid himself of it, do what he
will. 	The book invariably returns to its place on the
shelf, even if it be cast into a fire, thrown away at sea,
torn to pieces and scattered to the winds. 	The only
thing to do is to inter it in a grave, and read the burial
service over the place, or else to get a priest to drench
the accursed thing with holy water and burn it with
litany and prayer.
In Jamaica 	when Monteul Edmond was arrested
for the murder of Rupert Mapp, a boy of I 2 years old,
for purposes of obeah it was found that the body had
been strangely mutilated and a search of ihe prisoner's
person 	discovered 	a 	number 	of 	magical 	formula
" copied from a work entitled Petit AZbnt the pretended
author of which is claimed to be a monkish occultist
of the Middle Ages ".
T h 	Daily 	Gleaner, 	Kingston, Jamaica, 	on 	30th
January, 	1934, among the police news reported that
at the Sandy Bay Court, Leonard Weakley, of Cold
Spring, was sentenced to six months' imprisonment for

80 	THE PRACTICE 	OF WITCHCRAFT
practising the black art. 	In his house were found the
following books : 	The Sixth and Seventh Books o f Moses ;
Albertus Magnus, or the White and Black Arts for 	Men and
Beasts ; The Great Book of Black 	Magic ; The Book of
Magical Art ; Hindoo Magic and Indian Occultism.
It was stated during the John 	H. 	Blymyer trial
(1928) at 	York, 	York 	County, 	Pennsylvania, that
the principal 	" witchcraft guises " employed by the
sorcerers are : 	The Sixth and Seventh Books of the
Magical Spirit ; The Art of Moses, popularly known
as The Black Art Bible ; Heaven's Letter (Himmels-
brief) ; and The Long-lost Friend, which contains the
necromantic 	rituals 	and 	the creed of pow-wowism.
The Art 	of 	Moses 	is 	a 	translation, or adaptation of
the 	Magia 	divino-mosaica . . . cum 	nigromantia 	of 	the
sixteenth century. 	All these grimoires are very rare
and the possession of one or two confers a certain
distinction upon the witch.
The Enchiridion of Pope Leo 111, fabled to have been
presented 	by 	that 	great 	Pontiff 	to 	the 	Emperor
Charlemagne in the year 	800 is, of course, purely
apocryphal. 	There is an early edition of I 584, and the
Mainz edition of 1633 has woodcuts in black and red,
but the 16mo edition " chez le Pire Angelo de Rimini "
(Paris, I 847), presents ten coloured plates of pentacles,
magic circles, seals engraved with words of power, and
other curious matter, such as counter-spells to divert
malefic enchantments. Upon the title-page is a triangle
in a double circle with Hebrew characters, 	Tsabaoth
Alchim, etc., inscribed in the midst.
The grimoires need not for their contents detain
us. 	The Grimoire of Pope Honorius is said to be found in
manuscript at least as early as the thirteenth century.

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	81
It was printed at Rome in 1 6 2 9 , and has several times
been reissued. 	The edition of 1670 has many magical
and cabbalistic figures, for this volume of witchcraft
is chiefly concerned with the evocation of demons.
The Grand Grimoire and the Grimorium Verum are both
to a large extent derived from the famous Clauicula
Salomonis, The K y of Solomon the King, sometimes known
as the Book of the Pentacles. 	The legend of a manual of
black magic written by Solomon and confided to his
son Rehoboam (Roboam) is very ancient. Mr. S. L. M.
Mathers, who translated 	The Key of Solomon the King
in 1889, says : " I see no reason to doubt the tradition
which 	assigns 	the 	authorship of 	the 	Key 	to 	King
Solomon." 	This view, however, cannot be accepted
without 	very 	considerable 	qualification, 	for 	it 	is
abundantly evident that the Key, in any form as we
now have it, must have been altered and amplified
(and possibly in some particulars retrenched) by those
through whose hands it passed. 	It is safer to allow that
the Key is substantially based upon immemorial tradi-
tion, much of which may go back to the time of
Solomon, but that it has suffered various modifica-
tions in the course of the centuries without indeed
affecting its essential character and design.
It is true that 	The Key of Solomon t h King has been
claimed to be a work of white magic, but since (to
mention no further examples) it teaches how to describe
a pentacle causing ruin, utter destruction, and death,
whilst another pentacle is productive of earthquakes
and great storms, this pretence-for 	it is plainly nothing
more--cannot be maintained. 	For obvious reasons the
malefic nature of a grimoire would often have been
dissembled. 	Moreover the manuscript grimoires are

82 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
in general far more detailed and far more terrible than
the printed volumes, bad 	enough in all conscience
though the latter may be. 	The sorcerer dare not
confide the darker secrets of his evil craft, the more
potent and perilous spells to what is after all-however
limited the number of copies-a 	certain method of
publication. The compositors might be heavily bribed,
nay, they might even themselves be members of the
Satanic fraternity, but there would always remain the
chance that by some accident a copy of a printed book
might fall into hostile hands and the mine be sprung.
In past centuries this must have been an even more
imminent risk than to-day. 	Very often in the printed
manuals a slight difference has been deliberately made
in an 	exorcism, 	some 	little 	variant 	occurs 	in 	a
ceremonial, lest 	the 	horrid 	science should 	be 	too
plainly betrayed to the uninitiated and the intruder.
The adept who is using the book will appreciate this
policy of reticence and heed the signs of caution ;
from his own training and the oral lessons he has
received he can correct such divergences, and that is
the reason why these mystic manuals are so often
scored with manuscript emendations and so copiously
annotated in their broad margins.
It has been said that wellnigh every witch of long
continuance or standing possessed 	The Key of 	Solomon
the Xing, and generally in a manuscript written out by
himself. The advantage of this is obvious, for he could
add any number of incantations and charms which he
had been taught by word of mouth. 	In the time of
Louis XIV, Duprat, a Parisian schoolmaster who was
not unconnected with the Guibourg-La Voisin gang,
enjoyed 	a 	very 	pretty 	living 	by 	transcribing 	and

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	83
writing out grimoires. 	In the eighteenth century the
Marquis de Paulmy, a deep student of occultism, made
a large collection of manuscript grimoires, which are
now preserved in the 	Biblioth&que de 	1'Arsenal 	at
Paris. 	One of the most complete of these is entitled
The Great Secret, or the Xcy of 	Solomon th King and the
Ancient Grimoire, being, as indeed is indicated by the
very name, a work combining the Clauicula with the
Grimoire of Pope Honorius. 	Although actually it does not
present a large number of figures and charts of circles
it does describe many ceremonies and charms not to
be found elsewhere. 	Dating from the early part of
the eighteenth century, it is written in a very legible
and elegant hand, and was evidently penned with the
greatest 	care throughout. 	A note initialed by the
Marquis de Paulmy says that no Hebrew manuscript
of 	The Key of 	Solomon has ever been traced. 	More-
over Greek manuscripts are of the last rarity. 	Indeed
only one was certainly known, and that reposed in the
library of Charles Albert of Bavaria. 	Latin versions
were 	not 	altogether 	infrequent. 	The 	manuscript
actually is in French. 	It commences with a Preface,
which does not occur in any other copy, wherein
Solomon confides his KCJJto his son Rehoboam, in
accordance with the old tradition. The book is supposed
to have been found in Solomon's tomb, and the ivory
coffer in which it was contained hence came into the
possession of a Babylonian mage, who gave it to the
world's philosophers. 	Leaving all legends aside, there
is at least one salutary cautel added to the foreword.
The author or transcriber, whoever he may be, is very
insistent in his word of warning : " I conjure and I
beseech any man into whose hands this manuscript

84 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
may fall, I implore him by all that is holy, by his desire
for good success in all his business and doings, that he
shall never turn this book to any common use, that he
shall neither publish it abroad, nor generally disclose
the secrets hereof, nor 	translate it into the vulgar
tongue, but to show it only to and to suffer it only
to be seen by men who have understanding and who
are well-tried and knowing in these rare secrets."
The earlier chapters of the 	K ~ Jdescribe in detail
those preliminary ceremonies and rituals which are
necessary for the successful invocation of spirits, a
thing not to be embarked upon lightly or without due
preparation and care. 	The Key will have it that the
spirits who shall appear in these circumstances are
benign influences, and but rarely evil, and these latter
should 	be 	approached 	most 	circumspectly. 	The
Christian Faith admits no such distinctions. 	However
kindly and plausible they may seem to be we know that
all such conjured spirits are demons of the pit.
As Mr. A. E. Waite has justly observed : 	" Much
that passed current in the west as White 	(i.e. per-
missible) Magic was only a disguised goeticism, and
many of the resplendent angels invoked with divine
rites reveal their cloven hoofs. 	I t is not too much to
say that a large majority of past psychological experi-
ments 	were 	conducted 	to 	establish 	communication
with demons, and that for unlawful purposes. 	The
popular conceptions concerning the diabolical spheres,
which have all been accredited by magic, may have
been 	gross 	exaggerations of 	fact 	concerning 	rudi-
mentary 	and 	perverse intelligences, but 	the 	wilful
viciousness 	of 	the 	communicants 	is 	substantially
untouched thereby."

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	85
Full details of the vestments which must be donned
by the charmer are supplied, and he should even wear
a particular kind of buskin or shoe ; he must furnish
himself with such accessories as a keen knife or whinger ;
a long needle or cobbler's awl ; a ring ; a wand ; fire ;
holy water ; lights ; certain sweet perfumes ; virgin
parchment and a quill never yet used ; ink, and a
phial of blood wherewith to write ; which things are
absolutely indispensable for the operation since to
summon a 	familiar spirit is 	no 	light 	and 	simple
business as idle and silly meddling folk might suppose.
The manuscript gives an elaborate plan of the magic
circle which is to be found in every manual of sorcery
and in which unless he will risk the most imminent peril,
even death itself, the experimenter must take his stand.
This detail is emphasized in all grimoires, and 	the
manuscript admonishes : 	" Note well that the mage
who invokes the spirits must take his place within the
circle, nor let him stir thence." 	The circle which was
to measure nine feet in diameter, must be traced with
the sharp point of the consecrated knife, and 	(the
rubrics direct) : 	" having drawn this circle describe
four Pentacles whereabouts are to be written the
Holy Names of God, and without this circle describe
yet another circle which shall be bounded by a square.
Grave all these with thy knife's point."
Actually both Greek and Hebrew characters are
traced about the circle and pentacles. Alpha, Omega,
can be clearly distinguished ; as well as the mystic
word Agla, which was used by the rabbis as signiQing
Aieth 	Gad01 Leolam 	Adomi, 	Adonai 	(God Almighty)
endureth throughout a l l ages. 	There are also written
several of the seventy and two Names of God.

86 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
However, in different editions and manuscripts of
The Key of 	Solomon the circle is varied, and in one
ceremony 	the 	hierophant 	is 	required 	to 	have 	an
attendance of four acolytes. 	Five circles are then
traced, the fist being greater than the rest, in which
the master takes his position. 	The disciples stand
appropriately in 	the 	smaller circles. 	All must 	be
clothed in ephods of stainless white linen, and the
master whilst he draws the circles recites the following
psalms : 11, (Why do the heathen rage,) ; LIV, (Save,
me, 0 God, by Thy Name) ; CXII, (Praise ye the
Lord) ; LXVII, (God be merciful unto us) ; XLVII,
(0 clap your hands, all ye people) ; 	and LXVIII,
(Let God arise . . .). 	A number of other circles and
pentacles 	having 	been 	described, 	the 	Four 	Great
Names of God must be written around and about, to
wit in the small circles, Adonai, El, Agla, and Jah, and
in the larger circle Eloha, Ehie, Elijon, and the mystic
Tetragrammaton, that is the Divine Name, the Name
of Yahweh, which no man 	may pronounce 	(saith
Rabbi Abba Shaul) and live, the separated, the hidden
and mysterious Name, inscribed here in such manner
as may reverently and fearfully be spoken.
Another manuscript of the Key of 	Solmnon, now in
the Bibliothhque de l'Arsena1, 	The 	True and On[y K g
of 	King Solomon, said to be translated from the Hebrew
in the eighteenth century, instructs the experimenter
to draw his circle in quite a different fashion. 	Similar
names, however, are to be written, the central mono-
gram being KIS, which stands for Kadosh Ieue Sabaoth,
Holy Lord of Hosts.
Although as yet unpublished, there is preserved in a
private English collection a manuscript translation of

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	87
the 	Clavicula 	Salomonis 	by 	Frederick 	Hockley, 	an
astrologer and occultist who died about the middle
of the last century. 	It is entitled " Solomon's Key, by
Frederick Hockley, 1828". Pasted inside the cover is
a paper carrying the following : " Magia de Profundis,
seu Clavicula Salomonis Regis, the Key of Solomon
the King, or a Complete System of Profound Magical
Science with a great number of coloured drawings of
the Characters of the Spirits Seals, Pentacles, etc.,
elegant in brown calf gilt leaves." 	At the beginning
we have : 	" Key of Solomon in Four books. 	These
books were found in the Chaldee and Hebrew tongue
by a Jewish Rabbi at Jerusalem 	& by him translated
into Greek & from thence into Latin and transcribed
by Fredk Hockley the first day of Marche 1828."
The ~ i b l i o t h ~ u e .	de lYArsenalhas manuscripts of
a yet more profoundly dangerous kind than even the
more extreme examples of the group which conveniently
goes under the name of The Kejy of Solomon. 	Thus Tlu
True and Only Xey, to which reference has already been
made, provides a curious rose-form pentacle expressly
to invoke the demons of the pit. 	The Great Conjura-
tion contained in another manuscript is full of horrible
impiety, and may justly be styled the Dark Secret of
Secrets. 	The 	Evocation 	of 	the 	Seven 	Planetary 	Spirits
prescribes that certain substances, chiefly storax and
benjamin are to be burned in a new censer, and I
remember 	J. 	K. 	Huysmans 	saying 	how 	a 	devil-
worshipper had once told him that the fume of these
two was " agreeable to Satan our master ".
The Conjuration of Uriel and the Seraphim has the most
elaborate and reticulated 	plans and pentacles, and
among other spirits honour is paid to Alithael, Cassiel,

88 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
Sachiel, and Samael. 	The angel St. Uriel " Regent
of the Sun "
The sharpest sighted Spirit of all in Heav'n,
as Milton terms him, is mentioned in the Fourth Book
of Esdras, and other ancient writings, but the names
Cassiel and others too plain betray the cloven hoof.
In 	Francis 	Barrett's 	The 	Magus ; 	or, 	Celestial
Intelligewer, 1801,is given a specimen of the Book of
Spirits, being the Conjuration of Saturday in cere-
monial magic ; the Ruler, Cassiel. 	Here then we are
in the realms of demonism undisguised.
Samael is Satan, the arch-fiend, as Collin de Plancy
explicitly states, whilst Stanislas de Guaita says that
Samael is opposed to and fought with the Archangel,
Saint Michael.
Another manuscript, entitled Zekerboni, was written
by Pietro Mora, who describes himself as an " occult
philosopher ". 	During the Great Plague which so
fearfully ravaged Milan in 	1630 there was dwelling
in an obscure quarter Pietro Mora, a mysterious and
formidable figure, 	who 	had 	long 	been 	popularly
accused as a vendor of poisons and a witch. 	A surprise
visit searched his house, but the 	sbirri could trace
nothing extraordinary or incriminating until almost
by chance there was forced a secret panel masquing
the entrance to cellars of prodigious extent, and in
these vaults 	were 	discovered 	not 	only the 	horrid
paraphernalia 	of sorcery, magic robes and 	wands,
lamps, swords, tripods, thuribles, braziers, curiously
graven shew-stones and crystals, together with a whole
library of grimoires and Ephesian runes, but also a
vast number of sealed jars and carefully labelled phials
containing liquids and chemical preparations, which

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	89
upon being analysed by the physicians were pronounced
to be virus and poisons of the most deadly kind. 	Mora
confessed that he was the leader of a coven of sorcerers,
who had leagued themselves to spread the scourge and
destroy the entire city. 	This they did by smearing the
handles of doors and gates with a certain lethal oint-
ment. 	They poisoned 	the 	springs of water, 	the
fountains in the squares, and even the benitiers in the
church porches. 	They distributed under the guise of
charity infected clothing and foul linen from the beds
of those who had 	died 	of 	the disease among 	the
hospitals and the crowded warrens of the poor so that
the pestilence was fearfully increased. The whole knot
were apprehended 	and -being convicted upon most
plain and detailed evidence, they paid the extreme
penalty of the law. 	The very house of Mora, as a
criminal of especial atrocity, was razed to the ground,
and a column erected on the spot with an inscription
to commemorate his guilt.
There can be little question that Pietro Mora of
Milan was 	the 	author or transcriber of 	Zekerboni,
although it does not necessarily follow that the manu-
script which has been preserved is his original. 	It may
be a copy, and indeed it seems to be in a later hand.
A circumstance which makes the identification more
probable is that Zekerbdni introduces into many of the
spells certain terms and expressions borrowed from
alchemy, and we know that Mora long sought the
elixir and the philosopher's stone.
<ekerboni 	has a drawing of the " Great Pentacle "
where four circles enclose a mesh of cryptic designs,
crossing and recrossing, and scattered 	with 	Hebrew
and Greek letters punctuated by curious sigils and

go 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
points. 	The ceremony commences thus : 	" After the
Master is come with his disciples to the appointed
place of evocation he shall strike fire, and he shall
exorcize the new 	fire wherewith he shall light the
magic candle. This must be set in the lanthorn which
must be held by one of the disciples so that the Master
may most conveniently read the conjurations. Another
disciple shall hold him ready with paper, a pen and
the ink ; a third disciple shall carry the consecrated
sword with naked blade. 	The Master shall light the
charcoal for the censing and the fumigations. When he
hath 	taken 	his stand within the circle, holding 	a
lighted taper in his left hand, he shall forthwith begin
the conjuration-." 	The formula which, it is recom-
mended, shall be very legibly inscribed upon a fair
parchment without blot or erasure differs in the various
manuals. 	Each have certain phrases in common. The
Holy Name of God is called upon, and most spells
require the demon to manifest himself " in a pleasing
form, without any horror of shape or size, without any
loud or thunderous noise or alarum, without seeking
to harm him who summons thee, and without hurting
any who are of his company ".
When the spirit appears the magician must impose
his commands upon him, and then give him licence
to depart. The dismissal of the spirit is a very essential
detail in the ceremony, for unless the demon is sent
away it is possible that 	he may linger and great
mischief may ensue. 	One form 	of 	concluding the
rite is : 	" Depart then, gracious and kindly spirit,
return in peace unto thy dwelling-place and unto thine
own habitation, but yet do thou hold thyself ready to
attend and appear before me whensoever I call upon

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	9'
thee and summon thee in the name of the Great Alpha,
the Lord. 	Amen. Amen. Amen." 	It will be noticed
how cunningly fair-spoken and even pious phrases are
employed to masque the impiety of this horrid business.
Occasionally a manuscript grimoire will appear in
the sale rooms. 	In April, 1934, part of the collection
of M. Lionel Hauser was put up to auction at Sotheby's.
There were many items of exceptional interest. 	A
Treatise of Ceremonial Magic, written on vellum in
cypher in French, circa 1750, which had belonged to
and been used by the Comte de St. Germain, fetched
,$42 	IOS., 	whilst 	a 	nineteenth 	century 	manuscript
collection 	of 	spells, 	conjurations, 	and 	exorcisms,
realized E I o.
In their great 	Catalogue of Medicine, 	Alchemy,
Astrology, published in 1929 (No. 520)~Messrs. Maggs,
the 	well-known 	London 	booksellers, 	included 	" A
Manuscript Book of Black Magic written in Shake-
speare's England ", which was further very accurately
described 	as 	" An 	Elizabethan 	Devil-worshipper's
Prayer-Book ". 	The date assigned is circa 	1600, but
there seems to be no clue to the identity of the compiler
of the manuscript, which is written on twenty-three
leaves of vellum and illustrated with thirteen crudely
drawn but very powerful drawings, some of which are
coloured, of the demon king Vercan, who is pictured
under various forms. There are also six other drawings
of demons. 	All of these have their several invocations
on the opposite page, inscribed in Latin. 	The spirits
to be summoned or exorcised are : Vercan, Maymon,
Suth, 	Samax, 	Sarabotres, 	Mediac 	or 	Modiac, and
Arcan. 	King Vercan, who is regarded as the most
powerful of the demons, is called upon in thirteen

g2 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
prayers. He is shown as a kind of semi-human monster
with a fearfully grotesque human face, horned, having
a hairy body, and the feet of a bird of prey. 	Twice
he appears with three heads, and once he is riding a
bear. 	It should be remarked that the invocator is
always surrounded by a magic circle, for indeed as
a 	later enchanter has it, 	" the 	circles 	are 	certain
fortresses," and no manifestation has power to break
through these boundaries, although often the spirits
will endeavour to tempt or force the operator out of
the circle.
The 	other 	demons 	of 	the 	grimoire are : 	King
Maymon, who appears as a black familiar with two
bird-heads, and two human heads at his knees. 	He
rides upon a dragon, and is linked with the planet
Saturn. 	King Suth is brown. 	Wearing a diadem and
flourishing a great sword, he bestrides a stag, and is
companioned with Jupiter. 	King Samax is antlered,
and rides a kind of panther. 	He is linked with Mars.
King Sarabotres is green. He rides a roe, and wields a
sceptre. 	His planet is Venus. 	King 	Mediac 	(or
Modiac) has huge horns. 	Clad in red mail, he rides
a bear, and is linked with Mercury. 	King Arcan is a
black demon with flaming eyes and grinning fangs.
He is hunting with bow and arrows on the back of a
roebuck. 	His planet is the Moon.
It 	very 	infrequently happens 	that 	there 	is 	any
mention of a grimoire in a contemporary trial. 	John
Walsh, of Netherbury, Dorset, possessed a book left
him by his late master, which had great circles in it,
wherein he would set two wax candles and a cross of
virgin wax, to raise the familiar spirit of whom he
would then ask for anything stolen. 	When his book

THE DEMON KING MAYMON


MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	93
was taken from him he could no longer summon a
familiar. 	Rebecca West, an Essex witch, met with
some other witches by appointment at the house of
Elizabeth Clarke, where they all spent some time
praying to their familiars, and afterwards some read
in a book belonging to Elizabeth, whereupon the said
familiars did appear.
A Magic book, which formerly belonged to Dr. John
Caius, the famous Cambridge scholar, is preserved in
the British Museum.
Dr. John 	Harries ( I 785-1 83g), a celebrated Welsh
physician and seer who dwelt at 	CGrt-y-Cadno, 	a
hamlet in remotest Carmarthenshire, but who was
resorted 	to 	by 	the whole 	countryside, possessed 	a
great Book of Magic which none but the wizard him-
self might read with impunity. 	The Book, indeed,
was always kept locked, because (as the thaumaturge
was wont to say) if any ignorant person who knew not
the mystic mantra were to turn its pages he might
let loose unreined influences ready to destroy him.
Many wonderful stories are told of Harries, and there
seems no reason to doubt that he was an occultist
of extraordinary power. 	He openly avowed that his
knowledge of future and distant things was imparted
to him by familiar spirits, and his son Henry, who
succeeded him, inherited his father's mysterious gifts.
Henry died 	in 	1849. 	He specialized in astrology,
having in his youth been apprenticed to the well-
known astrologer Raphael of London. 	Some said
that the notorious Book was actually not a book at all,
but a number of papers kept in an iron-bound box,
which the doctor regarded 	as of the utmost value.
So perhaps it was a manuscript grimoire. 	One story

94 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
went that many years after the death of the 	Welsh
wizard and his sons, the book and a magic crystal
were 	bought 	from 	his 	descendants 	by 	a 	London
barrister on a walking tour, who having heard of the
fame of Harries visited the village. 	The family parted
with the Book and the crystal at a price, but nobody
in the house dare touch them or would lend a hand
in their removal.
There is to-day 	(1933) a wise man dwelling near
Llangwrig, Montgomeryshire, who is famous through-
out all Wales. 	From near and far people come for
his help. 	He breaks the spells of those bad folk " who
have power ", that is to say witches. 	In a rosewood
box he keeps two books, an almanac and another,
whereby he can divine and cast a horoscope or map
out the planets for his clients.
Upon the black roll of magicians stands no more
notorious name than that of Cornelius Agrippa, and
there seems little doubt that this terrible accusation is
in great part due to his youthful treatise, the Three
Books 	of 	Occult Philosophy. 	Even 	Professor 	Henry
Morley when writing his Lifc of 	Henv Cornelius Agrippa
von Nettesheim, Doctor and Knight, added on the title-
page " Commonly known as a Magician ". 	Composed
in 1510, not even the First Book was printed until one
and twenty years later, and when after about another
twelvemonth it was announced that the whole work
was in the press at Cologne, Conrad Collin, a learned
Dominican of Ulm, very justly caused the book to be
thoroughly examined by the theologians before it was
given to the public. 	So far from being an obscurantist
Collin was the most liberal of scholars, and there was
no 	persecution 	or 	oppression. 	Satisfied 	that 	it

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	95
contained no heresies, he gave his formal consent to the
issue of the work. 	" Suffer it to be printed, if they
wish," 	he says in an extant letter. 	Since the Occult
Philosophy has been analysed in some detail by Morley
it will suffice to say here that the work is a commixture
of Neoplatonism and the Cabbala. 	The last book
has a long chapter on demons, and there is a good
deal of angelology with some curious matters that skate
on very thin ice. 	Indeed these Three Books of 	Occult
Philosophy, or rather of Magic, for Agrippa himself
confessed that his title was little more than a subterfuge,
L C alone constitute him 	a 	conjurer "-the 	phrase 	is
Morley's.
It is all the more unfortunate that after Agrippa's
death there should have appeared an 	abominably
superstitious and profane Fourth Book of the Occult
Philosophy, whilst in the same volume was printed a
fitting companion, the Elements of 	Magic by Peter of
Abano, that " vilest of vile books ",to which reference
has already been made. 	It is significant that those
responsible for seeing these grimoires through the press
did not dare to give the place or the printer's name on
the title-page.
In spite of his virtuous and emphatic protestations
it is impossible to regard Francis Barrett's 	T h Magus;
or, 	Celestial 	Intelligcnc~ as 	anything 	other 	than 	a
particularly 	elaborate 	and 	complete 	grimoire.
Published 	in 	1801 by 	a 	well-known 	firm, James
Lackington, Allen and 	Co., 	at the " Temple of the
Muses ",Finsbury Square, T h Magus, a fine quarto, is
illustrated with a number of detailed designs of magic
circles and 	pentades, 	and also with several striking
coloured plates, the Powers of 	Evil, 	being heads of

g6 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
Demons, Astaroth, Abaddon, 	Mammon, and 	Vessels
of 	Wrath, 	Theutus, 	Asmodeus, 	and 	the 	Incubus.
Barrett not only sketched the heads himself with great
care, but he supplies a very ample account of the
familiar shapes and forms in which the spirits manifest
themselves, " likewise the whole perfection of magical
ceremonies is here 	described 	syllable 	by 	syllable."
" The Construction and Composition of all Sorts of
Magic Seals, Images, Rings, Glasses, etc.," 	may be
found exhibited in these pages. 	The author, who lived
at gg Norton Street, Marylebone, in an advertisement
invites those desiring to delve further into these curious
matters to join his school " which will consist of no
greater number than Twelve Students ", an extremely
significant 	circumstance. 	The 	manuscript 	of 	The
Magus, 	which 	is preserved in 	a 	private 	collection,
enlarges 	upon 	certain 	particulars 	not 	altogether
desirable 	to 	print, 	and Barrett 	stands 	forth 	as 	a
magician self-confessed.
The rough woodcuts which embellish such manuals
of sorcery as Le Dragon rouge, La Poule Noire, and Le
Dragon Noir have little importance. 	None the less both
Le Dragon rouge and La Poule Noire, which first appeared
in print about 	1800, have 	been 	reissued again and
again, and are yet extensively consulted and employed.
They are grimoires of the worst type, and even furnish
necromantic evocations.
During the Helsingfors Satanist scandals of 	1931,
when it was discovered that a number of graves had
been desecrated and bodies mutilated, upon the arrest
of 	the 	cemetery 	caretaker, 	Sarrenheimo, 	and 	the
search of his house it was found that he possessed a
library of books dealing with the practice of the black

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	97
art, and one manual in particular (said to have been
printed in England) advised the use of human remains
in confecting certain foul charms.
There are in use by witches to-day volumes simply
entitled 	Magick, 	which give the full ritual 	for the
celebration of Black 	Masses, with diabolic litanies,
and 	other infernal ceremonies including the blood
sacrifices on the altar. 	A Gnostic Mass is described,
and 	one 	rubric 	runs, 	" the 	blood 	sacrifice is 	the
critical point 	of the 	World 	Ceremony of the Pro-
clamation of Horus, the 	Crowned and 	Conquering
Child, as Lord of the Aeon." 	The Gnostics in the
second 	century 	had 	books 	" full 	of 	wickedness ",
and stripped of its pseudo-mystical verbiage the plain
meaning of this rubric is that divine honour must be
paid 	to 	the 	devil, 	Satan-Pantheus, 	with 	whom
(Stanislas 	de 	Guaita 	says) 	St. 	Michael 	fought
victoriously for he it is whom they salute as the Child,
the Cosmic serpent who tempted Eve and by whom
came death and sin.
One of these grimoires has this warning : 	" The
student, 	if he attains any success in the following
practices, will find himself confmnted by things too
glorious or too dreadful to be described. 	It is essential
that he remain the master of all that he beholds, hears,
or conceives ; otherwise he will be the slave of illusion
and the prey of madness."
~ l i ~ h a s	Lkvi, whose two great works Dognu h la
Haute Magie ( I 855) and Ritwl de la Haute Ma@ 	( I 856)
were 	together 	translated 	in 	1923 	as 	Transcedntal
Magic by Mr. Arthur Edward Waite, lays down five
Conditions of Success in InfernalEvocations : ( I ) Invincible
obstinacy ; 	(2) 	a 	conscience at once hardened 	to

g8 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
crime 	and 	not 	subject to 	remorse 	and 	fear ; 	(3)
ignorance, affected or natural ; 	(4) blind faith in all
that is incredible ; (5) a completely false idea of God.
If these are understood in the right way they may be
regarded 	as 	sufficiently 	summing 	up 	the 	essential
characteristics 	of 	black 	magic 	and 	all 	goetic
experiments. 	By a completely false 	idea of 	God I under-
stand the express renunciation of God, the paying of
divine honour to Satan with whom a contract (tacit
or explicit) is made and whose will is done by the
witch.
It must ever be borne in mind that the practice and
profession of black mqgic are not lightly to be under-
taken ; the dark mysteries are no jest, no pastime of
an idle hour as many fools and empty inquirers seem
to suppose. 	There are no dilettanti in witchcraft.
There are the mountebanks, of course, who give
fatuous talks on black magic in 	Mayfair 	drawing-
rooms ; there are the bright young things who try to
raise the devil in a circle and do not succeed ; there is
the fifth-rate novelist who peppers his trashy thrillers
with 	occult 	episodes borrowed 	en 	bloc 	from 	some
standard work. 	There is and there always will 	be
plenty of humbug, 	and very paying humbug 	too,
along these lines.
Before the secrets of the grimoire can be unfolded
the price must be given, the terrible barter must be
exchanged.
Another volume, of which mention is made-one
that is often codused with, but should be distinguished
from, the grimoire-is 	what we may term the Devil's
Missal. 	Probably this had its origin far back in the
mist of the centuries among the earliest heretics who

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	99
passed down their evil traditions to their followers,
the Albigenses and the Waldenses or Vaudois.
Enough has been said to show that mischief and
malice were part and parcel of the witch's profession,
and indeed there was required from them at their
reception into this dark society a vow that they would
devote themselves wholly to evil. 	They were more-
over pledged to carry on an active Satanist propaganda,
to win recruits and to use every endeavour to draw other
men and women to their detestable practices and the
worship of the fiend. 	Thus in the case of Janet Bread-
heid, of Auldearne, we find that her husband " enticed
her into that craft ". 	A girl named Bellot, of Madame
Bourignon's academy, confessed that her mother had
taken her to the Sabbat when she was quite a child.
Another girl alleged that all worshippers of the Devil
" are constrained to offer him their children ". 	At
Salem, George Burroughs, a minister, was accused by
a large number of women as " the person who had
Seduc'd 	and 	Compell'd 	them 	into 	the 	snares 	of
Witchcraft ". 	Elizabea 	Francis, of 	Chelmsford, 	a
witch tried in 1566, was only about twelve years old
when her grandmother taught her the art of sorcery.
The Pendle beldame, Mother Demdike, " brought up
her owne Children, instructed her Graund-children,
and tooke great care and paines to bring them to be
Witches." 	It is hardly to be believed that a modern
writer 	of 	a 	certain 	school-fortunately 	at 	once
negligible 	and 	freakish-should 	characterize 	this
dedication of young children to hell 	and the lord
of hell as " a ceremony, at once simple and touching ".
To-day the Satanists are thoroughly imbued with
the missionary spirit, and 	are ever eager to enlar ge

I00 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
their ranks to the destruction of immortal souls. 	A
very general method is for the Satanist to lure his
intended proselyte into the most odious debaucheries,
even to tempt him to the commission of some crime,
and then if he seem laggard to subscribe his service
to the demon and join the infernal gang the pressure
of blackmail can be brought to bear until the poor
wretch is wholly ensnared and lost. 	Any defection
from the ranks, any attetnpted betrayal, or in many
cases, lukewarmness even, is punished by death. 	Thus
the members are terrorized, and many an unexplained,
undiscovered murder is in truth the work of Satanists,
the vengeance they have wreaked upon some traitor.
It 	is 	not necessary to do more than mention in
passing the immense sums of money which have been
so lavishly poured out by this dark brotherhood to
corrupt and destroy whole countries and nations by
their anarchy and red revolutions.
I t is a commonplace of Catholic teaching that there
has been a True Religion in the world ever since the
creation of man-" 	the Universal Church began with
Abel the Just "-and 	when Christ Himself came this
existent True Religion received 	the 	designation of
Christianity. Opposed to the True Religion throughout
was the cult of evil, Satanism.
Witchcraft was potent-indeed 	more potent than
ever after-and 	the devil had his worshippers before
the coming of Christ. 	Not to speak of the Oriental
magic of the Egyptians 	and 	the 	Chaldaeans ; 	nor
of Hebrew necromancies, which the Bible condemns
again and again ; sorcerers flourished in Greece and
Rome, and the whole body of ancient legislation clearly
shows that before the dawn of Christianity, in the

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	I 0 1
paynim era when a multiplicity of heathen cults pre-
vailed throughout the Roman empire, witchcraft was
as 	uncompromisingly 	prohibited 	as 	ever 	it 	was
denounced and punished by the great Pontiffs, by
Innocent VIII and Sixtus V ; 	in Germany during
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries ; in England
by the parliaments of Elizabeth and James.
I t is an empty and utterly baseless theory to suppose
(as a 	certain type of imaginative writer has been
indiscreet 	enough 	to 	assert) 	that 	witchcraft is 	the
survival of some primitive cult of which nothing is
known, concerning which nothing can be definitely
discovered, 	and 	which 	is 	certainly 	not 	mentioned
in any record or by any author. 	The development
of such a fantasy merely leads to a wholesale wresting
of historical facts, to a ludicrous perversion of evidence
-probably 	quite 	unconsciously 	misread-and 	to
general cheap claptrap all round.
None of the earlier religions existed with the express
design and end of perpetrating evil for evil's 	sake.
Now this constitutes the very essence of witchcraft,
which is first and foremost the cult of hell. 	It is surely
permissible to express surprise when one finds Satanism
described as " a joyous religion ".
Bit with the novelty of the thing, some enterprising
folklorist next asks us to look upon witchcraft " in the
light of a fertility cult ", being careful, of course, for
convenience sake to 	ignore 	the 	occult phenomena
lest the issue be confused. 	It seems superfluous to
remark that not a tittle of sound evidence can be
brought forward to support such a capriccio.
That here and there lingered various old harmless
customs and rustic festivities which had come down

I02 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
from pre-Christian times and which the Church had
allowed, nay, had even sanctified by directing them
to their right source, the Maypole dances, for example,
and the Midsummer fires, which now honour St. John
Baptist, is a matter of common knowledge. 	But there
is no continuance of a pagan fertility cult.
Nor will anyone seek to argue from some extra-
ordinary 	but 	isolated 	and 	infrequent 	instances of
survival. 	In Easter week, 1282,John, the parish priest
of 	Inverkeithing, 	celebrated 	the 	profane 	rites 	of
Priapus, collecting young girls from the villages and
compelling them to tread a measure in honour of
Father Bacchus. 	When he had led these females
forth in a troop, out of sheer wantonness he danced
before carrying in front on a pole a representation of
the human organs of reproduction, and singing and
capering himself like a mime. he viewed them all, and
stirred them to lust by filthy language. The older men
who being scandalized by this shameless performance
rebuked him gently because they respected the dignity
of his 	office, 	he violently abused, 	and 	comported
himself more madly than ever. 	He also at dawn in
Penance Week insisted that some should prick others
who were stripped for penance with sharp goads, and
when 	the 	graver 	burgesses 	protested 	he 	sturdily
defended these indecencies. One night he was stabbed
to death, nor was his assailant discovered.
About 	a 	dozen 	years 	before 	these 	pranks 	at
Inverkeithing a cattle plague had broken out in various
districts, 	which 	led 	to 	the 	revival 	of 	long 	dead
mummel-ies. 	Two or three monks, it is said, advised
the country folk to erect an image or terminal to
Priapus, and through some ritual which involved the

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	1°3
lighting of new fire by 	the 	friction of 	wood 	they
prophesied the beasts would be relieved. 	At Fenton
a 	Cistercian lay-brother 	actually set up this figure
before the hall hearth and sprinkled the byres of the
lord of the manor with holy water to which he had
added " filthy matters of his own invention ". 	Here
we have an example of a lewd and degraded super-
stition no doubt, but to talk of " Priapus-worship "
and to describe the Cistercians as " monastic wizards "
is not a trifle ridiculous, and betrays an extraordinary
confusion of ideas.
In 1749 Girolamo Tartarotti (1702-1761), 	a minor
journalist, one of the many literary abbati who swarmed
throughout 	Italy 	at 	that 	time 	writing 	with 	equal
elegance facile verse and fluent prose, published at
Venice 	a 	large 	quarto 	volume, 	which 	he 	entitled
A Study o f the Midnight Sabbats of Witches (Del Congresso
Notturno delle Lammie). 	His chapters are composed with
an immense parade of learning-he 	quotes from more
than three hundred and eighty authors-perhaps 	no
such wonderful task in those days of leisure and large
libraries. 	He shows himself, as the fashion went, a
complete sceptic, and the thesis of this " member of
the 	Republic 	of 	Letters ", 	for so he floridly dubs
himself, is that there were never any assemblies or
rendezvous of Satanists, and indeed summing it up in
a few words that witchcraft is imaginary and a sick
dream. 	A Stue of 	the Midnight Sabbats of Witches is a
very rare book, Tartarotti has been completely for-
gotten, and he would not be worth mentioning here
were it not for one curious and interesting point. 	In
the course of his excogitations he discusses the famous
" Canon Episcopi ",an enactment to be considered in

1°4 	THE PRACTICE OF WITCHCRAFT
detail 	later, 	which 	speaks of 	certain 	women 	who
seduced by the snare of the demon 	" believe and
declare that they ride upon beasts with Diana, goddess
of the pagans ", and with multitudes of women flying
through the air in service and attendance upon her.
From this Tartarotti evoked the fantastic idea of a
" Dianic cult ", and he contends that witchcraft was
nothing else than this imaginary cult. 	(Chapter IX :
The 	identi0 	of the 	Dianic 	Cult 	with 	modern 	witchrraft
is demonstrated and proven.) 	Actually his arguments, if
we may dignify unsupported statements and romancing
by this name, could convince nobody, and the whole
thing fell to the ground and was ignored.
A 	recent writer chancing upon Tartarotti's 	book
(either, I suppose, at the British Museum or drawing
from the notice in the Soldan-Heppe 	Geschichte der
Hexenprozesse) promptly borrowed the idea, and came
out with a new thesis concerning " the Dianic cult ",
" as 	I 	propose to 	call it," 	which 	embraced 	" the
religious beliefs and ritual of the people known in late
mediaeval times as ' Witches ' ". 	Of course Tartarotti
was never so much as mentioned. 	The theory was at
first mightily commended in certain quarters for its
novelty, 	its scientific modernity, but 	when 	in 	the
Foreword to a translation of Remy's Demonolatry ( I 930)
I happened to show that Tartarotti's crochet had long
since been discredited and had fallen into oblivion,
the 	" Dianic cult " was speedily dropped, and very
little (I believe) has since been heard of it.
Witchcraft does not belong to the antiquarian past ;
it lives and energizes, a monstrous and fearful menace
to-day, and it is perhaps only by a clear and under-
standing view of the history of black magic that we

MALICE AND MISCHIEF OF WITCHES 	1°5
can 	be 	aware 	of 	the 	imminent 	dangers 	which
surround us.
As the Duke of Lauderdale once wrote : 	" It is
impertinent arguing to conclude, that because there
have been Cheats in 	the World, because there are
some too credulous, and some have been put to Death
for Witches, and were not, 	therefore all 	Men are
deceived."

CHAPTER 	I11
So vile and pestilent 	a superstition, whose evil and reprobate
adherents the common consent of society holds as enemies to general
order and, indeed, the foes of the human race. POPEJOHN XXII.
Satan calleth them together into a Devilish Synagogue, and that
he may aho understand of them how well and diligently they have
fulfilled 	their o&e 	of intoxicatiw committed unto them, and whom
they huve slain. LAMBERT	DANEAU.
The dark and secret Society of Witches spreads-
a 	huge 	network 	of 	evil--over 	the 	whole 	world.
~ h r o u ~ h o u t	Europe and America in particular the
organization 	of Satanists is very thorough and very
complete. 	In less than the span of a limited lifetime,
not more than sixty years indeed after the first settlers
had 	landed 	at 	Massachusetts Bay, 	Cotton 	Mather
notes as a detail significantly dangerous in itself and
worthy 	of particular 	attention 	the 	systematic 	and
methodized federation of the Salem witches. 	He says,
" 'Tis very Remarkable to see what an Impious and
Impudent 	imitation 	of 	Divine 	Things 	is 	Apishly
affected 	by 	the Devil," 	and 	after showing that in
many striking incidents the sorceries of the native
Indians might 	be 	taken 	to be 	a 	burlesque of the
Biblical narrative, he continues : 	" The Devil which
then thus imitated what was in the Church of the Old
Testament, now among 	Us would Imitate the Affairs

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	1°7
of the Church in the New. 	The Witches do say, that
they 	form 	themselves much 	after 	the 	manner 	of
Congregational Churches ; and that they have a Baptism
and a Supper, and 	O&ers 	among them, abominably
Resembling those of our Lord."
There are, it is true, cases upon record and instances
to be met with to-day of the solitary witch, dweIling
apart and alone in some remote and unfrequented
comer, apparently leading an 	almost isolated and
eremitical life, but this is a rather rare exception.
The members of the witch society in various districts,
large or small, villages, towns, great cities, or even
shires and provinces, 	are linked up, 	and a 	corre-
spondence 	is 	maintained 	between 	them 	in 	many
mysterious ways. 	There is an 	active freemasonry
of evil.
One of the oaths demanded from a novice is generally
a pledge to frequent the midnight assemblies. 	These
conventicles or covens are the meetings of bands or
companies of 	witches 	summoned 	and 	forgathering
under the discipline of an officer, who naturally was*
assisted in his work by other fbnctionaries. 	Obviously
the members of a coven would all belong as nearly
as possible to the same neighbourhood, and especially
was this the case in former years when the means of
transit were far more slow and difficult than at the
present day. 	It appears from the evidence at numerous
trials, both at home 	and 	abroad, that 	those who
belonged to a coven were bound to attend the weekly
Esbat or rendezvous. 	The arrest of one member of
a coven often led to the implication of many more
who belonged to the same gang.
The number of witches which constituted and still

I 08 	THE 'WITCH 	COVENS AND
constitutes a 	coven has been 	much discussed. 	In
a famous Scotch trial of 1662 when the revelations
of Isobel Gowdie, of Auldearne, gave the fullest details
concerning almost every circumstance of witchcraft,
amply describing the Sabbats, the minor meetings, the
ceremonies and instructions in malefic charms, she
confessed " ther ar threttein persons in ilk Coeven ".
In a very exhaustive investigation of this point Mr.
Alexander Keiller thus sums up : " To those unaware
of the probable organization of what might be termed
the Witch Sect in Europe, in at any rate the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries, it may be explained that
the Administrative and Executive Unit of Witchcraft
customarily consisted of thirteen persons, 	and 	was
usually termed a ' Coven ' or ' Coeven '." This scholar
has explored in great detail " The Territorial Distri-
bution of Witchcraft in Aberdeenshire ", and he has
also set forth " The Personnel of the Aberdeenshire
Witchcraft 	Covens in 	the years 	1596-7 " 	showing
that there were five distinct covens each formed of
thirteen members, as well as three other covens which
owing to the lack of necessary data cannot be precisely
completed.
Until at least the latter part of the seventeenth
century 	a 	well-organized group 	of witches 	existed
between Shotley Bridge and Corbridge in the county
of Northumberland. 	Ann Armstrong a farm servant
at Burtree House, 	a few 	miles from Stocksfield-on-
Tyne, was for a time partially drawn into the society
and when in February, I 672-3, she voluntarily deposed
before a number of magistrates her witness was most
clear and detailed. 	Lieut.-Colonel 	G. R. 	B. 	Spain
writes : " It is obvious from the evidence that Ann

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	1°9
Armstrong was closely in 	touch with 	a witchcraft
organization over a large district of some fifty square
miles." 	(" The 	Witches of Riding 	Mill, 	1673 " :
Cornhill 	Magazine, 	March, 	1929.) 	Ann 	Armstrong
described how the witches were divided into " coveys,
consisting of thirteen persons in every covey ".
On the other hand it can be equally well shown that
in many cases the local group or coven of witches did
not 	consist of thirteen members. 	Sixteen 	witches
belonged to the St. Osyth coven in 1582 ; ten witches
formed 	the coven that 	infested the 	Waltham 	and
Hedingham countryside five years later. 	The witches
of Warboys who so plagued the Throgrnortons and
killed Lady Cromwell were three in number. 	No less
than thirty-five witches can be traced in connexion
with 	the famous Pendle Forest trials 	(1613). 	To
attempt to divide this total into covens of thirteen
is singularly futile. 	In the effort to do so not only has
evidence been juggled, 	but 	Mother Demdike and
Mother Chattox are placed in the same group, upon
which Mr. L'Estrange Ewen justly comments : " This
is a wild argument. 	Demdike and Chattox could not
have been in the same coven because they were very
keen rivals." 	Some of the London covens of Satanists
to-day are composed of as many 	as thirty or forty
men and women ; other circles again are quite small
and only comprise ten initiates.
The 	O$;cers 	among the witches, of whom Cotton
Mather speaks, were in the first place the local Chiefis
or Masters of a coven, above whom was the Grand
Master of a district.
There is very ample proof that " the Devil " of the
Sabbat was not infrequently a human 	being, none

I I 0 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
other indeed than the Grand Master of the district,
and since his officers and immediate attendants were
also termed " Devils " by the witches some confusion
has on occasion ensued. 	In Jersey the Grand Master,
the Devil's 	deputy, was known as 	" Le TchCziot ".
In a few cases where sufficient details are given it is
possible actually to identify " the Devil " by name.
During the trial in December, 1481, at Neuchatel,
of Rolet Croschet, he confessed that when quite a
lad he had been taken to a meeting of witches by
Jaquet 	Duplan. 	Here he was welcomed by 	" the
Devil ", a tall dark man, named Robin, to whom
he did homage and who made much of him. 	The
second time Croschet went to a rendezvous of sorcerers
the gathering was much smaller, and the president
was 	Captain 	Hanchement, evidently a 	well-known
figure in the town, by whom he was appointed the
local messenger for the society, and he used to go up
and down to the various witches' houses giving notice
of the assemblies and other bad businesses. At another
time he attended a meeting of some other covens than
his own belonging to Vauxtravers a few leagues away,
and here the Provost was Etienne Goynet.
In 	1579 at 	Windsor there used to meet 	" within
the backside of Master Dodges in the Pittes " a coven
presided over by Father Rosimond, of Farnham. 	It
has 	been 	too 	ingeniously 	suggested 	that 	Father
Rosimond alias Osborne, whom Mother Stiles of the
coven named as her " chief ", was a priest. 	But, no,
this " wise man " (as he is termed) was a widower with
a daughter who proved wellnigh as versed in sorcery
as himself.
It is true that sometimes a clergyman stands revealed

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I I I
as a high official among the witches. The Rev. George
Burroughs, pastor at Wells, Maine, was accused by
eight of the Salem witches " as being an head Actor at
some of their Hellish Rendezvouses, and one who had
the promise of being a King in Satan's Kingdom ".
He was often heard to brag " that he was a Conjuror,
above the ordinary Rank of Witches ", whilst several
of the 	Satanists declared that 	" he was the Person
who 	had 	Seduc'd, 	and 	Compell'd 	them 	into 	the
snares of Witchcraft ". 	Now it is established beyond
all question that George Burroughs was 	the Grand
Master of the district. 	Admittedly in the wave of
extreme rationalism which so inexplicably swept over
Massachusetts at 	the 	beginning 	of 	the 	eighteenth
century the General Court reversed George Burroughs'
attainder and awarded damages to his heirs, but this
does not in the least (as a recent historian appears
to think) clear him from the guilt of witchcraft nor
yet does it rebut even one particular of the charges
which were proven up to the hilt again and again.
Cotton Mather, for example, never altered his opinion
of Burroughysculpability, and did not spare to express
his sternest disapproval of the general v o l t e - f ~ ~ ; ~ .
Among a list of " confederates against Her Majesty
Queen 	Elizabeth, who 	have 	diverse 	and 	sundry
times conspired her life " we have Lord 	Paget, 	Sir
George Hastings, Sir Thomas Hanmer, " Ould Birtles
the great devel, Darnally the sorcerer, Maude Two-
good 	enchantresse, 	the ould 	witche of 	Ramsbury,
several other ould witches." 	Full details are lacking
but it seems plain that Old Birtles was the Grand
Master or " Devil " of a coven of Wiltshire Witches.
The evil William, Lord Soulis, of Hermitage Castle,

I I2 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
often known as " Red Cap ",was " the Devil " of a
coven of sorcerers. 	He was protected by a terrible
charm against any injury from rope or steel ; cords
could not bind nor sword pierce him. 	And so when
he was seized by his enemies they rolled him up in
sheets of lead and boiled him to death at a place
called the Nine-Stane Rig.
On a circle of stones they placed the pot,
On a circle of stones but barely nine ;
They heated it red and fiery hot,
And the burnished brass did glimmer and shine.
They rolled him up in a sheet of lead
A sheet of lead for a kneral pall ;
They plunged him into the cauldron red,
And melted him body, lead, bones and all.
The chamberlain and chief counsellor of Philip IV
of France, 	Enguerrand de 	Marigny, was 	a 	Grand
Master of sorcerers prominent among whom were a
notorious warlock, Jacobus de Lor, his wife and man-
servant. Jacobus killed himself in prison whilst awaiting
trial ; the witch, his wife, perished at the stake. Under
Louis X, on 30th April, I 3 I 5, de Marigny was hanged
at Paris.
An even more mysterious figure was 	Robert 	I11
dYArtois,the Grand Master of a veritable legion of
witches. 	During the year 	1333 he endeavoured to
kill Philip VI, 	the Queen, .and the Dauphin by his
spells and enchantments. 	The design, before it could
be matured, was betrayed by one of his minions, and
proscription 	and 	sentence of perpetual banishment
being pronounced against him, he 	fled 	to England
where he proved powerful enough to stir up Edward I11
against 	France, 	and 	to 	his 	influence 	may 	be
immediately ascribed the outbreak of the Hundred

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	1 1 3
Years War. 	He was feared and shunned everywhere
as a past master of image magic, and it was also
whispered that he possessed a number of most impious
manuscripts of goety written by Moorish sorcerers.
From these two instances, Enguerrand de Marigny
and Robert I11 d9Artois, we see that the activity of
the Witch society was no mere piece of casual mischief
wrought by doting village crones, who harmed their
neighbours and scattered domestic ills and unhappiness,
-bad 	businesses enough-but 	it reached further and
meddled with the highest politics to the confusion of
kingdoms and the ruin of dynasties. 	Such, as we
fearfully realize when we look at the world around us
is its chief business, wherein it is fatally energetic and
alive to-day. 	To reduce the world to a chaos of blood
and horror ; 	to stamp out and destroy all that is
beautiful, all that has some reflection of God ; such
are the aims and object of the Red and the Witch.
One of the most interesting identifications of " the
Devil " occurs in the course of the notorious trials of
Geillis Duncan, Agnes Sampson, Dr. John Fian, and
their associates in 1590-1. 	As is well known, the whole
crew was in league with Francis Stewart, Earl of
Bothwell, an incendiary vehemently suspected of the
black 	art. 	Long after when 	George Sandys was
staying at Naples there came to the inn a Calabrian,
an eminent scholar, who insisted on seeing the English
traveller. 	" And he," 	writes Sandys, " would needs
persuade me that I had insight in magick : for that
Earle Bofhel was my countryman, who lives at Naples,
and is in these parts famous for suspected 	negro-
mancie." 	In Scotland, Bothwell, then a young man,
was almost overtly aiming at the throne, and the witch

I I4 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
covens one and all were frantically attempting the
life of King James. 	Agnes Sampson, 	" the eldest
witch of them all," 	confessed that she had fashioned
a waxen puppet, and baptized it saying : 	This is
King James 	the Sixth, ordained to be consumed at
the instance of a noble man, Francis, Earl Bothwell."
At 	the 	next 	rendezvous 	of 	witches 	the 	presiding
" Devil " 	anxiously questioned her 	concerning the
moulding of the image, and what effect had followed
the melting of the figure at a slow fire and the piercing
of it with great black pins. 	There can be no doubt
at all that Bothwell was the moving force who energized
and 	directed 	the 	very 	elaborate 	and 	numerous
organization of demonolaters who were attacking the
King, seeking both his crown and his life. 	Bothwell
was in fine the Grand Master, the 	" Devil " of the
witches, and the centre of a vast political plot.
In the nineteenth century both Albert Pike and his
successor Adriano Lemmi have been identified upon
abundant 	authority 	as 	being 	Grand 	Masters 	of
societies practising Satanism, and as performing the
hierarchical functions of " the Devil " at the modern
Sabbat.
In his Displaying of Supposed 	Witchcraft, I 677, John
Webster had suggested with reference to 	Margaret
Agar and 	other 	" deluded 	Haggs " 	of the 	Brewham
coven, tried at Taunton 	during the June Assizes of
1665, that the " little Man in black Clothes with a
little 	band" 	who 	presided 	over 	the 	meeting 	at
Hussey's Knap, a coppice near the hamlet, and who
instructed the crew in moulding wax figurines and
pricking them with thorns was the local Grand Master,
a 	man-Devil, and Burns Begg points out that the

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	115
witches on occasion " seem to have been undoubtedly
the victims of unscrupulous and 	designing knaves,
who 	personated 	Satan ". 	This, 	however, 	is 	no
palliation of their crimes, and they are not one whit
the less guilty of sorcery and devil-worship if they obey
and adore a representative of Satan, rather than the
demon himself. 	Nor do I think that the man who
personated Satan at these horrid assemblies was so
much an unscrupulous and designing knave as himself
a demonist, believing intensely in the reality of his
own dark powers, wholly and horribly dedicated and
doomed to the service of evil.
Moreover sometimes the demon himself appeared
whilst the rites were in full blast, as at the horrible
mockery 	of 	the 	Last 	Supper attended 	one 	Good
Friday by Madeleine Bavent when Mathurin Picard
was the celebrant of those blasphemies, and during
this abominable supper a dark familiar walked round
the table at which the company were seated, crying
aloud : Not one of you shall betray me !
God, so far as His ordinary presence and action
in Nature are concerned, is hidden behind the veil
of secondary causes, and when God's ape, the Demon,
can work so successfully and obtain not merely devoted
adherents but fervent worshippers by human agency,
there is plainly no need for him to manifest himself
in person either to particular individuals or at every
Sabbat. 	None the less it is certain that he can do so,
that he has done and yet does so very frequently,
and the number of cases in the records of trials which
are to be explained in no other way, that is to say
where 	the 	devil manifests himself in 	some shape,
appears to and 	has 	most intimate connexions with

I 16 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
his 	besotted worshippers, 	are extremely numerous,
and from what I know I am persuaded that we may
safely avouch that to-day the demon is more frequently
himself present at the modern sabbats than he functions
through a deputy.
In the Caverne des Trois Frhes, 	Arikge, 	France,
there is depicted on the upper wall of the cave by
some 	Palzeolithic 	artist ten thousand years ago the
figure of a man clothed in the skin of a stag with a
horse's tail and wearing on his head huge branching
antlers. 	This Caverne has a gallery of over four
hundred pictures, but this figure " The Sorcerer " at
the far end, painted 	high up on the rock in the
" wizard's chamber ",as it has been called, dominates
the whole. 	Here then we have a masked magician, a
Grand Master of the Old Stone Age.
A whole catena of evidence from the Fathers and
Doctors of the Church might be easily adduced, all
sternly denunciatory of those who dress themselves
in the hides of animals and don great horns, thus
decked out for licentious and profane assemblies and
the 	performance 	of 	obscenest 	rituals. 	Thus 	St.
Caesarius 	of 	Arles 	(470-542) 	more 	than 	once
anathematizes those who dress themselves in furry
pelts and who don horned helmets, completely meta-
morphosed into animals. 	He warns the faithful :
" If ye abhor any participation in their sins, ye will
not suffer these human stags or bull-calves or other
monsters to approach you, nay, not so much as to
come nigh 	your 	dwellings."
Prohibitions of these devilish mummeries and bestial
vizardings are to be repeatedly found in the early
Penitentials.

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	117
We are forcibly reminded, and indeed there is a
most intimate and vital connexion between the two,
of the fiendish masks and 	dresses assumed by the
witch-doctors and sorcerers of Africa and Tibet.
There is complete evidence that the hierophant at
the witches' Sabbat, when a human being played that
r61e, 	generally wore this traditional disguise. 	Nay
more, 	as regards the British 	Isles at least-and 	it
seems clear that in other countries the habit was very
similar-we 	possess a pictorial representation of " the
Devil " as he appeared to his worshippen. 	During
the famous Fian trials-to 	which reference has already
been made-Agnes 	Sampson confessed : 	" The devil
was clad in a black gown with a black hat upon his
head. 	. . . His face was terrible, 	his nose like the
beak 	of an 	eagle, 	great 	burning eyes ; 	his hands
and his legs were hairy, with claws upon his hands
and feet like the griffin." 	In the pamphlet Nmes from
Scotland, Declaring the Damnable life and death of 	Doctor
Fian we have a rough woodcut, repeated twice, which
shows " the Devil " preaching from the North Berwick
pulpit to the whole coven of witches, and allowing for
the crudity of the draughtsman and a few unimportant
differences of detail-the 	black gown and hat are not
portrayed-the 	demon in the picture is exactly like
the description Agnes Sampson gave. 	It must be
remembered, too, that at the Sabbat she was in a
state of morbid excitation, in part due to deep cups
of heady wine, the time was midnight, the place a
haunted old church, the only light a few flickering
candles that burned with a ghastly blue flame.
Now " the Devil " as he is shown in the Newes from
Scotland illustration is precisely the Devil who appears

I 18 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
upon 	the 	title-page 	of 	Middleton 	and 	Rowley's
masque 	The 	World 	tost 	at 	Tennis, 	4t0, 	1620. 	This
woodcut presents an episode towards the end of the
masque, and here the Devil in traditional disguise,
a grim black hairy shape with huge beaked nose,
monstrous claws, and the cloven hoofs of a griffin,
in every particular fits the details so closely observed
by Agnes Sampson. 	I have no doubt that the drawing
for this masque was actually made in the theatre,
for although this kind of costly and decorative enter-
tainment was almost always designed for court or some
great nobleman's 	house, we know that 	The 	World
tost at Tennis was produced with considerable success
on the public stage " By 	the Prince his Servants ".
The dress, then, of " the Devil " at the Sabbats seems
frequently to have been of the nature of an elaborate
theatrical costume, such as might perhaps have been
found in the stock wardrobe of a rich playhouse at
London, but 	which would 	have had no histrionic
associations 	for 	provincial 	folk 	and 	even 	simpler
rustics.
Lambert Daneau, whose Les Sorciers was translated
in 	1575 by Thomas Taylor as A Dialogue of 	Witches,
says that the 	" witches acknowledge the Devil for
their God, call upon him, pray to him, and trust in
him ", and 	when 	they assemble at 	their 	Sabbats,
" they repeat the oath which they have given unto
him in acknowledging him as their God."
From almost every witch-trial in every land evidence
to this effect might be accumulated. 	The matter is
perfectly plain, and it is futile to attempt to conceal
or confuse the issue, the God of the witches is and
was the Devil, " the wicked one," 	" that old serpent

.*I
brene diwevs tinfcsCPve//m tcd t o thea
THE WORLD TOST AT TENNIS
The First Quarto
[face p. 118


THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	119
called 	the 	Devil, 	and 	Satan, which 	deceiveth the
whole world," 	" the Prince of the power of the air,
the spirit that now worketh in the children of dis-
6 6
obedience," who " sinneth from the beginning ", 	a
murderer from the beginning," " a liar, and the father
of it." 	Be it remarked that these phrases are neither
" cheap claptrap " nor " purple patches " nor swayed
by colourful prejudice. 	I quote the simple unvarnished
words of the Authorized Version of the English Bible.
On those occasions when no visible presence of
discarnate evil, no demon, appeared or presided at
the Sabbat orgy, divine honours were paid to Satan's
deputy, the Grand Master, although it does not follow
that he was in himself and of himself regarded as
absolute God. 	It is a nice, but none the less an
important distinction, and although essentially true
I am not prepared to say that as such it was appre-
hended by the majority of the witches, assuredly not
by the poorer and clownish folk from whom, in the
British Isles at any rate, so many of the covens were
recruited.
Among certain primitive peoples and in various
savage tribes the chieftain or King was regarded as
representative of and partaking in deity. 	He was, in
fact, a man-god, and we find that very often he was
ceremonially put to a violent death. 	As summed up
by 	Sir James 	Frazer : 	" the motive for slaying a
man-god is a fear lest with the enfeeblement of his
body in sickness or old age his sacred spirit should
suffer 	a 	corresponding decay, which might imperil
the general course of nature and with it the existence
of his worshippers who believe the cosmic energies
to be mysteriously knit up with those of their human

I20 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
divinity." 	Such in brief is the theory of " The Dying
God " or " The Divine Victim ", as it is conveniently
known.
It 	is a 	curious and 	irresponsible fantasy which
attempts to superimpose the hypothesis of the c c Divine
Victim " 	upon the Grand 	Masters of the witches.
Such a figment is difficult to be approached in serious
discussion, since it offers no vestige of reality, and
vaguely 	imaginative 	conjectures 	are 	not 	easy 	of
refutation, or rather they carry their own disproof.
Yet we are assured that certain figures, both historical
and legendary, as for example King Edmund, the
" deed-doer ", King Edmund 	Ironside, King Cnut
" the Great ", Bishop Walcher of Durham, 	William
Rufus, St. Thomas of Canterbury, St. Joan of Arc,
Gilles de Rais, Robin 	Hood, 	Friar Tuck, were not
only Grand Masters of witch societies, but also '' the
Incarnate God ". 	Every one of these personages was
ceremonially put 	to 	death, 	and 	the 	sacrifice was
repeatedly 	consummated. 	When 	we 	venture 	to
ask what tittle of fact exists to support this amazing
assertion, 	we 	are coolly instructed that in the first
place all records, all evidence from history must be
swept aside as useless 	(a very necessary preliminary
this, 	I 	am willing to admit), and 	" the Christian
inquisitors 	are 	unanimous 	on 	this 	point ", which
last statement is, I venture to say, wholly unfounded.
I t really is not worth while-even 	if space allowed
-to 	enter into all these cases in detail. 	I would merely
point out that in the instance of St. Joan of Arc these
wild theories have been dealt with by scholars and
historians to be exploded once and for all. 	Nor would
it be difficult to show how preposterous such fabling

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I21
is with regard to the other names. 	The murder of
William Rufus in the New Forest was due to homo-
sexual 	jealousy, 	and 	although 	they 	have 	been
squeamishly suppressed practically the full details of
the affair can be traced. 	If anyone likes to consider
that Robin Hood 	and Friar Tuck were wizards 	I
hardly suppose that any serious objection will be raised,
but 	I 	submit that it is distinctly offensive to very
many when St. Thomas 21 Becket stands thus defamed.
I am only too well aware that devotion to St. Thomas
is weak and 	an&c 	enough in England. 	It is a
matter for regret that his holy Feast is not celebrated
amongst us with greater solemnity, that his secondary
Feast 	of 	the 	Translation 	is 	observed 	in 	only one
diocese. Yet there are still those who visit Canterbury
" The holy blisful martir for to seke ". 	St. Thomas
still has his clients who keep Tuesday in his honour,
who have kissed the hallowed spot where he fell, who
make pilgrimage and worship at his shrine.
In the case of historical figures the sole argument
to show that such-an-one was a 	Grand 	Master of
witches and 	" the Incarnate God" 	seems to be a
violent death. 	I shall not be in the least surprised to
be told that Jack 	Sheppard, Dick Turpin, 	Eugene
Aram, 	George 	Barnwell 	and 	Sweeney Todd 	were
" Incarnate Gods ", whilst to companion Friar Tuck
let 	us 	have 	Grindoff the 	Miller, Bill Sikes, Count
Fosco and Cock Robin.
To quote a shrewd saying of the famous Dr. Henry
More : 	" At this pitch 	of wit . . . is the Reason of our
professed 	Wit-would-be's 	of 	this present 	Age, 	who 	will
catch at any slight occmion or pretence 	of misbeliving those
things that thy cannot endure should be true."

I22 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
The name Sabbat, the derivation of which does not
appear to be exactly established, may be held 	to
cover 	almost 	every 	formal 	assembly 	of 	devil-
worshippers, 	and 	thus 	ranges 	from 	comparative
simplicity, the secret rendezvous in the open air or
in some poor hut 	of 	half-a-dozen witches devoted
to the fiend and presided over by the official of the
village, to a large and crowded congregation adoring
the 	demon 	upon 	his 	throne and 	marshalled 	by
incarnate evil intelligences, a mob outvying the angels
of the pit in malice, blasphemy, and revolt, the vomit
of pandemonium on earth.
The day of the week whereon the Sabbat was held
varied in 	different localities and 	at several times.
There is indeed an accumulation of evidence for every
night, although Friday was most generally favoured.
Saturday and 	Sunday were if possible particularly
avoided, especially a Saturday. 	At the trial of Louis
Gaufridi in May, 1614,it was proved that the Sabbats
were held on every night of the week. 	Wednesday
and Friday were the Sabbats of blasphemy and the
Black Mass, whilst to the other nights were allotted
the most hideous villainies which humanity can con-
ceive or perform. In England, it was stated during the
seventeenth century that the " Solemn appointments
and 	meetings . . . are 	ordinarily 	on 	Tuesday 	or
Wednesday night ". 	The witches of Burgundy met
on Tuesday night, so we may conclude with Boguet
" that there is no fixed day for the Sabbat, but that
witches 	go 	to 	it whenever 	Satan so commands ".
This is confirmed by Madeleine Bavent who says :
" There seemed to be no fixed day for the assembly."
Antide Colas confessed that she was wont to attend

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	123
the Sabbat upon each of the greater Festivals of the
year, as for example at Christmas, Easter, Corpus
Christi, and Boguet gives us the reason for this too-
" the wicked one celebrates his assemblies on Holy
Days, and thus mockingly seduces the creatures of
God from His service."
Thus we hear of Sabbats being held on the vigils
of the " nine chief feasts of the year ",namely, Easter,
Epiphany, Ascension Day, the Purification, Nativity
and Assumption of Our Lady, Corpus Christi, 	All
Saints, and the Nativity of St. John Baptist. 	In one
English village the Sabbat was held on St. Bartholo-
mew's Eve, this apostle being Patron of the Church
and parish. 	Throughout Eastern Europe a Sabbat
was held on the Eve of St. George. In Western Europe
the day of one of the principal assemblies was on
30th April, 	the 	Eve of May Day, famous over 	all
Northern 	Germany 	as 	Die 	Walpurgis-Nacht, 	the
Night of Saint Walburga.
The 	Grand 	Sabbats were 	convened in 	a 	great
variety of places, whilst the lesser Sabbats could be
easily assembled in an even larger number of spots,
as might be most convenient to the Satanists of the
district, a field near a village, a wood, a tor, a valley,
an open waste beneath some blasted oak, a cemetery,
a ruined building, some solitary chapel or deserted
church, and often in a house belonging to one of the
initiates.
It was advisable that the selected locality should
be remote to obviate any chance of espionage or casual
interruption, and in many localities some wild 	ill-
omened gully or the lone hill-top was shudderingly
marked as the notorious haunt of witches and their fiends.

124 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
De Lancre says that in the Basque country the
Grand Sabbat was invariably held near a stream, a
lake, or water of some kind. 	Bodin confirms this to
some extent, for Antoine Gandillon, a witch of long
continuance, 	told 	him 	that 	there 	must 	always be
water in the place of the Sabbat, and the little coven
of the village of Coiritres 	held their Sabbat near a
mill-dam. 	The Breton witches assembled among the
ancient 	cromlechs 	and 	ruined 	dolmens 	of 	their
province. 	The market-crosses of sleepy old towns and
English villages were among the favourite rendezvous
of our country warlocks and witches. 	Mother Agar,
the 	Brewham 	witch, 	and 	her company forgathered
on Brewham Common, and also at Husseys-knap, a
coppice just beyond the hamlet. 	Dr. Fian and his
associates on 	All 	Hallows 	E'en 	assembled 	at 	the
lonely and haunted church of North Berwick. 	Silvain
Nevillon, 	who 	was 	executed 	at 	Orleans 	on 	the
4th February, 	1615, confessed " that the Sabbat was
celebrated in a house ", and the full details which he
gave shows this to have been a large 	chiteau, 	no
doubt the home of some wealthy local magnate, 	a
Satanist and probably the Grand Master of the district,
within whose walls above 200 persons could assemble.
In Jersey 	the witches' 	rendezvous was under the
shadow of a large rock south of Rocqueberg Point,
St. Clement, and it is believed that at their Sabbats
they 	often raised storms which imperilled those at
sea and drowned many a fisherman.
The Guernsey witches celebrated " the Feast of the
Sabbat " on Friday nights on the hill 	of 	Catibroc,
around the cromlech called " Le Trepied ". 	At the
time of the full moon they also met near the mill which

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	125
stands on the hill at 	Ville-&-Pies. 	Their favourite
spot, however, was the sands of Rocquaine Bay, where
they 	used 	to 	perform 	obscene 	dances 	chanting 	a
roundelay of which the 	burden ran " Qu6-hou-hou !
Marie Lihou ! " words uttered 	in impious defiance
and mockery of Notre Dame, Sainte Marie de Lihou.
This was a spot of such extraordinary sanctity, that
although both priory and church are but a heap of
shapeless ruins even to-day the French coasting vessels
as they pass salute it by lowering their topmast.
One of the most notorious meeting-places for witches
was the Brocken, popularly known as the Blocksburg,
the highest peak of the Hartz mountains. 	On Wal-
purgis Night huge assemblies of Satanists were wont
to 	forgather 	there, some 	(it is 	said) 	coming from
Norway 	and 	even 	from 	distant 	Lapland. 	Local
Blocksburgs existed, or rather hills so called, especially
in Pomerania which boasted two or three such crags.
Night was almost invariably the time for the Sabbat.
Father Delrio aptly observes : " Their assemblies are
generally held at dead of night when the Powers of
Darkness reign ; or, sometimes, at high noon, 	even
as the Psalmist saith, when he speaks of ' the noonday
devil '." 	The 	Lancashire witches celebrated 	their
Sabbat " about twelve of the clock in the day time ".
The witches of Stoke Trister, near Wincanton, " met
about nine of the Clock in the Night, in the Common
near 	Trister Gate." 	Mother Bishop, a Somersetshire
witch, 	confessed 	" That 	she hath 	been 	at 	several
meetings in Lie Common, and at other places in the
night ". 	On one occasion Christian Green of Brew-
ham and other witches met the devil " in Brewhm
Forest about Noon ", but the coven more frequently

126 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
used to assemble " at a place called Husspknap 	in
the Forest in the Night time ".
The time at which the Sabbat began was generally
upon the stroke of midnight. 	It lasted until the cock
crew, when everything vanished away.
A 	witch named 	Babilla 	Latoma, 	when 	minutely
questioned by Nicolas Remy about the nightly doing
of sorcerers, confessed that nothing was more fatally
obstructive to their loathsome businesses than that a
cock should crow. 	Two other witches informed the
same judge that when it was time to break up their
nocturnal 	assemblies 	the 	officers 	proclaimed 	in
c c
stentorian 	voices : 	Ho ! 	make 	haste 	and 	away,
all ; for the cock begins to crow." 	That the crowing
of a 	cock dissolves enchantments is 	a 	tradition 	of
remotest 	antiquity, 	and 	the 	poet 	Prudentius 	very
beautifully sings how the night-wandering 	demons,
who rejoice in dunnest shades, at the crowing of the
cock tremble and scatter in sore affright.
It has been quite confidently and quite erroneously
stated 	that 	in 	England 	the 	witches' 	Sabbat 	was
practically unknown, or at most, when the evidence
proves overwhelming and such as is impossible to
slur or set aside, it is argued that the English Sabbat
" was a feeble reflection of its foreign original ", and
existed only in an " attenuated " form. 	It is difficult
in the face of facts which certainly cannot be dismissed
and which one would have thought could hardly be
misinterpreted to appreciate whence this fallacy arose,
but since it has been so seriously put forward and
maintained 	it 	becomes 	necessary 	to 	make 	specific
mention of some few from the many cases in English
c c
witchcraft proving the Assemblies or 	synagogues "

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	127
of 	Satanists-and 	such 	gatherings 	continue 	very
actively to-day-whereat 	every kind of mischief and
devil's 	craft was hatched and ingeniously propelled.
In 	1579 the 	Windsor 	coven which was presided
over by Father Rosimond of Farnham were wont to
assemble for their Sabbats " within the backside of
Master Dodges in the Pittes ", and also about eleven
o'clock at night at the Pound. 	They were adepts in
making figurines, and having moulded in red wax
" pictures " of a neighbouring farmer and his maid-
servant, a local butcher, and the Mayor of Windsor,
they killed these four persons by sorcery, piercing the
figures through and 	through with sharp hawthorn
spines and prickles. 	A very important Sabbat was
held by the Lancashire witches on Good Friday, 1612,
at Malking Tower, the abode of old Mother Demdike,
where twenty and more indulged in a gluttonous orgy,
and plotted 	no inconsiderable amount of mischief,
including the murder 	of Thomas Lister, of Westly,
which they very effectually contrived in less than two
or three months. 	The Salmesbury witches, three of
whom were put on their trial in the same year, 1612,
used 	to 	celebrate their 	Sabbats on Thursday 	and
Sunday nights on the banks of the Ribble, where they
met four tall black men who provided meat and wine,
who danced with them and fornicated. 	Two of the
witches who had secretly killed a small child, after the
burial of the body dug it up, boiled it in a pot and
ate it, seething the bones to obtain fat for the witch's
ointment.
Ten years later the witches who plagued the family
of that eminent poet and scholar Edward Fairfax of
Fewstone, in 	the Forest of Knaresborough, used to

128 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
meet at midnight at Timble Gill, where a table was
spread with food and flagons, and the Devil sat at
the upper end.
In the case of the Second Lancashire witches, 1634,
Margaret 	Johnson 	confessed 	that 	on 	the 	Sunday
within the octave of All Saints she attended a Sabbat
at a house called Hoarestones (which was still standing
in 	1845) and there were present about forty witches
with their familiars. 	She further stated that Good
Friday was " one of their constant days of their general
meeting ".
Matthew Hopkins relates that in 1644 when he was
living at Manningtree, Essex, a number of witches,
both of his own town and from neighbouring villages,
" every six weeks in the night (being always on the
Friday night) had their meeting close by his house,
and had their several solemn sacrifices there offered
to the Devil."
About the same year the Leicestershire witches used
to 	forgather 	at 	Burton-on-the-Wolds 	" above 	four
score" 	at a Sabbat, and at Tilbrooke bushes near
Catworth " above twenty at one time" 	to worship
and serve the demon.
In September, 	1645, Goodwife Hott, 	a witch of
Faversham, Kent, related how 	" there was 	a great
meeting 	at 	Goodwife 	Pantery's 	house, 	and 	that
Goodwife 	Dadson 	was 	there, 	and 	that 	Goodwife
Gardner should have been there, but did not come,
and the Devil sat at the upper end of the table ".
Dr. Henry More, the famous Platonist philosopher,
learned that a coven of witches held their Sabbats
at the house of Mother 	LendalI 	of Cambridge, 	a
woman most ill-famed for impiety and evil, and that

THEIR 	GRAND MASTERS 	129
here late at night the " table was well furnished with
guests and meat ", whilst at the head of the board
there sat one in black to whom the numerous company
louted low with great reverence and did obeisance.
Much of the talk among the leaders of the party was
carried on in a strange tongue, not understood of the
humbler folk present.
The 	Malmesbury 	coven in 	1671 celebrated their
orgies at night in the house of one of the dark fellow-
ship, and here they securely feasted and drank deeply
and committed every kind of uncleanness, also plotting
evilly 	enough 	against 	their 	enemies 	and 	planning
murders with only too speedy and efficacious results.
The very dangerous and extremely well-organized
society of witches 	who infested the 	Northumbrian
woodlands and open moors between 	Shotley Bridge
and Corbridge at the end of the seventeenth century
had 	their 	general meeting-place at a 	house called
Riding House, near Riding Mill Bridge End, where
there was 	a 	banquet 	spread 	and 	" their 	protector
whom they called their god " sat at the top of the table
in a great gilt chair. 	One Good Friday no less than
sixty-five witches attended a great feast at the house
of John 	Newton, of the Riding, near Riding Mill,
where 	they 	were 	served 	with 	boiled 	capons, 	rich
cheeses, butter, white bread, beef, bottles of rare wine,
and a vast variety of all meats. 	Another Sabbat was
held at Allensford on the Derwent, when the whole
coven 	danced 	their 	ritual 	measure. 	Yet 	another
Sabbat was celebrated in the cellar of Master Francis
Pye's house at Morpeth.
In Massachusetts whither the foul traditions of witch-
craft had been brought from England and there could

I 3 O 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
be no question of continental custom or influence, the
Salem witches held their General Meetings and solemn
Sabbat-" 	hellish Randezvouzes," Cotton Mather justly
terms them-in 	a field not far from the village, and
sometimes in a house belonging to a warlock who lived
there. 	Here they celebrated a Sabbat on the very day
a 	Public 	Fast 	was 	being 	kept 	on 	account 	of 	the
sorceries and devilment which were so sorely plaguing
the countryside. 	There were " Meetings, Feastings,
Dancings " in other places as well, and a number of
novices were baptized into this horrid society in the
river at Newbury 	Falls.
At the risk of some slight repetition I have thought
it well to give a 	catena extending over 	a 	century
(1579-1692) 	to show beyond all quibble or question
that the English witches assembled at set times and
in set places for their formal Sabbats where every
species of wickedness and devil-worship prevailed, and
that there was in fine amongst them a definite and
disciplined organization of the infernal cult of Satanism,
which is one and the same the whole world over. 	It
would not be difficult, moreover, to carry on the chain
of evidence throughout the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries down to the London Sabbats of the present
day.
I believe the point has been raised that the English
Sabbats were but small gatherings in comparison with
the large assemblies in Germany, in the Pyrenees, at
Mohra in Sweden, in the Val Camonica, at Benevento,
and other places. 	It is true that the witches flocked
in crowds to certain notorious centres, and when 	a
district was widely infected with Satanism naturally the
covens would be more numerous, 	Yet we hear of no

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 3 I
less than twenty attending 	a 	Sabbat in the second
case 	of 	the 	Lancashire 	witches ; 	sixty-five 	were
present at the Sabbat in John Newton's house, Riding
Mill ; whilst at the notorious Sabbat at North Berwick
church there assembled two hundred devil-worshippers,
although, of course, strictly speaking this is not an
English example. 	To-day also there are sometimes
as many as twenty-five or thirty at 	a 	Sabbat. 	No
doubt in villages such as Brewham the coven was few,
but 	the 	Wincanton society numbered 	thirteen 	and
perhaps more. 	Similar proportions seem to have pre-
vailed 	(as we 	might 	reasonably 	expect) upon 	the
continent.
The next detail which presents itself for inquiry is,
how the witches reached the Sabbat ? 	The answer
seems at first glance simple enough : 	they ride, they
drive, they go on foot, travelling in whatever way is
most convenient. 	When Agnes Sampson, who lived
at Keith, 	attended 	the midnight 	Sabbat at North
Berwick church, " she passed there on horseback, con-
veyed by her godson, called John 	Cooper." 	When
the Pendle witches assembled at Malking Tower, an
extremely isolated and ancient stronghold which stood
on the further slope of the high conical-shaped hill
which shuts in Rough Lee glen to the north-east, they
" gotten on Horsebacke ", some mounting steeds of
one colour, some of another. 	When Ann Armstrong,
a servant of the Fowlers at Burtree House, near Stocks-
field-on-Tyne, was taken to the Sabbat at Riding Mill
Bridge End she saw the witches arrive on horseback.
Their leader, whom they spoke of as " their protector ",
was " a long black man riding on a bay galloway ",
in other words a garran, a small stout Scotch horse.

132 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
When the orgy was over the whole crew took the saddle
again for home with their protector leading the party.
Major Thomas Weir, the Edinburgh warlock, and
his sister Jean 	Weir, used to drive to the Sabbats at
Musselburgh in a coach, and for more than a hundred
years 	after 	the 	execution 	of 	these 	two 	miserable
witches it was said that the rattling and thundering of a
heavy coach could be heard 	at midnight over the
cobbles as the phantom equipage whirled along by
black steeds of hell passed swiftly down the Bow to
halt 	before Weir's 	horrible 	house and 	then vanish
in a flame of fire. 	It is probable that many hauntings
by spectral coaches are to be explained thus, namely
that the apparitions are those of wizards who were
wont thus to travel to the Sabbat and whose foul
ghosts still cling to the route they covered in life on
evil bent again and again. 	A chiteau not far from
Morlaix in Brittany is fearfully haunted in this way.
On certain anniversaries the windows of the empty
house are illuminated from within as by numberless
candles, the 	old 	cracked 	bell 	in 	the 	turret 	clangs
harshly, and up the long drive there speeds an ancient
coach within which are seated four shadowy figures.
These are said to be a certain seigneur, lord of the
manor in the early decades of the eighteenth century,
his son and two grandsons, all of whom were Satanists,
handing down the infernal tradition from scion to
scion of their accursed line.
Early in the sixteenth century a gang of Satanists
made their headquarters at Yarmouth, and it is plain
that 	they 	were protected 	by 	certain great 	persons
living in that district who belonged to the evil society.
In 	the 	reign 	of 	Elizabeth 	six 	Yarmouth 	witches,

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 3 3
including 	Elizabeth 	Butcher, 	a 	very 	active 	devil's
agent, were hanged, 	and 	under 	Charles 	I 	another
five 	witches 	were 	executed. 	Caister 	Castle 	near
Yarmouth was formerly visited by a phantom coach
which drove round the courtyard of the castle and
halted, whereupon a number of dark muffled figures
seem to emerge silently from various doorways and
corners, and enter the vehicle. The door was slammed
to with a horrible noise, the crack of a whip was heard,
and the six headless black horses set off at full gallop.
No 	doubt 	these 	were 	the 	spectres of 	the 	wizards
doomed 	endlessly 	to 	repeat 	their journey 	to 	the
unhallowed orgies of the Sabbat.
A 	similar coach haunts 	the 	roads 	near 	Langley
Hall, Durham. 	Although it is true that many cases ot
witchcraft have not come to light in this district it
may be noted that in January, I 65 1-1 652, two notorious
warlocks were executed at Durham, and it is more than
probable that the organization had secretly taken root
there, whilst the boggart coach is the phantom of that
which was wont to convey certain sorcerers to their
diabolic rendezvous.
Witches sometimes go on foot to the Sabbat, and
this usually happens when the place of their assembly
is not very distant from their homes. 	Thus Bernard
of Como, a famous Dominican scholar, remarks that
when witches are to attend the Sabbat at some spot
hard by their dwellings, " they proceed thither on foot
conversing as they go." 	When a Sabbat was celebrated
in the field of I.ongchamois, the witches of Orcieres,
about a quarter of a league away, walked thither in
a party. 	The Wincanton witches walked to the Sabbat
held on the common near Trister Gate, a bare couple

I 3 4 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
of miles away, whilst for Mother Style of Stoke Trister
it can only have been a matter of a few hundred yards.
A 	young Satanist, Isaac de Queyran, told Pierre
De Lancre, the Bordeaux judge, that witches who dwelt
at some distance flew home from the Sabbat through
the air, whilst those whose houses were not far away
returned on foot. 	De Lancre comments : 	" It is truly
as criminal and abominable for a Sorcerer to go to the
Sabbat on foot as to be voluntarily conveyed thither
by the Devil."
In all the above cases (save truly in the hints given
by de Queyran) 	the method 	of proceeding to the
Sabbat proves perfectly commonplace and usual, but
the witches also employed other means which were
extraordinary and indeed preternatural. 	The popular
imagination has seized upon one of these and often
exaggerates it 	into something surpassingly fantastic
and 	bizarre, 	for 	although 	the 	witch 	is 	universally
credited with the power to fly through the air mounted
upon a besom or some kind of stick it is remarkable
in the face of so general and picturesque a belief to
find that the confessions avowing this actual mode of
aerial transport are comparatively few.
None the less it is significant that the belief in the
nocturnal transport through the air of sorcerers, either
bent 	on 	some malefic 	business 	or 	to 	attend 	their
assemblies, is practically universal, and exists among
savage races as strongly as amongst civilized people.
In the Congo, for example, members of the secret
society Bwiti during certain wizard ceremonies rise
from the ground to a height of several feet during the
space of a quarter of an hour. 	The Indians of North
America credited their pow-wows with the faculty of

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 3 5
raising their bodies from the ground for an appreciable
length 	of 	time, 	and 	a 	French 	missionary, 	Father
Papetard 	told Dr. Imbert-Gourbeyre, that whilst at
Oregon he had himself seen more than once native
warlocks levitate themselves two or three feet from the
ground and walk upon the top of the blades of long
pampas grasses without bending the tender panicles.
In Australia, too, the native tribes such as the Boandik,
West Arunta, Kurnai, and others are perfectly familiar
with the aerial transport of magicians, who are said
to be conveyed by ghosts, that is to say (as we know)
by demons. 	In one of the tribes of the Wotjobaluk
6 6
group an ancient seeress not infrequently 	went up
aloft, being supported, as it was believed, by ghosts
[devils], from whom she gleaned information as to
the dead ". 	This is related together with many other
striking examples by A. W. Howitt in his work on The
Natiue Tribes of South-East Australia.
It stands to reason that Satan, the ape of God, must
imitate 	and 	caricature 	the 	divine phenomenon 	of
mystical levitation.
According to the great Oxford 	English Dictionaly the
word 	" levitation " does not date back before 	I 875.
It was first employed in England, and in earliest use
with reference to spiritualism (spiritism). 	Levitation
means that the human body is able under certain
conditions to be raised from the ground, and to remain
for a longer or shorter space of time suspended in the
air without any visible support, and not infrequently
to move to and fro in the air without the apparent
or traceable action of any physical forces.
In hagiography this is a recognized and not in-
frequent 	occurrence, 	and 	very many 	instances are

136 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
noted by the Bollandists in their immense work on the
Lives of the Saints. 	I t is not too much to say that
some hundreds of such cases have been known. 	There
are the Scriptural examples of Enoch, Elijah, Habakkuk,
S. Philip the Deacon, and the transports of Our Lord
Himself, Whose earthly life was consummated in that
supreme levitation we name the Ascension. 	There
are the cases of early Saints, Saint Mary Magdalene,
Saint Antony the Great, Saint Mary of Egypt. 	There
are the modern 	traditions 	of such great 	names 	as
Saint Dominic, Saint Francis, Saint Bonaventura, Saint
Thomas Aquinas, Saint 	Catherine 	of 	Siena, 	Saint
Peter of Alcantara, Saint Teresa, Saint Philip Neri-
to name almost at random only a very few. 	I n the
nineteenth century we have that 	glorious visionary
and mystic Anne Catherine Emmerich ; 	the Italian
Maria Domenica Barbagli ; the Cur6 dYArs; Mary
of Jesus 	who died 	in 	1862, and 	whose levitations
formed the subject of a report in a bulletin of the
Socie'tt 	des 	Sciences psychiques ; 	the 	Carmelite 	Sister
Mary of Jesus 	Crucified who died at the Carmel of
Bethlehem in 1878 ; an ecstatica living near Nantes,
Marie Julie Jahenny, who is still alive.
Perhaps the two most famous examples of levitation
are 	Saint Alphonsus Liguori 	and 	Saint Joseph 	of
Copertino. 	Some of the raptures and 	upliftings of
Saint Alphonsus were experienced in public, as in the
church of Foggia in December, 1745, when as he was
preaching he was raised to a height from the floor in
the presence of a crowded congregation who could not
refrain from crying aloud : " A miracle ! a miracle ! "
With regard to the FranciscanJoseph of Copertino,who
died at the Conventual house at Osimo in September,

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	'37
I 663, his levitations and ecstatic flights through the
air from one place to another were so frequent that
the Bull of canonization says no Saint can be 	com-
pared to him in this respect. 	His raptures in saying
Mass were of daily occurrence, and for no less than
thirty-five years his 	Superiors had 	to 	exercise the
greatest 	caution, 	requiring 	him 	on 	certain 	feasts,
especially those of Our Lady, to say Mass in a private
oratory so that the religious " should not be disturbed
by the concourse of the vulgar ", many of whom came
more from curiosity (it is to be feared) rather than
devotion to see this marvellous mystic at the altar.
The evidence for the levitations of Saint Alphonsus
and SaintJoseph (as indeed for very many other holyper-
sons) has been sifted with the utmost thoroughness, and
there is no room whatsoever left for doubt or question.
In this connexion we cannot neglect to remark upon
mediumistic 	levitations, 	one 	of 	the 	most 	famous
examples being the case of Daniel Dunglas Home, of
whom Sir William Crookes bore witness : " On three
separate occasions have I seen him raised completely
from the floor of the room. . . . There are at least a
hundred recorded instances of Mr. Home's rising from
the ground. . . . The accumulated testimony establish-
ing Mr. 	Home's 	levitations is overwhelming." 	In
November, 1868, Lord Adare and Lord Lindsay saw
Home raised four or five feet from the ground. 	At
Ashley House, Home was carried out at one window
and borne in through another at a height of 70 feet
from the ground. 	Once at Adare Abbey, he floated
swiftly for a space of twelve yards through the air. In a
garden at 	Stockton he was aerially transported for
more than a hundred feet.

I 38 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
William 	Stainton 	Moses 	was 	levitated 	six 	feet ;
Eusapia Palladino, on occasion from some inches to
fully five feet ; Mrs. French, a couple of feet ; Maria
Vollhart, one foot ; whilst the Brazilian Carlos Mira-
beIli even when fastened to an armchair was levitated
in the presence of several acutely observant members
of 	the 	Academia 	Cesare Lombroso, 	remaining 	for
several minutes suspended twelve feet from the ground
so that the witnesses could pass and repass under the
body tied to the chair. 	(It is by no means unusual for
objects in contact with 	the levitated 	person 	to be
similarly influenced by the phenomenon.) 	At Santos
Mirabelli experienced levitation in the street, being
uplifted from a motor car for about three minutes.
Now angels, be they blessed spirits or demons, have
the power to move matter. 	The levitation of sorcerers
is effected by the agency of evil forces, devils who
bestow this favour upon an auxiliary and a companion.
Dr. John 	L. Nevius, of Chefoo, who was for forty
years a missionary to the Chinese, in his study Demon
c c
Possession relates how certain 	Chinese wizards 	are
carried by invisible power from place to place. 	They
ascend to a height of twenty or fifty feet, and are carried
to a distance of four or five li ". 	(A li is one-third of a
mile.) 	The same phenomenon occurs in the case of
European witches, who have been and are borne by the
invisible power of Satan to the Sabbat, or it may be
on some other errand of mischief and destruction.
Paul Grilland in his treatise On Witchcraft, published
in 1533, speaks of a trial of a sorceress at Rome seven
years before, at which he was present, and it was
asserted that she flew in the air after she had anointed
her limbs with a certain magic liniment. Some witches,

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	'39
says Boguet, use a mysterious ointment, and others use
none. 	" Before they go to the Sabbat," writes Guazzo,
" the witches anoint themselves on some part of their
bodies with an unguent made from various foul and
filthy ingredients, but chiefly from murdered children ;
and so anointed they are carried away on a cowl-staff,
or a broom, or a reed, a cleft stick, or a distaff, or even
a shovel, which things they ride."
Dr. Johann 	Weyer, in his treatise on witches, has
transcribed certain formulae for the magical ointment.
He tells how the witches boil the fat of babes in a
brazen cauldron. 	They scum this thickly, and make it
into a kind of grease, kneading into it a commixture of
hemlock, aconite, poplar leaves, and soot. 	Another
recipe 	is : 	Cowbane, 	sweet 	flag, 	cinquefoil, 	bat's
blood, belladonna, and oil. 	There are, Weyer adds,
other ointments, but the essential ingredients remain
the same in all.
Collette 	Dumont, 	a 	Guernsey 	witch, 	who 	was
executed in I 617, confessed that the Devil had given
her 	a 	certain black 	ointment, with 	which, 	having
stripped, she rubbed her body all over, and then again
dressed and went out of doors when she was im-
mediately 	borne 	through 	the 	air 	with 	incredible
velocity to the appointed place for the Sabbat. 	This
was sometimes near the Torteval parish churchyard,
and sometimes on the seashorehard by Rocquaine Castle.
It is related that a certain Guernsey lady of St. Pierre-
du-Bois becoming very suspicious of the long hours of
retirement her husband passed in his own apartments
was induced by curiosity to watch him. 	Accordingly
one day she concealed herself in the room. He entered,
and stripping himself naked anointed his limbs with a

I4.O 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
certain ointment, repeating the words va et vient, 	He
then seemed to disappear from sight. After a while she
came forth, and went through the same ceremony,
when in a twink she found herself on the summit of
Pleinmont in the midst of a large company. 	A table
was spread with costly viands, of which some who were
present courteously invited her to partake. 	Crossing
herself for her grace, she said Au nom de Dieu soit, Amen.
No sooner had she spoken than all had disappeared,
and the only signs of any beings having approached the
spot were the recent marks of cloven feet which seemed
to have scorched and trampled the sward in every
direction.
In the Malleus MalecfiGamrn it is explained at length
how witches having anointed either themselves or some
chair or broomstick with the devil's ointment can be
and are transported up through the air about their
master's business. 	Sometimes also they are carried on
animals, which are not true animals but devils in that
form. 	The witches too not unseldom appear to be
metamorphosed into animals, especially cats. And this
is merely glamour, a trick of the devil, who, Saint
Thomas tells us, can entirely confuse and cheat the
senses, so that a witch is persuaded she is changed into
a cat, and those of her society see her as a cat, whereas
it is all illusion.
" The commonest practice of all witches is to fly up
through the chimney. 	If anyone objects that chimneys
are too small and narrow, or raises any other difficulties,
he must know that by virtue of that Demonolatry which
makes all things monstrous and portentous, they are
first bidden to exceed their natural limits ; and more-
over the matter becomes more intelligible when it is

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	'4'
remembered that the chimneys are square and wide in
all peasant's cottages, and it is from this class that the
vile rabble 	of sorcery is mostly derived." 	In his
account of the Swedish witches of I 669-1670, who were
conveyed to Blockula, the place of the Sabbat, by
diabolic agencies, Anthony Horneck says that, " Being
asked how they could go with their Bodies through
Chimneys and broken panes of Glass, they said, that
the Devil did first remove all that might hinder them
in their flight, and so they had room enough to go."
During the trial of the Somersetshire witch, Julian
Cox, at the Taunton assizes, 1663, a " Witness swore
that she had seen Julian Cox fly into her own Chamber
Window in her full proportion, and that she very well
knew her, and was sure it was she."
From these cases it is certain that witches are levitated
and carried in this way to the Sabbat. The ointment is
actually of no effect per se, and the devil can (and often
will) transport sorcerers to the Sabbat without any
smearing with unguent or lotions. 	The ointment is
employed as a sort of ceremonial subterfuge, since the
demon by means of this empty ritual impresses a sense
of his own power upon his worshippers, and thus he
ministers to his accursed pride. 	Moreover the oint-
ment is a mockery of the Holy Chrism which is used
in certain Sacraments as well as at the Coronation of
a King. 	In the same way the staff or broom is just an
empty adjuvant, a common object which the devil
causes to be utilized in these mysterious locomotions
as a dark and infernal symbol, infusing as it were
something of a ritual and liturgical nature into his
beastly orgies.
In connexion with, and actually 	as an argument

I4* 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
against, the levitation and aerial journeys of witches
there is often cited a document conveniently known
as the Canon Episcopi, which is found in the collec-
tions On Ecclesiastical Discipline, a manual for the use
of the bishop in the course of diocesan visitations, put
together by the famous Benedictine Abbot Regino of
Priim about the year 906, but which although doubtless
very much older than Regino's own day certainly does
not date back to the First orthodox plenary Synod of
Ancyra (now Angora, Asia Minor), which was held in
314, and to which body it was rather unaccountably
referred by many older commentators and legists.
The text of this much debated and highly debatable
section 	runs 	as 	follows : 	" This 	too 	must by no
means be passed over that certain utterly abandoned
women, turning aside to follow Satan, being seduced
by the illusions and phantasmical shows of demons
firmly believe and openly profess that in the dead of
night they ride upon certain beasts along with the
pagan goddess Diana and a countless horde of women,
and that in those silent hours they fly over vast tracts
of country and obey her as their mistress, whilst on
certain other nights they are summoned to do her
homage 	and 	pay 	her 	service." 	For 	some reason
Burchard 	added 	Herodias 	to 	Diana, 	and 	the 	two
names were maintained in later recensions. 	The canon
continues to say that an immense number of people,
deluded by this false opinion, take these things to be
very true, and thus fall away from the Christian faith
since they are persuaded 	that 	something having 	a
divine nature and ineffable power exists other than the
one true God. 	In fine they lapse into paganism.
We must not read more into the Canon Episcopi

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I43
than it precisely states. 	The 	" abandoned women "
whom it so sternly censures are not witches flying to a
Sabbat, but poor self-deceived creatures whose guilt
consists in honouring, 	trusting to, obeying, and 	(so
they deem) accompanying as her handmaids a heathen
goddess in her nightly coursing through the air. 	They
sin, moreover, in stubbornly maintaining 	that 	these
evil fantasies and fables, inspired by the Father of Lies,
are actual experiences and events. 	These delusions,
no doubt, are very bad and even idolatrous. 	But there
is no sorcery. 	There has been no pact with Satan.
There is no working of Black Magic, no casting of
malefic spells, no killing men and cattle.
Bishop Peter Binsfield treats the whole question of
the Canon Episcopi at length and clearly shows that it
is not aimed at witches and the midnight transvections
of sorcerers to the Sabbat, but that quite another sect
of deluded women is intended. 	His arguments are too
lengthy to recapitulate here, but they are conclusive.
Later in the seventeenth century when discussing
the levitation of witches the learned Jacques D'Autun
openly challenged the authority of the Canon Episcopi.
He pertinently inquired at what Council of Ancyra
was this law laid down ? 	He quoted the authority of
Saint Augustine to show that the historical Councils
of Ancyra must be deemed irregular if they are to be
regarded as having any higher status than a Synod, and
some even lie under the suspicion of Arianism. 	I n any
case it was not 	a 	General 	Council of the Church
assembled under Papal Authority, and accordingly it
could not promulgate a dogma. 	This Canon has in
fact, he concludes, come to serve as a shield for the
scoffer and agnostic.

'44 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
The actual ceremonies of the Sabbat at which the
members of 	the 	coven 	have 	now 	arrived 	vary 	so
much (as has indeed already been pointed out) that
although the essential features of Satan's synagogue
are intrinsically the 	same 	at 	all 	times 	and 	in 	all
countries it is no easy matter to give a general account
of assemblies which were marked by such confessed
and multitudinous details. 	This has been commented
upon 	by 	all 	the 	demonologists, 	and 	is 	especially
emphasized by De Lancre who made a particular
study of the Sabbat as it was held in the South of
France at the beginning of the seventeenth century,
and who obtained his information at first-hand from
the scores of witches he examined.
The 	liturgy 	of 	darkness, 	indeed, 	is 	of its 	very
essence 	opposed 	to 	the 	comely 	worship 	of 	God,
wherein, as the Apostle bids, all things are to be done
" decently and in order ".
The Sabbat is always conducted by 	a 	President
or Chief, who is at 	the more important and larger
meetings the Grand Master of the Satanists, at lesser
assemblies the 	coven-master 	(who may, 	of course,
be also the 	Grand 	Master) 	or some other official.
Not 	infrequently an intelligence of evil, 	a 	demon,
assumes corporeal form and presents himself for the
adoration of his besotted followers.
The proceedings commence with 	the ceremonial
homage paid to the President by the company, for as
the witches told 	Remy 	there was always one who
was invested with the chief authority on the night
of their assembly.
The 	witches 	worship 	him 	by 	genuflections and
kneeling ; by bowing the body ; by holding up their

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 4 5
hands 	as 	in prayer ; 	by 	grotesque 	and 	ridiculous
gestures ; by uttering aloud the most horrid blasphemies
and imprecations ; by calling upon the demon as god.
When they approach 	to adore him 	" Sometimes
they bend their knees 	as 	suppliants, and sometimes
stand with their backs turned, 	and sometimes kick
their legs high up so that their heads are bent back
and their chins point to the sky ".
At the trial of Louis Gaufridi at Aix in I 6 I I amplest
details 	concerning this 	homage 	were 	forthcoming.
" The hagges and witches, who are people of a sordid
and base condition, are the first that 	come to adore
the 	Prince 	of 	the 	Synagogue, 	who 	is 	Lucifer's
lieutenant, and he that now holdeth that place is Lewes
Gaufridy," that is to say he was Grand Master of the
district. 	" Next 	they goe and 	worship the 	Dive11
who is seated in a Throne like a Prince." 	This shows
that not unseldom a demon in corporeal form was
present at these Sabbats.
Collette Dumont, a Guernsey witch, confessed that
the 	Sabbat commenced with 	the adoration of the
Devil, and Isebell Le Moigne, a member of the same
coven, 	described 	how 	the 	demon 	compelled 	his
votaries to go down on their knees before him, adoring
him 	and 	calling upon him with the words 	" Our
great Master, help us ! "
Mention of the obscene ritual kiss, 	" the 	kiss of
shame," 	the gage of fealty, is universal, and it is
clear that this ceremony was invariably insisted upon
and most scrupulously exacted. 	Delrio writes how
the orgies are governed by a demon, Lord of the
Sabbat, who often appears in some monstrous form
as a great he-goat with flaming eyes and the whole

1 	4 	~ 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
company in token of abject submission kiss his funda-
ment. 	As 	a 	sign of completest servitude, remarks
Ludwig Elich, at their meetings the witches kiss the
devil's posterior. 	Shadwell puts it bluntly enough :
All 	kiss 	the 	Devil's 	Arse. 	Upon 	this 	he 	glosses :
" Kissing the Devil's Buttocks is part of the homage
they pay the Devil, as Bodin says Doctor Edlin did,
a 	Sorbon 	Doctor." 	Guillaume 	Edeline, 	Prior of St.
Germain-en-Laye, was executed in 1453 as a wizard.
He confessed that he had done homage to Satan who
appeared in the shape of a ram by kissing his buttocks
with great reverence.
In 	1393 Walter Langton, Bishop of Coventry and
treasurer of Edward 	I, was accused of sorcery and
of paying homage to Satan in this way. 	Amongst other
accusations he was commonly defamed and delated for
the crime of worshipping the Devil by kissing his pos-
terior, and also " it is reported that he hath had frequent
colloquies with evil spirits ". 	A sentence passed upon
a coven of exceptionally evil and dangerous sorcerers
at Avignon in 1582 details their crimes, when amongst
other 	charges it 	is 	said : 	" You 	did 	worship 	the
Prince of Devils in deed and word as very God, and
(fie, for very shame !) 	with 	the greatest reverence
you did kiss with sacrilegious mouth his most foul and
beastly posterior." 	When the Sabbat was held at the
haunted church of North Berwick in 	1590 the Devil
awaited the arrival of the witches " in the habit or
likeness of a man, and seeing that they tarried over-
long he at their coming enjoined them all to a penance
which was that they should kiss his Buttocks in sign
of duty to him, which being put over the Pulpit bare,
every one did as he had enjoined them ". 	Another

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 4 7
account has it : 	" Now efter that the devil had endit
his admonitions he cam down out of the pulpit, and
caused all the company to come and kiss his ers quhilk
they said was cauld lyk yce." 	A French witch, Jeanne
Bosdeau, in 	1594, confessed to the Bordeaux judges,
how at a 	rendezvous of more than sixty 	Satanists
at 	Puy-de-Dbme 	a 	black 	goatish 	form 	presided.
" They kiss'd 	his Backside, and pray'd that he would
help them." 	A very rare tract of the fourteenth century
tells how the 	Waldenses in their secret synagogues
adored a demon cat, whom they kissed under his tail.
The ceremonial offering and 	burning 	of candles
at the Sabbat is often met with, and indeed these
candles were something more than symbolic and a
parody of the candles blessed by the Church since
they were required for the very practical purpose of
affording light at these midnight rendezvous. 	Guazzo
tells us how the witches of North 	Italy presented
" pitch black candles " to the devil ; and BarthClemy
Minguet, a French warlock, in his description of the
Sabbat says that when the company went forward to
adore their Master all of them were holding a pitch
candle of black wax in their hands. 	These burned
with a blue flame on account of the sulphurous material
with which they were compounded. 	At the meeting
of 	the Scotch witches at North 	Berwick 	round the
pulpit whence the devil addressed his followers were
set numbers of black tapers which burned 	smokily
and with a blue light. 	Old Mother Styles told the
Somersetshire magistrates that when she and her sister
hags met the Man in Black " he delivers some Wax
Candles 	like 	little Torches, which 	they 	give back
again at parting ".

1 4 ~ 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
It has already been pointed 	out that 	the 	devil-
worshippers are greedy to draw others into the snare,
and ever ready by most treacherous and foulest means
to proselytize and betray others to their own damna-
tion, activities which commend them mightily in the
eyes of their master. 	When neophytes were received
into this horrid society at the Sabbat the performance
was 	conducted 	with 	much 	grotesque 	ritual 	and
blasphemy. 	There was the formal pact ; the repudia-
tion of all good ; the mock baptism with the infernal
sponsors ; the acceptance of the duties to be engaged
in a11 mischief ; the vows of silence and secrecy ; the
promise to recruit with diligence.
Instructions were also given to the society ; death
and destruction were plotted ; 	plans were discussed
and developed. 	Thus we find the North 	Benvick
devil (the Grand Master) harangues his covens from
the pulpit ; the Pendle witches assemble at Malking
Tower to contrive the deaths of their enemies ; Alice
Duke, Ann Bishop, Mother Penny, and the rest of
the Somersetshire gang are instructed in the art of
moulding wax 	pictures 	and 	transfixing them 	with
thorns and pins ; spells were taught orally ; 	some-
times drugs and poisons were confected ; 	the witch
midwives learned the practice of abortion and the
quality of emmenagogic savin. 	If these failed they
resorted to surer swifter means. 	A 	witch who was
executed at Dann in Switzerland " confessed that she
had killed more than forty children, by sticking a
needIe through the crown of their heads into their
brains, as they came out of the womb." 	Another witch-
midwife of Strassburg said that she had killed more
children than she could count.

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I49
Not infrequently high politics were the question at
these Sabbats, and the more powerful witches strove
to decide the fate of countries and the lot of kings. 	It
is undeniable that many of the wars which have con-
vulsed nations, the broils and unrest, the revolutions
that trouble and vex the world to-day, are in the
first place organized by and energetically assisted by
Satanists. 	For " rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft ".
Lambert Daneau writes that Satan assembles his
subjects at these devilish synagogues in order that he
may examine them and understand with what diligence
and 	success they 	have 	carried out their duties of
harm and hurt to man and beast, whom they have
injured, and what deaths they have contrived. The
witch whose deeds are vilest and most abominable is the
most highly honoured and applauded. 	Those, on the
contrary, 	who have done no 	evil, 	are beaten and
punished.
Thus Isobel Gowdie, the Scotch witch, gave a very
ample account of how the devil or Grand Master
tyrannized over the local coven. 	" He would beat and
buffet us very sore," 	she complained. 	" We were
beaten if we were absent from any gathering, or if we
neglected to do anything he had commanded us."
When 	Isebell 	Le Moigne, the Guernsey witch, on
one occasion refused to accompany the familiar to
James 	Gallienne's 	house, he returned to her in the
shape of a man and bruised her severely about the
face and head.
Strict discipline was observed among the Vaudois
witches of Arras, 	and when one of the coven, Jean
Tacquet, a rich 	eschevin, was minded to withdraw
his allegiance from Satan, the demon forced him to

I 5 O 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
continue it 	by 	thrashing him 	most cruelly with 	a
bull's 	pizzle. 	As in the days of Remy, the Satanists
even now bind themselves by a solemn oath never
to betray their confederates. Any possible treachery to
the infernal society constitutes, of course, the gravest
offence in their eyes, and the modern Satanists stop
at nothing to silence a traitor. 	To-day many members
of 	these 	hellish 	leagues 	are 	only 	prevented 	from
breaking away through fear. It is, as we might expect,
a system of terrorism. 	Death is the penalty for any
defection from 	their 	ranks, 	for 	naturally 	they 	are
extremely reluctant that any hint of their dark secrets
shall be revealed to the world. 	Nor are those whose
aim 	it 	is 	to 	engineer 	universal 	anarchy 	and 	red
revolution likely to shrink from a mere casual murder.
The business (so to speak) of the Sabbat having
been dispatched, there followed the pleasures, which,
as may well be supposed, were of the foulest and
grossest kind. 	They 	mainly 	consisted 	in 	dancing
and feasting. 	Sometimes they dance before eating and
sometimes after the repast. 	The dances are generally
performed in a circle and always round to the left,
withershins, nor are they graceful and elegant move-
ments, but the most erratic and ungainly caperings,
jiggings and leapings, which prove wearisome beyond
words, so what is ordinarily a pastime and a source
of lawful amusement becomes a labour and 	a toil.
Nor 	will 	the 	demon 	excuse any from the 	dance ;
those who are old and torpid he drives on until per-
force they endeavour to stir their limbs, awkwardly
and painfully enough, no doubt. 	So the notorious
warlock parson, Mr. Gideon Penman, showed himself
particularly active during the Sabbat rites, and " was

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 5 '
in the rear in all their dances, and beat up all those
that were slow ".
The witches, according to Boguet, dance in a ring
back to back, and he adds : " Sometimes too, although
seldom, they dance in couples, and then one partner is
here, another there, for always everything is higgledy-
piggledy, in rank riot 	and confusion." 	De Lancre
writes of the witches' revels that they "only dance three
kinds of brawls. 	. . . The first is It la Bohhienne . . .
the second with quick trippings : these are the round
dances ". 	In the third the dancers were placed one
behind another in a long straight line. 	The brawls
(French le b r a d ) was an old French dance resembling
a cotillion.
In 	Belgium 	this 	witches' 	dance 	was 	known 	as
Pavana.
During the 	Fian 	trial 	Agnes 	Sampson confessed
that 	at 	North 	Berwick 	church 	above 	a 	hundred
persons 	" danced along the Kirk-yard, 	Geillis Duncan
playing on a 	Trump 	[Jew's 	harp], 	and 	John 	Fian
mussiled [masked] led the Ring ". 	As they danced,
hand in hand, they were all singing with one voice,
Cummer, go ye before, cummr, go ye,
Gifye will not go before, cummcr, let me.
" These confessions made the King [James 	I, 	then
James VI of Scotland] in a wonderful admiration, and
he sent for the said Geillis Duncan, who, upon the like
trump, 	did play the said dance before the King's
Majesty."
The Capuchin Jacques D'Autun in his encyclopzdic
treatise on magic (The Folly of 	the Wise and the Wisdom
of 	the Simple) speaks of sorcerers who 	gyrate 	hand
in hand in a circle as if inspired by maniac frenzy.

I 5 * 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
He further remarks that whereas a dance should be
distinguished by propriety and decorum, by a certain
stateliness or it may be by 	lively frolic, the dances
of witches 	are uncouth and ugly, extravagant and
lewd. 	Such are the dances of savages, and it is worth
remark that among the North American Indians there
is but one word to express both dancing and coitus.
Meanwhile the whole company are whooping and
howling, hissing and yelling, in an access of horrid
rage that is akin to an absolute frenzy.
There is evidence that various instruments accom-
panied the dance. Violins, flutes, tambourines, citterns,
hautboys, and in Scotland the pipes made music at
the Sabbat. 	Those of the witches who had any skill
were called upon to perform, 	and very often they
obliged the company with favourite airs of a vulgar
kind, 	but 	the 	concert 	always 	ended 	in 	hideous
cacophony and bestial clamour. 	In North Italy the
covens were wont to 	" sing in honour of the devil
the most obscene songs to the sound of a bawdy pipe
and tabor played by one seated in the fork of a tree ".
George Sinclar in his Satan's 	Invisible 	World Discovered
says : 	" A reverend Minister told me, that one who
was 	the Devils Piper, 	a 	wizzard 	confest 	to 	him,
that at a Ball of dancing, the Foul spirit taught him
a Baudy song to sing and play, as it were this night,
and ere two days past all the Lads and Lasses of the
town 	were 	lilting 	it 	throw 	the 	street. 	I t 	were
abomination to rehearse it." 	At Tranent in 1659 one
man witch and eight women witches confessed that
they had merry meetings with Satan, enlivened with
music and dancing. 	John Douglas, the warlock, was
the piper, and the two favourite airs of the Grand

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 5 3
Master were " Kilt thy coat, Maggie, and come thy
way with me ", and " Hulie the bed will fa' ".
At Aix the witches danced " at the sound of Viols
and other instruments, which are brought thither by
those that were skilled to play upon them ". None the
less the sorcerers and hags joined in a kind of howling
music with raucous cries imitating song. The Somerset
witches of the Wincanton covens said that " The Man
in black, sometimes playes on a Pipe or Cittern, and
the company dance ".
The music in fine was of many kinds, varying from
harmonies 	" softly 	sweet, 	in 	Lydian 	measures ",
voluptuous and venereal, to the most horrid cacophony
resembling the modern jazz, wherein (be it noted) some
acute observers have shrewdly scented the devil's own
orchestra. 	Fr. 	Philip De 	Ternant, 	writing in 	The
Universe, 	I 8th August, I 933, justly and.in good time
condemns the " Voodoo Cult imported into our Dance
Halls without protest ", and points out how young
people are being corrupted by " the roll and the thump
of the Voodoo Drum " which " responsive to subtle
manipulation 	not 	far 	removed 	from 	black 	magic,
plays a most hypnotic part " in the obscene, murderous,
and wholly diabolical Voodoo cult. Quite unwittingly,
no doubt, to-day many dancers are exercising their
steps to the music of the witches. 	" Dreary pushing and
pulling about the floor with almost aimless steps have
now taken the place of dancing."
It 	was 	not without sound reason that Toussaint
lYOuverturewhen declaring the independence of Haiti
and giving the Island a constitution forbade the Voodoo
drum with its syncopation and sub-human appeal.
The 	accursed 	thing 	has 	found 	a 	most 	profligate

I54 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
and 	tortuous entry in our midst, and unless recog-
nized and sternly checked the poison will infect, rot,
and 	fester, for such is its deliberate and appointed
aim.
As the music of the witches, always evil, always
unclean, 	varied 	in many 	modes so the feasts and
banquetings of the witches were very dissimilar and
differed widely both in their meats, their appoint-
ments, and also as regards the actual spots where they
took place. 	According to the climate and customs of
the country and the seasons of the year the Sabbat
with its feast might be held under cover or in the open.
Thus, as we should expect, in Italy and in France the
Sabbat was frequently celebrated out of doors ; 	in
Guernsey the feast was usually spread on the sea-shore
near Rocquaine Castle ; in Sweden the witches met
at a 	" place or house " under a 	roof; 	the Scotch
covens assembled for the junketings 	in outbuildings,
farms, in 	remote 	and 	deserted chapels ; 	in 	warm
weather the Riding Mill witches forgathered at the
bridge end and on the moors, in colder seasons at
Riding House, in a cellar or a barn ; the Somerset-
shire witches made their rendezvous at Anne Bishop's
cottage, and in the summer on the common hard by
the village, or in a clearing of Selwood Forest.
In the etching of the Sabbat orgies by Jan Ziarnko,
which 	illustrates De 	Lancre's 	great 	work 	( I 6 I 2),
witches and familiars are grouped round a table, and
Spranger (1710) presents the Sabbat in very similar
detail. 	In both these the horrid banqueters are seen
eagerly devouring the limbs of a roasted babe. 	An old
woodcut (1489) shows three witches seated at a board
replenished with food and wine, whilst Guazzo depicts

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I55
a numerous company at tables duly covered with neat
napery and heaped with all sorts of dishes, which are
busily served by a retinue of inferior demons. Some-
times, indeed, the cloths appear to have been spread
on the ground, picnic fashion.
The accounts of the feast vary from one extreme to
the other. 	The Milanese witches said that " all who
have sat down to such tables are bound to allow that
the feasts are foul and stinking, so that they nauseate
the most ravenously hungry stomach. All sorts of food
may be seen, but so vile and dirty and ill-dressed that
the plates were not worth eating ". 	Nicolas Morhle
said that the taste was so dry and bad that he was
fain spue out the bits he had taken. 	" Their wine
also is black like stale blood, and is given to the
company in some filthy sort of drinking horn. 	There
is plenty of everything save only white bread 	and
salt ".
This is all very concisely summed up in the great
work of the theological school of the University of
Salamanca, 	usually 	quoted 	as 	" the 	Salamanca
doctors " : " The witches make a meal from food either
furnished by themselves or by the Devil. 	It is some-
times most delicious and delicate, and sometimes a pie
baked 	from babies 	they 	have slain, or disinterred
corpses. A suitable grace is said before such a table".
Thus when 	Isobel 	Gowdie, 	of 	Auldearne 	(1662),
described the feast of her society which took place in
Grangehill she gave fullest details : 	" The Devil sat
at the head of the table, and all the Coven about.
That night he desired Alexander Elder in Earlseat to
say the grace before meat, which he did ; 	and is
this :-

156 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
We eat this meat in the Devil's name,
With sorrow, and sighing, and mickle shame ;
We shall destroy house and hold,
Both sheep and beeves within the fold.
Little good shall come to the fore
Of all the rest of the little store.
And then we began to eat. 	And when we had ended
eating, we looked steadfastly to the Devil, and bowing
ourselves to 	him, we said to the Devil, We thank
thee, our Lord, for this." 	The giving thanks to the
Devil at the finish of the 	banquet 	appears to 	be
practically a universal custom. 	Delrio remarks that
he had actually seen and read the formulas for the
" devil's grace " before and after meat. 	They were
written out on parchment by a sorcerer constant in
his 	attendance 	at 	Sabbats. 	" The 	grace 	said 	at
this 	table 	is 	worthy 	of 	the 	infernal 	crew. 	In
phrases 	of 	hideous 	profanity 	'they 	acknowledge
Beelzebub 	as 	the creator and 	giver 	and 	preserver
of 	all 	the 	gifts 	they 	receive, 	and 	in 	the 	same
strain do they return thanks to the foul spirit when
they 	arise 	after 	having 	eaten and 	the 	tables 	are
removed."
It 	has 	been 	already noticed 	that 	Ziarnko 	and
Spranger depict the covens as feasting in cannibal
fashion on human limbs, and 	Dominique 	Isabelle,
a witch of Rogeville, confessed to Remy that she had
seen and tasted the flesh of babes at the devil's table.
At the trial of Louis Gaufridi in 1610 it came to light
that the flesh of young children " which they cook
and make ready in the Synagogue" was served to
the witches. 	Madeleine Bavent also describes how on
a Good Friday " the assembly performed a horrible

MAGIC, GHOSTS AND PHANTOMS
" Magica de Spectris " b y Hennig Grosse


THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	I 5 7
mockery of the Last Supper. 	They brought the body
of an infant who had been roasted, and this was eaten
by them all ". 	Sometimes human meat was eaten
for magical purposes. 	The witches were adepts at
child-stealing, or if they failed to kidnap they would
not hesitate to kill their own infants. 	The flesh was
often seethed in a caldron until it became potable,
when it was regarded as a charm of surpassing power.
Hence a witch busy at her caldron, confecting these
horrible ingredients, so often appears in illustrations,
as for example the engraved frontispiece to the rare
1656 edition (often called an Elzevir) of a work on
Magic, Ghosts, and Apparitions of 	all kindr, 	issued by
Hennig Grosse, a well-known publisher 	of Leipzig.
Thus 	the 	Parisian 	witches 	of 	the 	Guibourg 	and
La Voisin covens in the days of Louis XIV murdered
from first to last literally hundreds of " unwanted "
babies at their devilish rites, and were supplying at a
high 	price 	philtres 	and 	potions 	of 	these 	horrible
ingredients to a vast number of eager clients. 	A
Moorish sorceress will dig up a newly-buried corpse,
set it before her between her legs, and guiding the clay-
cold hands stirs with them cousscotcss (granulated flour
steamed 	over 	broth) 	which 	thus 	acquires 	certain
magical properties, as a love-charm, or more often
when 	mixed 	with 	earth from a grave and certain
filthy ingredients becomes the 	taam, or 	" accursed
food ", a slow but certain poison if only but a few
grains be swallowed.
Nicolas 	Remy 	and 	very 	many 	other 	authorities
emphasize the 	fact that 	salt never appears 	at the
witches' table. 	Bodin says that salt as an emblem of
eternity is hateful to the demon ; 	and 	a 	German

1 	5 	~ 	THE WITCH COVENS AND
writer, Philip Ludwig Elich, is most careful to point
out that salt is never seen at these evil banquets.
It were easy to accumulate a mass of evidence from
the witches' confessions in reference to this detail, but
it will suffice to observe that in England and Scotland
this taboo does not appear, the reason being that in
Catholic countries salt is sanctified in solemn sacrament
and ceremonial, since the ritual employs two kinds
of salt for liturgical purposes, the baptismal salt and
the blessed salt exorcized in the preparation of holy
water from which devils flee. 	Salt is blessed again for
the use of animals, and 	in 	honour 	of St. Hubert.
It is used in the consecration of a church. 	From the
earliest days indeed it has had a sacred and religious
character. 	Protestant England knew nothing of all
this.
The food furnished at Sabbats in the British Isles
was for the most part seemingly of good quality and
satisfying, but seldom of any extraordinary kind. 	The
Forfar 	coven in 	1661 at Mary 	Ryndys house made
themselves merry with strong March ale and brandy.
The Auldearne society met at a house where they had
beef in plenty, ale and other good drink. The Somerset-
shire witches who met on Lie Common, " all sate down,
a white Cloth being spread on the ground, and did
drink Wine, and eat Cakes and Meat." 	Some ten
years later the Riding Mill company were sumptuously
regaled with boiled capons, cheeses, butter, flour, beef,
bottles 	of 	wine 	and 	" a 	variety 	of meat ". 	The
devil 	enticed 	the 	poorer 	sort 	of 	Swedish 	witches
" by 	presenting 	them 	with 	Meat 	and 	Drink ",
and 	at 	their 	rendezvous, 	Blockula, 	which 	was
evidently 	a 	large 	country 	house, 	they 	sat 	down

THEIR GRAND MASTERS 	'59
at 	a 	very 	long 	table 	whereon 	were 	" Broth 	with
Colworts 	and 	Bacon 	in 	it, 	Oatmeal, 	Bread 	spread
with 	Butter, 	Milk 	and 	Cheese. 	And 	they 	added
that 	sometimes it 	tasted 	very 	well, 	and 	sometimes
very ill ".

CHAPTER 	IV
They ate the sanifices of the dead. 	Yea, they sam3ced their sons
and daughters unto d d . 	Thus were they defiled with their oum
works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.
Psalm CVI (Douai C V ) , 28, 37, 39.
It is so rash and foolish to deny the fact of these horrible connexiont
between the demon and human beings that in order to maintain such
a position you must be prepared obstinately to reject and spurn the
most weighty and carefully considered judgements of the acutest and
liveliest intellects, of Saints and philosophers alike, nay, you must
wage open war upon experience and common sense, whilst at the same
time you are fatally exposing your ignorance of the power of the devil
and the empery evil spirits can obtain over man.
FATHER	PETERTHYRAEUS,	S.J.
" Diabolical Mysticism " includes un'tchcraft, diabolical possession,
and the hideous stories of incubi and succuba?. DEANINGE.
The essential feature and 	climax of the 	Sabbat
orgies was the celebration of the devil's liturgy, the
Black Mass. 	I am of opinion that being present at a
Black Mass is to join 	in the witches' 	Sabbat, and
accordingly 	the 	Satanists 	who 	perform 	the 	Black
Mass to-day and all who attend these vile and impious
rites are actually holding a Sabbat.
A curious parallel is noted by Dr. Frangoise Legey.
On the night of the Achoura, the tenth day of Ramadan,
in order to renew their magic powers, at the bidding
of Eblis 	(the devil) 	the 	Moorish sorcerers secretly
penetrate into the mosques and pollute the mat of the
Imam. 	They make their ablutions with sour milk
and urinate upon 	the Koran. 	They also foul the

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	1 6 1
tafedna, 	the reservoirs of warm water in the public
baths. 	They then hold their Sabbat with vile rites in
a cemetery.
In I 324 when the Bishop of Ossory was investigating
the sorceries of Dame Alice Kyteler of Kilkenny, " in
rifling the closet of the ladie, they found a wafer of sacra-
mental bread, having the divels name stamped thereon
in stead of Jesus Christ, and a pipe of ointment, where-
with she greased a staffe, upon which she .ambled
and gallopped through thick and thin." 	This sacra-
mental bread has been consecrated at a Black Mass,
and 	it was also proved 	that 	Dame Alice, 	a 	past-
mistress of goety, had 	sacrificed at 	the 	cross-ways
nine red cocks to her familiar, Robin, son of Art. 	It
may be observed that the sacrifice of a black cock to
the demon is not infrequently mentioned in witch-trials.
The Devil's wafer of grotesque shape or impressed
with strange characters was often employed by the
witches. 	Gentien le Clerc, condemned at Orleans in
1614, frequented 	Sabbats, 	" and he had often seen
the devil's priest elevate the host and the chalice, of
which both were black." 	Thomas Boull6 and lYabbt5
Picard were accused by Madeleine Bavent of employing
blood-red hosts at their foul celebrations ; in the Mass
of St. Sicaire the host is triangular with three sharp
points, and black. 	Similar abominations are usual
among the Satanists to-day, so the tradition prevails
and Dame Alice Kyteler is closely linked with the
twentieth century.
The Neapolitan theologian and legist, Paul Grilland,
who wrote on sorcery towards the end of the sixteenth
century, 	describes 	how 	unconsecrated 	wafers 	are
inscribed with letters of blood and amorous devices

I 62 	THE BLACK MASS
and thus used at Mass, after which they are crumbled
or kneaded into a paste and mingled with food or
drink which is given as a love comfit or philtre. 	One
wealthy warlock drew blood from his finger and writing
therewith certain obscenities on an altar bread bribed
a priest to lay it on the altar-stone under the linen
cloths, so that Mass was said over it, with the addition
of some secret collects and ceremonies. 	It may be
observed that this practice is not unknown to-day.
At Rome there were discovered in a prostitute's house
two Hosts inscribed with curious uncials in blood, and
these wafers the woman confessed she was going to
give secretly to a gallant, beloved by a noble lady,
who had furnished the charm. 	Grilland further dis-
cusses in 	detail the celebrations over unconsecrated
breads destined for magical purposes, and 	also how
some interpolate the very Canon of the Mass with
lewd and wicked prayers 	to an evil end. 	In 	1460
at a French trial it came to light that a priest seduced
by a witch had actually baptized a toad, fed it with
the consecrated Host, and allowed his paramour to
use it for the destruction of their personal enemies.
The abomination of the Black Mass is performed by
some apostate or renegade priest who has abandoned
himself 	to 	the 	service 	of 	evil 	and 	is 	shamefully
prominent amongst the congregation of witches. 	I t
should be remarked from this fact that it is plain the
witches are as profoundly convinced of the doctrines
of Transubstantiation, the Totality, Permanence, and
Adorableness of the Eucharistic Christ, as is the most
orthodox Catholic. 	Indeed, unless such were the case,
their revolt would 	be empty and meaningless, void
at any rate of its material malice.

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	163
Gilles de Sill4 of the diocese of St. Malo, and above
all the 	Florentine, Antonio Francesco Prelati, who
had been ordained by dispensation at an early age in
the 	Cathedral of Pistoia 	by 	the Bishop of Arezzo,
served as devil's chaplains to Gilles de Rais, and cele-
brated black masses in the vaults of the Chapel of
St. Vincent at the Chaiteau of Tiffauges, when children
were sacrificed in scores to the demon.
At Tiffauges to-day from the lonely broken arches
of the Chapel one may pass through a cellar door
into the crypt below, which dates from the eleventh
century. 	Of no great size and low-sprung the solid
roof is transversed by heavy yet not ungraceful semi-
circular 	arches 	supported 	by 	massy 	pillars 	whose
capitals are relieved with carved lozenges and croziers.
The place is gloomy, and but a wan watery daylight
seems to filter in, showing the rough broken floor in
one corner of which gapes the naked opening of some
oubliette or little well, down which no doubt were
thrown the dead bodies of the children whom Prelati
offered upon the altar-stone.
One can well picture the scene illumined only by
two black candles, reeking of bitumen and pitch, and
by the faint flicker of the rushlight set upon the ground.
The silence is broken but by the hoarse blasphemy
of the acolyte as he responds in a low tone to the
hurried mutter of the young priest clad in the strange
vestments of his infernal cult, the mock chasuble of
murrey, the hue of dank clotted gore, marked with the
inverse cross. 	The sacred words of power are spoken
with a sneer. 	The golden chalice is raised in hideous
parody ; 	the keen knife flashes with swift light, 	a
moment more and the fresh blood gushes from the

164 	THE BLACK MASS
gaping throat of the youth lying fettered there into
the sacramental cup, poor blood commingles with the
saving Blood of God, and as the film of death closes
over the agonizing eyes of his victim the Italian calls
aloud upon Apollyon, the prince of darkness, to accept
the sacrifice, to manifest himself and show himself
gracious unto his faithful worshippers granting their
desire.
It 	was commonly rumoured 	that 	Charles 	IX of
France employed an apostate monk to celebrate the
eucharist 	of hell 	before himself and 	his intimates.
Bodin at any rate describes how he summoned to his
presence a condemned sorcerer named Trois-eschelles
du Mayne, who was pardoned on condition that he
should give the king an ample account of the Sabbat
orgies and all the horrid mystery of witchcraft. 	This
the warlock proved very ready to do, and not only
vividly painted Satan's bacchanalia in glowing phrase,
but had no scruples about naming a large number
of those whom he had recognized at these infernal
synagogues.
That the assassination of Henri 	111, the younger
brother and successor of Charles IX, was largely the
outcome of constant reports which were assiduously
circulating throughout the north of France accusing
him of Satanism is now fairly well established. 	The
murder 	of the 	Cardinal 	of Lorraine 	on 	the 	ngrd
December, 1588, and the subsequent denunciation of
the king from a hundred flaming pulpits as a heretic,
deposed, 	excommunicate, had 	so incensed 	popular
feeling that a mere mob revolt blazed forth in civil
war, but the charges of devil worship determined his
death. 	A 	contemporary pamphlet of fifeen 	pages,

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	165
octavo, published at Paris in 	1589 and entitled 	The
Horrid Sorceries of Henry de Valois, and the Oblations which
he ofered to the Demon in the Wood of Vincennes. Together
with an engraving of the jigures 	of two devils in silver gilt
to 	whom 	he 	sacrijced 	openly arraigns 	the monarch's
homosexuality and sorceries in terms of sternest con-
demnation. 	It is said that in a grove of the forest of
Vincennes there were discovered two silver statues of
satyrs, curiously gilded, and about four feet high. 	In
his left hand each held a stout club upon which he
leaned, in his right was a small bowl of purest shining
crystal. Each stood upon a round base, richly wrought,
and supported by four feet chased in the baroque
fashion. 	In the crystal bowls were thin grey ashes, as
if a handful of unknown herbs or some sort of incense
had been burned. 	What proved more significant than
all was that the satyrs had their back 	turned to a
golden cross, some 	3) 	feet in length, in the midst
of which was set a piece of wood, believed to be a
Relic of the True Cross.
The enemies of the king created a resounding scandal
out of this 	mysterious discovery, whilst his friends
laughed at the whole business, lightly remarking that
the two satyrs were nothing more or less than cande-
sticks of the antique form. 	To this it was answered
that the figures had no sort of pricket to hold a candle,
and the fact that they were placed with their backs
to the Holy Cross smelt of sorcery. 	Nor might this be
considered an accidental gesture, since the obscenity
of the satyrs betrayed them, and if two tapers should
be lit 	to honour 	the Relic were not 	angel-bearers
or 	at any rate plain sconces more appropriate and
more decent than lewd heathen goat-men ?

I 66 	THE BLACK MASS
Yet 	another 	contemporary 	pamphlet 	A 	Sharp
Remonstrance addressed to Henri de 	Valois gives fantastic
stories of schools for necromancy being established
at the Louvre, of the celebration of Black Masses, of
the invocation of demons, and how the King main-
tained a familiar, named Terragon, to whose embraces
he compelled a public prostitute to submit herself.
Whether Henri I11 dabbled in occult arts or no can
6 c
only be regarded as 	not proven ", for it must be
remembered that the evidence is violently prejudiced
and inimical, and it is well known that at the very
time these and 	other 	equally 	ribald 	pasquils 	were
pouring from the press and rabid accusations of black
magic filled 	the 	air 	the 	prominent 	Leaguers were
attempting the king's death by fashioning his image in
wax and piercing it to the heart with long pins and
bodkins, whilst scarcely a day went by that they did
not call to consultation some astrologer to read the
heavens' face for the royal doom or some foul diviner
to cast the runes.
Pierre De Lancre describes in some detail the Black
Mass as it was celebrated by the witch covens of the
Pyrenees at the beginning of the seventeenth century.
The demon or the Grand Master vests himself in the
usual robes to say Mass, which is to say (one supposes)
he wears the 	amice, alb, 	girdle, stole, maniple and
chasuble. 	The words are spoken with a thousand glib
sneers and mocking accents. 	The altar was erected
on four supports, sometimes under a sheltering tree,
at others upon 	a flat rock or some naturally 	con-
venient place. 	No Conzteor was said, and Alleluia was
strictly avoided, but 	the officiant who held 	in his
hand a book of which he frequently turned the leaves

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	1 ~ 7
began to mutter in a low voice prayers, epistle and
gospel, so that it was hardly in this respect to be
distinguished from the Mass itself. 	At the Offertory
he drew back a little from the altar and on occasion
seated himself, 	whilst 	the 	assembly approached in
order, kissed his left hand and presented each one a
candle. 	When the Queen of the Sabbat-the 	witch
who ranked first after the Grand Master, the oldest
and vilest of the crew-was 	present she sat on the left
of the altar and received the offerings, loaves, eggs, any
meat or country produce, and money, so long as the
coins were not stamped with a cross. 	In her hand she
held a small flat disc or plate, technically known as the
'' pax " or " pax-brede ". 	This was engraved with a
figure of the demon, which the whole congregation
devoutly kissed.
At this point the Grand Master or some warlock
appointed 	for 	that 	purpose 	preached 	a 	sermoQ,
haranguing the assembly in a strain of the most rancid
blasphemy and inciting them to every crime.
The ceremonies continued, and the Host which was
elevated was seen to be round and black, stamped
with a figure of the demon in red. 	The words, 	HOG	est
tnim corpus meum, were spoken. 	The chalice was also
elevated. The congregation prostrated themselves upon
the earth, and with loud clamours adored. 	A second
discourse or sermon was 	pronounced and then the
mock communion followed. All present were given a
particle of the Host, and they drank twice of the
chalice, a brew so infect, so stinking, so cold that it
seemed to freeze the very marrow of their bones.
None the less each one was compelled to swallow the
nauseous draught however ill they might stomach it.

I 68 	THE BLACK MASS
This description appears to point to some potent drug
being mingled in Satan's chalice.
It may be remarked that the use of incense at the
Black Mass is very rarely noticed, but Silvain Nevillon, a
French witch, spoke of a fume which " smelled abomin-
ably foul, not sweet and odorous as is the ineense burned
in churches ". 	At the modern Black Mass the rough
tang of acrid herbs often fills the air, for the Satanists
to-day during their hellish liturgy burn in braziers,
chafing-dishes 	and 	thuribles 	rue, 	henbane, 	deadly
nightshade, lumps of resin and rotting leaves, a smoke
and stench which, as one of the gang declared, 	" is
fragrant and grateful to the nostrils of our Master."
Boguet speaks of the Black Mass as sung by a priest
vested in an old and dirty black cope with no cross
on it. 	" And to make Holy Water the Devil urinates in
a hole in the ground, and the worshippers are sprinkled
with his filthy stale by the celebrant who has a black
asperge."
When Louis Gaufridi, the wizard-priest of Accoules
(Marseilles) was brought to trial in February, 	I 61I ,
a tale of almost unheard-of abomination was ripped
open, and Madeleine de la Palud described in amplest
detail the countless Sabbats she had attended, where
Lucifer's lieutenant, the Prince of the Synagogue (in
effect Gaufridi himself), was worshipped with divine
honours. 	The Black Mass was said in Satan's name,
either by Gaufridi or by some other miserable wretch,
when " the Host was really and truly consecrated and
offered to the demon ", whilst the Precious Blood was
sprinkled from the chalice over the vile crew who
shouted and yelled : 	" His 	Blood 	be 	on 	us, 	and
on our children ! "

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	169
Horrible as is the story of Madeleine de la Palud
it may be paralleled, and is indeed exceeded, by the
narrative of Madeleine Bavent, a Franciscan sister of
the Third Order, attached to the convent of St. Louis
and 	St. 	Elizabeth 	at 	Louviers, 	a 	little 	old-world
Norman 	town some 	twenty-six 	miles from Rouen.
Mathurin 	Picard, 	the 	evil chaplain of the com-
munity, a warlock deeply versed in black magic, was
wont to celebrate the infernal eucharist in a midnight
vault. 	Around the altar in this den of devils were set
great candelabra, and these alone gave the required
light. 	Mass from the " Book of Blasphemy " was said
by 	Picard, 	by his assistant Thomas BoullC, and by
other wizard-priests who often 	brought 	with 	them
Hosts and chalices to be fearfully defiled by the coven.
The Host used at these celebrations is described as
resembling the usual Altar Bread, but of 	a slightly
reddish hue. 	At the elevation the whole gang shrieked
out the vilest profanities. 	It was customary for all
present 	to 	communicate 	at 	the 	eucharist 	of 	hell.
" Every action I saw performed at the Sabbat," 	says
Madeleine Bavent, " was indescribably loathsome."
In addition to the Black Mass other rites took place
-processions, 	renunciations, liturgical 	cursings 	and
maledictions, the stabbing and lancing with knives of
consecrated Hosts, the throttling of little babes who
were sacrificed to the demon. 	On one Good Friday
a woman brought her new-born infant to the Sabbat,
and it was decided the child should be crucified, which
was done under conditions of peculiar horror. 	Part
of the bleeding body was employed to confect their
charms, and the rest they buried.
During the reign of Louis XIV a veritable epidemic

= 70 	THE BLACK MASS
of sacrilege seemed to rage through Paris, and indeed
the 	investigations conducted 	by 	the 	Lieutenant 	of
Police, Gabriel-Nicolas de la Reynie, let loose such
an avalanche of scandal and crime implicating not
only persons of low degree but the highest and most
powerful names in France that at the last the King in
his absolute authority was of necessity compelled to
quash the whole business. Poisons had been brewed,
Black 	Masses said, necromancy practised, abortions
procured, murders contrived, plots laid for the death
of court favourite and 	political foe, 	and 	all 	these
abominations seemed to centre round two figures of
the blackest underworld of Paris, the abbt Guibourg
and La Voisin.
Catherine 	Montvoisin-La 	Voisin 	as 	she 	was
commonly 	called-had 	long 	been 	known 	to 	the
criminal and the curious as midwife, poisoner, bawd
and witch. 	There was no infamy which might not be
purchased in the secret chambers of her house, No. 25
Rue 	Beauregard. 	She 	was 	assisted 	in 	the 	many
branches of her mysterious and obscene profession by
numerous satellites and lovers, chief amongst whom
Romani, a handsome young Italian boy and an actor
of great talent, filled many a curious r6le. 	The two
executioners of Paris, M. Guillaume and M. Larivi$re,
contended for her favours, gallants who could bring
her fine presents of the limbs and fat of murderers
who had swung on the gibbet or been broken on the
wheel, whence she made tall black tapers for her secret
ceremonies. 	A 	wanton 	hermaphrodite, 	exotic and
perverse, La Trianon dwelt in that awful house, to
which also daily resorted some curious old women,
whose 	calling 	no 	one rightly 	knew, 	La 	Gallet,

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	'7'
La Lepere, La Joly, La Filastre, La Bosse, La Thomas.
As a matter of fact they were one and all, and a score
beside, adepts in the art of poisoning and abortionists
of no mean skill and practice. 	A wit called 25 Rue
Beauregard 	" the centre of the city ", and 	it is no
exaggeration to say that all Paris from duchess to drab,
from marshal to muckman, crowded La Voisin's doors.
The Abbk Guibourg, known among the witches as
M. le Prieur, the illegitimate son of Henri de Mont-
morency, was a man of some seventy years, who is
described as tall and heavy-limbed with a malign and
sensual face. 	" He can be compared with no one else,"
wrote de la Reynie, " for the tale of his poisonings,
and his traffic in drugs and witchcraft. 	He is familiar
with every form of villainy, guilty of a large number of
horrible crimes and suspected of complicity in many
more." 	It was M. le Prieur who celebrated innumer-
able 	Satanic 	Masses 	at 	the 	instance 	of 	Madame
de Montespan in order to secure 	for her supreme
power and the eternal fidelity of the King. Even before
Louis had separated from de La Vallitre the vicar of
St.-SCverin, 	the 	AbbC 	Mariette, 	had 	been 	reciting
erotic charms over the hearts of two pigeons consecrated
during Mass in the names of Louis de Bourbon and
AthCnais de Montespan, and apparently the spell had
succeeded. 	But Louis was fickle and apt to be pro-
miscuous in his amours, so his love must be fixed on
her alone and the 	aid of the 	Abbt 	Guibourg was
requested. In the chapel of the Chateau de Villebousin
near 	Montlhdry, at Saint-Denis, a long black velvet
pall was spread over the altar, and upon this the royal
mistress laid herself in a state of perfect nudity. 	Six
black candles were lit, the celebrant robed himself in

I 7 * 	THE BLACK MASS
a chasuble thickly embroidered with esoteric characters
wrought in silver, the gold paten and chalice were
placed upon the naked belly of the living altar to
whose warm flesh the horrible old priest pressed his
bloated lips each time the rubrics directed him to kiss
the place of sacrifice. All was hushed save for the low
monotonous murmur of the blasphemous liturgy. 	The
Host was consecrated, and then the Precious Blood.
An assistant crept forward bearing an infant in her
arms. 	The child was held over the altar, a sharp swift
gash across the neck, a stifled cry, and warm red drops
fell into the chalice whilst the full tide streamed upon
the white figure beneath. 	The corpse was handed to
La Voisin, who flung it callously into an oven fashioned
for that purpose, which glowed white-hot.
It was proved that a regular traffic had been carried
on 	for 	years 	with 	beggar-women 	and 	the 	lowest
prostitutes, who sold their children for this purpose.
At her trial La Voisin confessed that no less than
2,500 babies had been disposed of in this manner,
for the Black Mass was continually being celebrated
not only by 	Guibourg but 	by 	other priests. 	The
figures are so startling that some incredulity has been
expressed by those who do not know the Paris of
Louis XIV, but there appears no reason to doubt the
sum. 	We may bear in mind that 	a whole pack of
venal and utterly unscrupulous midwives was actively
at work ; that when the impostume of filth and crime
was ripe to bursting no less than 319 warrants were
issued, 	whilst 	there 	were 	very 	many 	more 	whose
names were suppressed so deeply did they implicate
the highest in the land, nay, the very Throne itself;
that six and thirty witches, poisoners and abortionists

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	I 7 3
were executed ; that 147, Guibourg, Lesage, Romani,
De Vanens, and others were sentenced to close confine-
ment in the remotest fortresses ; that many, such as
the magician Blessis, went to the galleys for life ; and
many, again, were conducted by the police over the
frontier, condemned to perpetual exile. Several persons
died 	in 	prison, 	and 	others 	again 	(of 	noble 	and
unblemished lineage) committed suicide in agonies of
shame lest they should be involved, however remotely,
or even as witnesses, in such scandalous and abominable
proceedings.
Perhaps the most sad circumstance that came to
light during the investigation of these orgies of witch-
craft was the large number of priests concerned. 	Not
to 	mention 	the 	mere panders 	and 	poisoners-and
~ l i ~ h a s	Ltvi says that Black Magic is " above all the
science of poisoning "-amongst 	those who habitually
celebrated the Black Mass were the Abbt Brigallier,
almoner to Mlle de Montpensier, who married the
Duc de Lauzun ; 	the Abbt Cotton who offered 	in
sacrifice to Satan a child baptized with Holy Oils used
in 	the 	Sacrament 	of 	Extreme 	Unction, 	and 	then
strangled, and whose speciality was " La Messe du
Saint Esprit ", which is said over a piece of goat's
skin sprinkled with holy water and which is intended
to cure certain illnesses, to induce love or hate, even
to conjure up the demon, all of which Dr. Jean-Baptiste
Thiers in his great work denounces as a most pestilent
superstition, nay, 	more, 	he 	roundly 	condemns this
practice as a 	" Witch's Mass ", and profane in the
highest degree ; the AbbC Davot, assistant priest at
Notre Dame de Bonne-Nouvelle only a few doors from
La Voisin's house, whose custom it was to lay under

I 74 	THE BLACK MASS
the corporal at Mass a piece of paper inscribed with
the name of the person who should be brought to love,
or if hated, damned to die, a practice eagerly pursued
to-day-if 	a priest may be found ; the Abbt Deshayes,
who demanded exorbitant fees for his Black Masses and
who was also a most skilful coiner ; Father Gabriel, a
Capuchin, who with the Abbt Seysson, was wont to
say Masses at La Voisin's house over women's after-
births 	and 	children's 	cauls 	to 	confect 	charms 	of
particular 	potency; 	the 	Abbt 	Lepreux, 	a 	school-
master, deep in the most shameful court secrets, who
dedicated 	infants 	to 	the 	demon, 	and 	consecrated
snakes and 	toads to mingle with poisons for their
greater efficacy ; 	the AbbC 	Mabile, who celebrated
the sacrifice of the Death's Head ; the Abbt Malbscot,
who had entered into a sort of partnership with the
witch and abortionist, La Gallet, for whom he touted
with very considerable success ; the Abbt Mariette, who
whilst still young had been banished from Paris for his
sorceries (it is clear that he was onIy saved from the
stake owing to family interest, for he was of a wealthy
and good house), but who returned almost openly to
place himself at the service of Madame de Montespan ;
the Abbt Olivier, who consecrated an altar for Black
Masses in a brothel ; 	the Abbt 	Rebours, who said
Black Masses on the body of his mistress ; the Abbe
Tournet, who said Masses in order to kill the child in
the womb, and who was in great request among the
evil sisterhood. 	This catalogue of a dozen wizard-
priests drawn from the archives of the Bastille could
easily be multiplied four or five times. 	There was also
Jean-Baptiste Stbault, of the diocese of Bourges, who
whilst lodging in Paris at the house of a doctor, named

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	'75
Charmillon, seduced Marianne Charmillon, a girl of
twenty-two, 	his 	host's 	daughter, 	and 	continually
brought her to the Black Mass. 	The Abbt Guignard
celebrated a Satanic Mass in a cellar over her body,
and 	was served by 	SCbault in 	a 	state of complete
nudity. 	An aphrodisiac was brewed 	at this orgy.
The Abbt Lemaignan sacrificed young children, and
possessed whole sets of rich vestments in which to
celebrate the eucharist of hell.
It is only too much to be feared that the evil science
of 	Guibourg 	and 	his 	company was 	handed 	down
throughout 	the 	eighteenth 	century. 	The 	Duc 	de
Richelieu, who was born in 1696 and died at the age
of ninety-two in I 788, was much suspected of studying
goety and the worst kinds of occult science. 	It was
said that whilst quite a young man he had formed too
close an intimacy with an Austrian noble whose tastes
lay in the same direction, and whose wealth enabled
him to purchase the secrets of those who had known
the Abbt Guibourg and had been instructed by him
in every dark secret of magic. 	Two Capuchins, who
were his chaplains, celebrated Black Masses, at which
the devotees assisted, in the old deserted chapel of a
lone country-house. 	After 	this 	the Duke and 	his
friend defiled the Hosts, in the hope that 	thereon
Satan 	would 	appear 	to 	crown 	and 	reward 	their
blasphemy.
Under the Regency, necromancers and wizards a d
traffickers in Satanic eucharists abounded, for Philippe
d'OrlCans 	was notoriously addicted to occultism of
every kind. 	As might be expected there are revolting
pictures d the Black Mass in the lewd pages of de Sade.
In 	Justine 	such 	a 	Mass celebrated in 	a 	cloister 	is

I76 	THE BLACK MASS
described in filthy detail. 	When Juliette 	is initiated
into the " Society of the Friends of Crime " the Host
and Crucifix are desecrated. 	Again, a little later, two
Satanic orgies are exhibited, when the High Altar is
the scene of every defilement. 	There are other and
even more obscene descriptions of the Black Mass in
the work, but these it is unnecessary to particularize.
Upon the night of the execution of King Louis XVI,
21st 	January, 	I 793, 	a 	number 	of 	French 	devil-
worshippers formed themselves into a definite society
to foster revolution and propagate their cult of evil.
The third chief of this organization died at Florence
about 1905. 	He was believed to be nearly a hundred
years old. 	This particular Society of Satanists spread
very rapidly into Italy and soon penetrated Germany.
A 	little later it had 	established itself very secretly
in England, and there can be no question that it has
proved one of the most potent forces for evil since its
very 	inception. 	It 	has 	developed 	and 	flourished
exceedingly and flung out its poisonous tentacles in
all directions. 	It would be no exaggeration to say
that much of the world's 	misery and unrest is due to
this foul conspiracy against God and humanity.
Nowhere in France during the first half of the nine-
teenth century was religious life more fervent and more
zealous than throughout the diocese of Agen. 	Under
such saintly Bishops as de Bonnac (the first to refuse
the constitutional oath of 	17g2), and Jean 	Aim6 de
Levezon de Vezins pious associations, communities
and confraternities were warmly encouraged, not the
least of these devout fellowships being the Children of
Mary founded by 	Adhle 	de 	TrenquellCon 	and 	the
widow of a physician, Madame Belloc. 	This latter

THE WITCHES' SYNAGOGUE
Goya
I fuce p. 176


THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	I77
lady employed a housekeeper, Virginie (whose sur-
name curiously has not been recorded), and to her
horror this woman one day revealed to her pious
mistress that she was a Satanist of long continuance,
the member of an infernal society which had its head-
quarters under the very shadow of St. Caprasius, the
pro-cathedral. 	Virginie stated that when about twelve
years 	old 	she had 	been 	taken to 	a 	house in 	the
city were was an altar dedicated to the devil, at which
an aged priest celebrated a Mass of blasphemy during
which 	there 	occurred 	a 	fearful 	manifestation 	of
corporeal evil. 	Moreover she was taught that each
Communion she must retain the Host in her mouth,
and then eject it secretly so that she might bring it
to the midnight Sabbats to be horribly profaned by
the 	impious 	crew, 	whose 	necromancies 	and 	con-
jurations 	were of the vilest 	and 	most 	abominable
description. 	Madame Belloc hastened to call in the
assistance of the AbbC Degans, to whom Virginie con-
fessed that she would sometimes attend 	as many as
five or six early Masses in different churches to obtain
the Host. 	Upon her resolution to repent she fell a
prey to an unclean spirit which the AbbC Degans
expelled with 	difficulty and 	after many exorcisms.
One curious feature of the case was the continual
apports of Hosts, many of which were marked with
bloody characters. 	Much scandal ensued, and an
ecclesiastical 	inquiry 	followed. 	Many 	suspicious
circumstances came to light concerning Virginie when
she formed a 	connexion 	with 	the 	pseudo-prophet
Eug&ne Vintras and his followers, in whose private
chapel at Tilly-sur-Seulles (as one of the sect, Gozzoli,
quite 	unequivocally 	testified) 	the 	most 	horrible
N

I 78 	THE BLACK MASS
obscenities were practised during the celebration of
sacrilegious eucharists. 	It is significant that in 	I 845
Vintras came to England and established himself in
London as the Master of a dark and evil cult which
has never died.
Virginie declared that 	the Grand 	Master of the
Agen Satanists became truly penitent, and made his
peace with Heaven. 	There can be little doubt, how-
ever, that many of the latter statements she made were
untrue. 	It is probable that after her first revelations
the Satanists so threatened and terrified her that she
lied 	freely 	to 	conceal 	their 	identities 	and 	their
rendezvous. 	That their chapel was never discovered
is no occasion for surprise. 	They very well know how
to cover their tracks.
About the same time 	1830--1850 a band of devil
worshippers were carrying on their foul witchcrafts at
Bordeaux, and numberless Hosts were stolen from the
churches, 	especially from 	Saint-AndrC 	and 	Sainte-
Eulalie. In I 852 there burst forth a resounding scandal
owing to the celebration of Black Masses in Paris by a
band of most impious and malevolent Satanists.
To retail the sacrilege of Black Masses down the
years would be weary repetition. Suffice that Satanism
in every country yet has its votaries and is extensively
practised. 	It is a matter of notoriety that in 	1924
two ciboria, containing 	IOO consecrated Hosts, were
carried off by an old woman from Notre 	Dame in
circumstances which clearly indicated that the holy
vessels were not the objects of the larceny. 	In 	1895
a particularly revolting instance of defilement of the
Host 	occurred in the Island 	of 	Mauritius. 	Rome,
Salerno, 	Naples, 	Florence, 	Lyons, 	London, 	York,

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	'79
Brighton, 	Brussels, 	Bruges, 	and 	many 	other 	towns
have all suffered from these abominations. 	In more
than one quarter of London-on 	the northern heights,
in a south-west suburb, in the East End, in the City,
by the riverside-have 	the Satanists made a den, a
chapel and altar to the demon they worship with rites
of the most horrid lewdness and impiety.
It is very well known that the terrible picture of
the black 	mass drawn by Jorris Karl Huysmans in
his masterpiece Ld-Bar (1891) is true in every detail,
and all the characters are taken from life, and have
indeed been precisely identified. Thus Madame Chante-
louve 	is 	(in large part 	at 	least) 	Madame 	Berthe
Courrikre, and Docre is named by Mons. Leon Deffoux
and other authorities as I'abbC Roca, although Mons.
Pierre Dufay, whose opinion carries weight, 	argues
that he is rather Camn Van Ecke (or Van Arche),
sometime a chaplain of the sanctuary of the Precious
Blood at Bruges.
That extraordinary and erratic visionary the A b E
J.-A. 	Boullan in a letter to Huysmans, dated 	10th
February, I 890, says : "Amongst ecclesiastics Satanism
is more widely practised and ardently pursued than
even in the Middle Ages. 	It is to be found at Rome ;
and above all at Paris, Lyons, and 	Chilons, 	so far
as France is concerned ; in Belgium Bruges is their
headquarters." 	Perhaps it should not be forgotten
that the orthodoxy of Boullan himself was more than
suspect, and whilst there was much open gossip of
strange masses by which evil charms and enchantments
were dissolved,-the 	Eucharist of Glory,-there 	were
also darker hints which pointed to plain Satanism.
Boullan asserted that 	he 	employed 	White 	Magic ;

I 80 	THE BLACK MASS
his opponents-and 	he had many enemies-declared
that he was an adept in Black Magic.
In May, 1895, when the legal representatives of the
Borghese family visited the Palazzo Borghese, which
had been rented for some time in separate floors or
suites, they found some difficulty in obtaining admis-
sion to certain apartments on the first floor, the occu-
pant of which seemed unaware that 	the lease was
about to expire. By virtue of the terms of the agreement,
however, he was obliged to allow them to inspect the
premises to see if any structural repairs or alterations
were necessary, as Prince Scipione Borghese, who was
about to be married, intended immediately to take
up his residence in the ancestral home with his bride.
One door the tenant obstinately refused to unlock,
and when pressed he betrayed the greatest confusion.
The agents finally pointed out that they were within
their rights to employ actual force, and that if access
was longer denied they would not hedtate to do so
forthwith. 	When the keys had been produced, the
cause of the reluctance was soon plain. 	The room
within was inscribed with the words 	Templum Palla-
dicum. 	The walls were hung all round from ceiling
to floor with 	heavy curtains of silk damask, scarlet
and black, excluding the light ; 	at the further end
there 	stretched 	a 	large 	tapestry 	upon 	which 	was
woven 	in 	more 	than 	life-size a 	figure of 	Lucifer,
colossal, triumphant, dominating the whole. 	Exactly
beneath an altar had been built, amply furnished for
the liturgy of hell ; 	candles, vessels, rituals, missal,
nothing 	was 	lacking. 	Cushioned 	prie-dieus 	and
luxurious chairs, crimson and gold, were set in order
for the assistants ; the chamber being lit by electricity,

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	181
fantastically arrayed so as to glare from an enormous
human eye. 	The visitors soon quitted the accursed
spot, the scene of devil-worship and blasphemy, nor
had 	they 	any desire more 	nearly 	to 	examine the
appointments of this infernal chapel.
A 	writer 	of 	authority 	has 	said : 	" Turning 	to
English accounts, little or nothing of the Black Mass
is to be traced," 	and we find this echoed more than
once. 	The point of the matter lies here. 	In 	1559
Queen 	Elizabeth 	initiated 	her 	religious 	settlement
by the enactment of Penal Laws, which in 	a very
few years were greatly increased in severity, and since
the Act of Uniformity of this year was designed to
compel the use of the Anglican Book of Common
Prayer it punished by deprivation and imprisonment
all clerics who followed any other service. 	A little
later 	the 	Mass 	was 	prohibited, 	and 	in 	effect 	the
punishment for saying Mass was death. 	Even in the
reign of George 111, in 	1767, upon the delation of
a common informer, the Rev. Mr. Maloney was tried
at Croydon for having said Mass and condemned to
perpetual imprisonment, but after three or four years
the Government commuted the sentence to perpetual
banishment. 	In 	1769 the 	Hon. James 	Talbot, 	a
brother of the fourteenth Earl of Shrewsbury, and
Bishop of Birtha, 	was tried for his life at the Old
Bailey and only escaped owing to a conflict of evidence
as the informers obviously did not know what a Mass
was and it was urged that the Bishop might have
been 	conducting some other service. 	The famous
Lord Mansfield utilized every technicality and loop-
hole (not to say quibble) of the law to prevent the
conviction of priests accused 	of saying Mass. 	One

I 82 	THE BLACK MASS
point he was wont to urge turned on the fact that the
Protestant informers could not be aware in what a
Mass consisted and that even if a man were in vestments
at an altar using certain ceremonies this might not be
the Mass. 	At any rate it is clear that in Protestant
England the Mass had no place, although in certain
villages the tradition of the sanctity of the Sacrifice
and its mysterious power lingered until the very time
of the Oxford Movement. 	It can, however, be clearly
shown, both in England and in Scotland, that the
witches celebrated a mock-sacrament.
Before the upheaval under Henry VIII the Black
Mass was certainly known 	in 	the British Isles. 	In
the 	twelfth 	century Gerald de Barry laments those
wizard-priests who corrupt the very Sacrament of the
Altar to black magic by celebrating Masses over wax
images in order to lay a spell on some person, as also
others who sing a Solemn Requiem ten times and apply
it to some living man that he may die on the tenth
day or very soon after, and go down to the tomb.
In 1286 an apostate monk, a Cistercian of Rievaulx
Abbey, Godfrey Darel, was commonly defamed as a
celebrant of Black Masses, and reported to the Arch-
bishop of York.
There is very definite evidence for a mock-sacrament
in Scotland as late as the 	end 	of 	the seventeenth
century. In August, I 678, the devil convened " a great
meeting of witches in Lothian ",where amongst others
appeared a hideous figure who had once been admitted
to the ministry, and had served the parish of Crichton,
about six miles from Dalkeith. 	This warlock parson,
Mr. Gideon Penman, was of notoriously evil life and
stood in high favour with the devil who spoke of him

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	183
as 	" Mr. Gideon, my chaplain ". 	He had 	turned
under the devil a preacher of hellish sermons, for he
was reputed very eloquent in the pulpit. 	In mockery
of Christ and His holy ordinance of the Sacrament
of His Supper, the devil gave a sacrament to the
witches, bidding them eat it, and to drink in remem-
brance of himself. 	The villain, Penman, used very
readily to assist Satan in these ceremonies, and in
preaching. 	Lord Fountainhall, the famous Scottish
lawyer (who was incidentally an extreme Protestant),
when describing the same assembly of witches says
that 	the 	Devil 	" adventured 	to 	give 	them 	the
communion or holy sacrament, the bread 	was like
wafers, 	the drink was 	sometimes blood, 	sometimes
black moss-water. 	He preached, and most blasphem-
ously ".
In New England we find the same tradition of what
may be termed the Protestant equivalent of a black
mass. 	The Rev. George Burroughs, a pastor at Wells,
Maine, and 	Grand 	Master of the 	coven, preached
to the witches at their meetings, " and there they had
a Sacrament " 	with 	a 	woman, 	Martha 	Carrier, 	as
Deacon. 	One member of the gang confessed how
" the Witches had a Sacramnt that day at an house
in the Village, and they had Red Bread and Red Drink ".
According to Madeleine Bavent the Host at the Mass
of blasphemies was red, and there are many references
to the Red Drink in the chalice with which the AbM
Guibourg even mingled blood. At Salem the traditional
rites of this foul travesty of worship were strictly
observed, and these practices must have been carefully
handed down and exactly taught to the New England
representatives of the witch society.

1 ~ 4 	THE BLACK MASS
During the reign of George I the riots of the " Hell-
Fire Clubs ", which were simply Sabbats of Satanists,
had grown to such a height that in I 72 I a proclamation
was issued for the suppression of " certain scandalous
Clubs or Societies of young persons who meet together,
and in the most impious and blasphemous manner
insult the most sacred principles of our Holy Religion,
affront Almighty God Himself, and corrupt the minds
and morals of one another ". 	The inquiry was strict,
and for a time these Clubs or covens were 	driven
underground. 	Generally 	they 	met 	in 	the 	lowest
taverns, where the Satanists of to-day are often wont
to forgather to celebrate the Black Mass.
In 	1745 the well-known wit, 	George Selwyn, was
sent down from Oxford for celebrating (or at least
participating in-the 	details are not clear) a 	mock-
communion. A terrific scandal ensued, which Selwyn's
friend attempted to meet by swearing that the whole
business was but a drunken orgy. 	It is pretty plain,
however, that there was a good more in it than that,
and the fact that we find Selwyn enrolled a member
of the " Monks of Medmenham " is doubly significant.
Medmenham Abbey, 	a 	Cistercian foundation, is
near Marlow, Bucks, on the banks of the River Thames.
It was occupied by a notorious profligate, Sir Francis
Dashwood, 	who 	having 	converted 	it 	into 	a 	most
luxurious retreat, built or restored a chapel on the
model he had seen of the monasteries in France and
Italy, and in 	1732 here inaugurated " the Order of
St. Francis ", so dubbed after his own name, also
termed "the Franciscans " or "the Franciscan Monks ".
(It may be remarked that there is an inexactitude here.
A Franciscan is a friar, and cannot be a monk.) 	It

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	185
seems that only later was this Society known as the
" Hell-Fire Club ". 	The original number of members,
besides 	the 	Superior, was twelve-a 	witch's 	coven,
and each was baptized with the name of an apostle.
It is hardly necessary to give the list in full, more
especially as from time to time the numbers varied,
but many of the " Order " were in their day famous
and influential names, as for example John 	Wilkes,
Charles Churchill, Paul Whitehead, Robert Lloyd,
the Earl of Sandwich, George Bubb-Dodington, and
Selwyn. 	A certain young Sir John 	dYAubreyalso
attended the 	secret meetings. 	The 	" monks " 	or
rather Satanists met twice a year for the space of a
week. " The cellars were stored with the choicest wines;
the larders with the delicacies of every climate ; and
the cells were fitted up, for all the purposes of lascivious-
ness, for which proper objects were also provided."
There were novices, whose probationary office " was
to attend upon their superiours in the celebration of
their mysteries, which were all performed in the chapel
of the monastery, when no other servants were ever
permitted to enter, on the most common occasion, as
the very decorations of it would in a great measure have
betrayed their secrets ". 	The various members of this
company were bound to secrecy by oaths and impreca-
tions, since " so outrageous an insult upon the laws was
liable to punishment from the secular power ".
The initiate clad in a robe of white linen was led
to the Chapel at the tolling of a bell, and when at his
knock the door opened to the sound of soft and solemn
music he had to advance to the communion rails and
there make a professon 	of his principles " nearly in
the words, but with the most gross perversion of the

I 86 	THE BLACK MASS
sense of the articles of faith of the religion established
in the country ". 	The brotherhood knelt round the
altar whilst the superior repeated a prayer in the same
strain and manner with the profession of the candidate
to the Being whom they served. 	The novice was elected
with mimic ceremonial, and next in a mariner not
proper to be described, followed their eucharist, every
most sacred rite and 	observance of Religion being
profaned, and all the prayers and hymns of praise
appointed 	for the worship of the Deity burlesqued
by a perversion to the horrid occasion.
Little wonder that " a formal story was propagated
over the whole country, that the end of their meeting
was to worship the Devil, to whom this chapel was
dedicated, and who had often 	been seen among them,
in variety of shapes ".
The truth had leaked out, for it is plain from this
contemporary account that the Monks of Medmenham
were Satanists, who at their Sabbats carried on and
perpetuated 	the foul and blasphemous traditions 	of
the witch.
I have been quoting from Charles Johnstone's 	key-
novel " Chrysal : or the Adventures of a Guinea, where-
in are exhibited Views of several striking Scenes with
Curious and interesting Anecdotes, of the most Noted
Persons in every Rank of Life, whose Hands it passed
through, 	in 	America, England, 	Holland, Germany,
and Portugal ", I 760-65. 	Johnstone in this remark-
able book has painted contemporary life with unflinch-
ing exactness, and it is certain that either in some way
he managed to be present at the mysteries of Medmen-
ham, or else he gained most detailed information from
one of the members of that horrid society.

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	187
About the middle of the eighteenth century, on the
borderland of Germany and the Low Countries, the
devil-worshippers joined 	themselves into a 	body, 	a
vast secret organization called " Buxen ". 	This grew
to be a most-formidable gang, terrorizing the whole
of the Limburg district and the province of Treves,
until a state of appalling anarchy ensued. The custom
of the Buxen was to meet after nightfall in some lonely
spot and to commence proceedings by the celebration
of the Black Mass when Hosts, stolen from the taber-
nacle were foully desecrated. 	This was the time for
the initiation of recruits. 	It is said that their obscene
ceremonies were generally conducted in one of three
ruined sanctuaries, the church of St. Rose near Sittardt,
the oratory of St. Leonard hard by Roldyck, and a
haunted chapel at Oermond on the Meuse. Afterwards,
hideously masqued and disguised, they sallied forth-
sometimes to the number of two or three hundred-
and raided farms, small holdings, country houses, even
attacking villages. 	If they passed a church on the
way they invariably burst open the doors, robbed the
tabernacle, and gutted the whole building leaving it
in flames. 	A veritable reign of terror ruled, for so
carefully was the secret of membership guarded that
no man knew whether his neighbour, nay, his brother
or his son might not be a Bux. 	Any attempt at resis-
tance, any suspicion of treachery, met with the most
terrible reprisals. 	The society was only broken up
and crushed after the sternest measures had been taken,
a permanent gallows being set up in many places, and
some hamlets having two gibbets apiece. 	Leopold
Leeuwerk, dubbed their chaplain, a Satanist who had
offered hundreds of Black Masses to the demon, was

188 	THE BLACK MASS
caught at last, whilst another of their leaders was
hanged in I 772 on the moor of Graed, and a few years
later the Buxen had come to an end.
Closely connected with the Black Mass of the Satanists
and a plain survival from the Middle Ages is that grim
superstition of the Gascon peasant, the Mass of St.
SCcaire. 	Few priests know the awful ritual, and of
those who are learned in such dark lore fewer yet
would dare to perform the monstrous ceremonies and
utter 	the prayer of blasphemy. 	No confessor, no
bishop, not even the Archbishop of Auch, may shrive
the celebrant ; he can only be absolved at Rome by
the Holy Father himself. 	The Mass is said upon a
broken and desecrated altar in some ruined or deserted
church where owls hoot and mope and bats flit through
the crumbling windows, where toads spit their venom
upon the sacred stone. 	The priest must make his way
thither late attended only by an acolyte of impure and
evil life. 	At the first stroke of eleven he begins ; the
liturgy of hell is mumbled backward, the canon said
with a mow and a sneer ; he ends just as midnight
tolls. 	The Host is triangular, with three sharp points
and black. 	No wine is consecrated but foul brackish
water drawn from a well wherein has been cast the
body of an unbaptized babe. 	The holy sign of the
cross is made with the left foot upon the ground. And
the man for whom that mass is said will slowly pine
away, nor doctor's skill nor physic will avail him aught,
but he will suffer, and dwindle, and surely drop into
the grave.
When the blasphemous liturgy of the Sabbat was
done all present gave themselves up 	to 	the 	most
promiscuous debauchery without respect of age, dignity,

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	1 ~ 9
relationship, or sex. There is no obscenity, says Boguet,
which is not practised and eagerly pursued in these
assemblies. 	It is true that the sworn confessions of
such witches as Madeleine de la Palud and Madeleine
Bavent reveal a veritable abysm of turpitude. 	Gentien
le Clerc, a young Satanist of Orleans, whose mother
presented him to the devil when he was but three
years old, related how he had assisted at innumerable
Sabbats held in a meadow near, or sometimes even
in the very market square of Olivet, a village on the
left bank of the Loiret, about two and a half miles
from Orleans.
The ceremony commenced with an asperges of filthy
water or even urine. 	After this the Devil (the Grand
Master) celebrated the Mass. 	He wore a chasuble
of the usual form but 	embroidered with a broken
cross, and after he had elevated the Host and the
Chalice, both 	of which were black, he turned 	his
back to the altar in contempt, as is done in the Satanists'
liturgy to-day. 	The infamous Marie de Sains spoke
of a diabolical litany, which commenced-
Lucifer, miserere nobis,
Belzebuth, miserere nobis.
The Mass was read from a great book, which seemed
to have scarlet letters on the white vellum, and some
pages of which appeared all black. 	It had a rough,
furry cover as though made of a wild 	beast's 	pelt.
The pax was given in the accustomed place, but all
present kissed some obscene or grotesque object. After
this was done, Gentien avowed that the worshippers,
one and all, abandoned themselves to a very riot of
lust and spintrian pollutions. 	To accumulate details
were superfiuous. 	The same story is told throughout

I90 	THE BLACK MASS
the centuries. 	In 	Chrysal Johnstone 	writes how the
Monks of Mendenham after their mock communion
service sat down to a banquet 	" at which nothing
that 	the 	most 	refined 	luxury, 	the 	most 	lascivious
imagination could suggest to kindle loose desire, and
provoke and gratify appetite was wanting both the
superiours and the inferiours vying with each other
in loose songs and dissertations of such gross lewdness,
and daring impiety, as despair may be supposed to
dictate to the 	damn'd ". 	To-day the meetings of
Satanists invariably end in unspeakable orgies of filth
and the most hideous debauchery.
The learned authors of the Malleus Malefiarum write
at length " Concerning Witches who copulate with Devils ",
and it is obvious that there is no question here 	of
animal familiars, but rather of evil intelligences who
are, it is believed, able to assume a body of flesh. 	As
Saint Augustine says, it is beyond all doubt proven
that certain devils do continually practise this unclean-
ness, and tempt others to it, which is affirmed by such
grave persons and with such confidence that it were
impudence to deny it. 	A whole catena of authorities
from the earliest times until the present day might
be cited, but the matter may be summed up as by
Delrio who writes : 	" So many sound authors and
theologians have upheld this belief that to differ from
them is mere 	obstinacy and foolhardiness ; 	for the
Saints, the Fathers 	and 	Doctors, and all the wisest
writers on philosophy agree upon this matter, the truth
of which is furthermore proved by the experience of all
ages and people."
Above all sounds the solemn thunder of the Bull of
Innocent VIII announcing in no ambiguous phrase :

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	I 9 '
" It has indeed come to our knowledge and deeply
grieved are we to hear it that many persons of both
sexes, utterly forgetful of their souls' 	salvation and
straying far from the Catholic Faith have (had com-
merce) with evil spirits, both incubi and succubi."
The incubus (the word derives from post-classical
Latin and literally means one who lies upon anything)
is the demon who assumes a male form, the succubus
or succuba (from late Latin, literally meaning one who
IiGs under anything, a harlot) is the demon when assum-
ing a female form, and the famous Dominican Charles
RCnC 	Billuart in his 	Treatise 	upon 	the 	Angelic 	Hosts
explicitly informs us : " The same evil spirit may serve
as a succubus to a man, and as an incubus to a woman."
Commenting upon the passage in the Book of Genesis
(vi, 4), " the sons of God came in unto the daughters
of men, and they bare children to them," Pope Benedict
XIV explains : " This passage has reference to those
Demons who are known as incubi and succubi."
Dom Dominic 	Schram, 	a 	celebrated Benedictine
theologian, emphatically lays down : 	" It is certain
that-whatever 	doubters may say-there 	exist such
demons, incubi and succubi. . . . Wherefore the men
or women who suffer these impudicities are sinners
who either invite demons . . . or who freely consent
to demons when the evil spirits tempt them to commit
such abominations."
From these great names, and it were an easy matter
to quote a hundred more, it will be seen that the
Fathers and Saints, and all scholars and theologians
of importance affirm the possibility of commerce with
incarnate evil intelligences. 	The question rises and
must be briefly answered how demons or familiars,

Ig2 	THE BLACK MASS
seeing that they are pure spiritual beings, can not only
assume human flesh but thus perform the peculiarly
carnal acts of coition and generation.
Following the opinion of Guazzo, who is supported
not only by Plato, Philo, Josephus, and other ancient
writers, but also by St. Augustine, St. Jerome, and the
consensus of all theologians, Lodovico Maria Sinistrari,
in his famous treatise 	Demonialip 	answers that 	the
Demon assumes the corpse of another human being,
male or female, as the case may be, or else that from
a commixture of other materials he shapes for himself
a body endowed with motion by means of which it
is possible for the evil spirit to have sexual intercourse
with human beings. 	In this latter instance advantage
might be taken, no question, of a person in a medium-
istic trance or hypnotic sleep. 	Jacopo 	de Voragine
relates how once when a priest was sorely tempted by
a beautiful woman who entered his chamber in 	a
state of nudity he took his stole and threw it round her
neck. 	With a shriek she fell to the ground, and there
lay the rotting corpse of a harlot who had been many
days dead.
There is yet another explanation which seems equally
possible. 	Can we not look to the phenomena observed
in connexion with ectoplasm as an explanation of this ?
Again 	and 	again in 	materializing 	dances 	physical
forms which may be touched and freely handled are
built up and presently disintegrate in a few moments
of time. In a symposium Sumival Miss Felicia Scatcherd
relates certain of her own experiences that go far to
prove the partial re-materialization of the dead by the
utilizing of the material substance and ectoplasmic
emanations of the living. 	Mr. Godfrey Raupert in

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	'93
his 	Modern 	Spiritism 	describes in considerable detail
how at these experiments and sittings an entire human
form " is fully and immediately ' materialized ', . . .
The solidity and life-likeness of these forms would seem
to depend very largely upon the sensitive and the sitters.
If the conditions are very favourable they may have
all the characteristics of real human beings with all
the functions of a human body in full working order.
The pulse or the heart may be felt to be beating, and
the organs of sight or of speech or of hearing to be
acting to perfection. . . . The forms have been known
to remain materialized for a considerable time, to have
apported 	flowers and 	other light 	articles, 	to 	have
carried on prolonged 	and interesting conversations,
and to have acted in other respects like ordinary human
beings, possessing and operating in an ordinary human
body ".
Here then we have an ample solution of the activities
of the incubi and succubi, and although neither of
these explanations precludes the other, 	I 	take this
latter to be the more general from the fact that the
incubus can assume the shape of some person whose
embraces the witch may 	desire. 	There are many
recorded instances of this, and it is alluded to by the
dramatist 	Middleton 	in 	his 	play 	T h 	Witch 	when
Hecate says :-
What young man can we wish to pleasure us,
But we enjoy him in an incubus ?
Thus when the young gallant Almachildes visits her
abode, she exclaims :-
'Tis Almachildes-the 	fresh blood stirs in me-
The man that I have lusted to enjoy :
I've had him thrice in incubus already.

I94 	THE BLACK MASS
That is the early seventeenth century, and at the end
of the nineteenth we find that Huysmans in Ld-Bas
introduces the occultist Ledos under the name Gkvingey
who discusses in some detail the question of incubi
and succubi, relating instances which have come under
his own knowledge. 	I do not hesitate to refer to the
pages of Huysmans as it is well known that he had
deeply studied the whole subject and he has actual
documentation for what he relates. 	The following
conversation 	takes 	place 	between 	Durtal, 	who 	is
Huysmans himself, and Madame Chantelouve. 	This
demoniacal woman in a scene of closest intimacy cries
to her lover : " You must know then that I can possess
you when and how I please, in the same way as I have
possessed Byron, Baudelaire, G6rard de Ner+al, all the
men I love . . ." 	" What can you mean ? " 	" I tell
you that I only have to desire their embrace, as you
are longing for me at this moment, and then before
I 	fall asleep . . ." 	" Well, what 	then ? " 	" You,
your real self, will-I 	know it-prove 	a mere weakling
to the Durtal who visits me at nights, whom I adore,
and whose burning kisses drive me mad ! " 	He looked
at her in amaze. 	Then in a flash he realized the truth
of those foul incvbus lusts of which Ledos had spoken.
We have seen that the Grand Master of a district
often presided over and directed the Sabbat orgies,
and then it was he, an apostate priest, who celebrated
the Black Mass. 	Sometimes also the familiar assigned
to a new witch was in the first place and under certain
conditions a 	man, one of the assembly, 	who either
approached 	her 	in 	some infernal 	disguise or 	else
embraced her without 	any attempt at concealment
of his 	individuality, 	some lusty varlet 	who 	would

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	'95
afterwards minister to her pleasure. 	For we must
bear in mind that throughout these witch-trials there
is often much in the evidence which may be explained
by the agency of human beings, not that this essentially
meliorates their offences, for the whole band of sorcerers
are acting under Satanic inspiration and are the slaves
of the devil. 	At the same time too we meet those
connexions and other dark businesses which admit of
no explanation save that of the materialization of evil
intelligences of power. 	Detailed and full as is the
evidence we possess, it frequently becomes a most
difficult matter when we are studying a particular
case to decide whether it be an instance of a witch
having had actual commerce and communion with
the fiend, or whether she was herself cheated by devils,
who mocked her, and persuading her to deem herself'
in overt union with them, thus led the wretch on to
misery and death, duped as she was by the father of
lies, sold for a delusion and by profitless endeavour
in evil.
It is probable too that a witch would 	sometimes
be served by 	an incubus or succubus 	as 	the case
might be, and sometimes by another member of the
coven. 	There are, doubtless, also many cases which
stand 	on 	the 	border-line, 	half 	hallucination, 	half
reality.
The confessions of the pupils who were in the charge
of Antoinette Bourignon afford extraordinary details
of these matters. 	They " declared that they had daily
carnal Cohabitation with the Devil ; that they went
to the Sabbaths or Meetings, where they Eat, Drank,
Danc'd, and committed other Whoredom and Sensuali-
ties ". 	To repeat the several particular accounts were

1 9 ~ 	THE BLACK MASS
superfluous. 	One may suffice for the rest, that of a
girl, named Bellot, then aged fifteen. 	She said that
her mother had taken her to a Sabbat whilst she was
still very young, 	" and 	that 	being a little Wench,
this Man-Devil was then a little Boy too, and grew
up as she did, having been always her Love, and
Caressed her Day 	and 	Night." 	A 	young sorcerer
from Lorraine, Dominic Petrone, was only twelve years
old when his mother enticed him into an abominable
marriage of this kind, in which he had much delight.
Remy observes that the demons and witches even
simulate marriages, and he records the avowals of
sorcerers who had been 	present at such ceremonies.
De Lancre describes how at the Sabbats the Devil
performs marriages 	between 	warlocks 	and 	witches,
joining 	their 	hands 	with 	a 	sneering 	benediction.
Colette Fischer of Mainz acknowledged that it was
no unusual thing for witches to wed demons, who
(it is related) feign hot jealousy and carefully watch
over their spouses. 	The Rev. John Gaule in his Select
Cases 	of 	Conscience 	touching 	Witches 	and 	W i t c haft9
published in 	1646, mentions that the same customs
prevailed in England : 	" Oft times he marries them
ere they part, either to himself, or their Familiar, or
to one another; 	and that by the Book of Common
Prayer (as a pretender to Witch finding lately told me
in the Audience of Many) .? 	The Capuchin, Jacques
D'Autun, 	writing in 1678, has a chapter upon " The
horrid 	blasphemy 	and 	beastliness 	of 	these 	mock-
marriages which are celebrated at the witches' Sabbat ".
Rebecca West, a witch of Ladord, Essex, and the
daughter of a witch, related how the devil came to
her " as she was going to bed, and told her, he would

THE 	LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	'97
marry 	her, 	and that 	she could not deny him ; 	she
said he kissed her, but was as cold as clay, and married
her that night ". He promised to be her loving husband,
and 	swore 	that 	her 	enemies were 	thenceforth 	his
enemies. 	" Then she promised him to be his obedient
wife till death, and to deny God and Christ Jesus."
A young sorcerer, Pttrone 	of Armentiitres, 	declared
that when he approached a succuba so intensely cold
and gelid did she appear that his own limbs seemed
frozen and nipped 	as with arctic snows. 	Another
warlock, Hennezel, acknowledged that he could not
accomplish any venereal act with his succuba, Schwartz-
burg, who was he verily believed hewn from ice. 	A
Suffolk witch, the widow Bush of Barton, said that the
Devil, who appeared to her as a dark swarthy youth,
" was colder than man." 	Isobel Gowdie and Janet
Breadheid of the Auldearne coven, 1662, both asserted
that the Devil was " a meikle, blak, roch man, werie
cold ; 	and 	I fand his nature als cold within me as
spring-well-water ".
This unnatural physical coldness of the Demon is
commented upon again and again by witches at their
trials in 	every 	country in 	Europe 	throughout 	the
centuries. 	Now ectoplasm is described as being to
the touch a 	cold and viscous mass comparable to
contact with a reptile, and it may be that here we
have the solution to the whole mystery.
It is extremely significant too as the pages of Boguet,
Remy, De Lancre, and many other demonologists show
this coupling with the demon was not accomplished
without physical pain. Thus Thievenne Paget declared
that the act caused her as keen agony as if she had
been in travail. Jeanne Bosdeau who was tried by the

1 9 ~ 	THE BLACK MASS
Parliament of Bordeaux in 1594 said that the demon
" had carnal knowledge of her which was with great
pain". 	The Pyrenean witches acknowledged that this
fornication with the devil caused them untold sufferings.
Temperance 	Lloyd, 	a 	Devonshire 	witch, 	confessed
that the Devil had 	carnal knowledge of her body
thrice, and always with great pain.
Moreover it is evident from the several accounts of
the Sabbat which agree in various countries that the
Devil or President of the assembly was wont to have
connexion with every one or at least \with very many
of the women present. 	The Grand Master and Officer
also exercised the right 	to select first for his own
pleasure such witches as he chose, as appears from a
passage in De Lancre who writes that after sorcerer
and sorceress had been joined in mock marriage by
the Devil he first took the bride's maidenhead.
Obviously no one human being could serve so many
women, and it follows that use must have been made
of an instrument ; the artificial phallus was employed.
This is quite clear too from the extremely detailed
description of the genital organs of the President of
the Sabbat given by the Lorraine witches to Nicolas
Remy. 	Nicole Morhle, Claude Fellet, Alexte Drigie,
and 	indeed 	the whole infernal 	sisterhood spoke of
these as monstrous beyond all conception. 	It will not
escape notice either that the Devil as drawn from the
life-for 	the sketch was doubtless made at the actual
performance--on 	the 	title-page 	of 	Middleton 	and
Rowley's masque The World tost at Tennis is abundantly
and indeed grotesquely supplied in this respect. 	He is
pictured in exactly similar fashion in more than one old
chap-book, whilst a phallus, to which reference is made


THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	' 9 9
in the text, was worn by the actor dressed up as the
monkey (Bavian) in the May-dance scene in Shakes-
peare and Fletcher's 	The Two Noble Kinsmen. 	Troops
of phallic demons formed a standing characteristic
of the old German carnival comedy. Moreover, several
of the fantastic types of the Commedia dell'arte in the
second decade of the seventeenth century were tradi-
tionally equipped in like manner.
The artificial penis was a commonplace among the
erotica of ancient civilizations ; it was very generally
utilized in Egypt, Assyria, India, Mexico, all over the
world. 	It has been found in tombs ; frequently was
it to be seen as an ex-voto ; in a slightly modified
form it is yet the favourite mascot of Southern Italy.
Often enough they do not even trouble to disguise
the thing. 	It is mentioned by the Greek writers, by
Aristophanes, Herodas, and others. 	Among the Latins
it is spoken of by Petronius and Tibullus. 	It was
familiar in the brothels of Byzantium. It was employed
by 	the Galli, priests of Cybele ; 	in the worship of
Bacchus ; in the debauched ritual of Priapus. 	A later
historian speaks of phallic ceremonies and the use of
ithyphalli in the tenth century. 	"A sterile lust, common
in the earliest times," says the Erotic Glossary of 	the Latin
Tongue. 	The Councils, the Fathers, the Doctors of the
Church ; Clement of Alexandria, Arnobius, Nicetas,
Theodoret, Lactantius, the great St. Augustine, and
many a prohibition of West and East have spoken of
these practices in terms of severest condemnation. 	It
is demonstrable then that artificial methods of coition,
common in pagan antiquity, have been unblushingly
practised throughout all the ages, as indeed they are
at the present day, and that they have been repeatedly,

200 	THE BLACK MASS
ay and vehemently, banned and reprobated 	by the
voice of the 	Church, a malison and an injunction
which would doubtless recommend them to the favour
of the Satanists, whose dark debaucheries of lust take
an additional thrill, a new glamour if they can add
to obscenity disobedience. 	Yet we have also to face
the fact that there are darker and fouler mysteries still,
hideous copulations of hell, which neither human inter-
course nor the employ of a mechanical property can
explain.
It is the universal opinion that children are born
of these horrible unions. 	These are either demoniac
monsters or prodigies of wickedness. 	They are always
in some way hideously deformed, although of course
the blemish may be concealed from sight. 	In any case
their odious and malignant nature inevitably betrays
the fiendish origin. At Toulouse in I 275, Angtle de la
Barthe, a hag of some sixty, was condemned for having
had intercourse with an evil spirit from which con-
junction she brought forth a vilely misshapen creature
whom she nourished with the flesh of infants, slain by
her or dug up from their graves in remote churchyards.
Towards the end of the seventeenth century an Essex
witch, Sarah Smith, from her commerce with a familiar
" was brought to Bed of a Strange Monster, the Body
of it like a Fish with Scales thereon, it had no Legs
but a pair of great Claws. 	. . . Which eat and fed
for some time. 	Which Monster . . . was by Command
of the Magistrates knock'd on the Head, and several
Surgeons were there to dissect it ". 	Sinistrari gives
the names of several persons who made a noise in the
world and were shrewdly suspected of being the off-
spring of the demon and a witch. 	Thomas Malvenda,

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	201
a famous Dominican writer, says that children thus
begotten are often tall, very hardy and bloodily bold,
arrogant beyond words, and desperately wicked. 	Both
Malvenda and St. Robert Bellarmine hold that Anti-
christ will be the progeny of a demon and a witch.
Others indeed have it that Antichrist will be the Devil
in 	the flesh in 	awful mockery of the Incarnation.
Be that as it may, the appalling wickedness, the power
and infinite capacity for evil of certain prominent
figures to-day can only be explained if we realize
that such must verily be the children of Satan and
witches.
A candid consideration will show that for every
detail of the Sabbat, however fantastically presented
and exaggerated in the witch-trials of so many centuries,
there is amplest warrant and unimpeachable evidence.
There is some hallucination no doubt ; there is lurid
imagination, and coarse vanity which paints the colours
thick ; but there is a solid stratum of fact, and very
terrible fact throughout. 	And 	to-day 	the 	Satanist
is as tirelessly active in our midst as ever he was in
bygone ages. 	Nay, actually the Devil is massing his
forces on every side.
Generally the Sabbat orgies lasted 	till cock-crow,
before which time none of the assembly was suffered
to withdraw. 	It is true that in the avowal of Louis
Gaufridi, executed at Aix in I 6 I o, he speaks of remain-
ing at the Sabbat two or three hours, just as he felt
inclined, but this seems altogether exceptional, and he
was moreover the Grand Master of the coven. 	That
the crowing of 	a 	cock dissolves enchantments is a
tradition of extremest antiquity. 	The Jews 	believed
that the clapping of a cock's wings will render the

202 	THE BLACK MASS
power of demons ineffectual and dissolve all magic
spells. 	The poet Prudentius sang : 	" They say that
the foul night-wandering spirits, who rejoice in dunnest
night, at the crowing of the cock tremble and scatter
in sore dismay." 	In the time of St. Benedict Matins
and Lauds were recited at dawn, and were often known
as Gallicinium, Cock-crow. 	The rites of Satan ceased
when the Office of Holy Church began.
At the hour of the Nativity, that most blessed time,
the cocks crew all night long. 	A cock crew lustily
at the Resurrection. 	A witch named Babilla Latoma
confessed to Nicolas Remy that the cock was the most
hateful of all birds to sorcerers. 	Johann Bulmer and
his wife Desirge, who belonged to a coven of Le Mans
district, said that the synagogue of sorcerers was usually
disbanded by the President and the familiars proclaim-
ing : 	" H o ! Speed all and away-away 	! For 	the
cocks begin to crow ! "
The sound of bells also is most detested by the hellish
crew, and Bishop Binsfeld in a fine passage compares
the music of church bells to the hoisting of the royal
standard of our King. 	Not only can they subdue tem-
pests but they put to instant flight devils and witches,
they breathe benediction and peace. 	It is recorded
by an Italian writer that on a certain occasion when
the debauchery of the Sabbat had been prolonged
the horrid crew were surprised to hear the Angelus
ringing out its early salutation to the Virgin Mother
from a village steeple hard by. 	The demons fled
howling and disappeared with a most noisome stench
abandoning their besotted worshippers to fare as best
they might. 	Bishop Peter Binsfeld says that the charm
was broken, the glamour dissipated, and the Sabbat

THE LOVES OF THE INCUBI 	203
vanished if one pronounced with devotion the Sacred
Names of Jesus or Mary.
The Sabbat ends. As the dawn breaks the unhallowed
crew separate in haste, and hurry each one on his
way homewards, pale, weary, and haggard after the
night of taut hysteria, of frenzied evil, hate, and vilest
excess.
The cock crows ; the Sabbat ends ; the sorcerers
scatter and flee away.

CHAPTER V
Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.
Exodus, xxii, 18.
The word Witchcraft itself belongs to Anglo-Saxon
days, and even if we possessed no other evidence of
the 	fearful prevalence in 	the 	centuries 	before 	the
Norman 	Conquest of 	wellnigh every kind of traffic
with the darker powers throughout all England the
fact that these horrid businesses were only too wide-
spread might indeed be considered amply proven when
we are able to recognize and enumerate no less than
some forty native terms denoting all kinds of black
magic and the various professors of that evil craft.
Actually the wealth of witness from laws, both ecclesias-
tical and secular, from sermons and homilies, from
leechdoms, chronicles and legend, is overwhelming.
It was in the spring of the year 597 that the Apostle
of the English, Saint Augustine, with his little company
landed on the Isle of Thanet, presently to be welcomed
by King athelbert, himself still a pagan, although his
wife and dear queen, Bertha of Paris, enjoyed the free
exercise of her religion. 	It will be readily remembered
how the King fearing some possible incantations on
the part of the strangers insisted that their first interview
should take place in the open air under the shadow of
a sacred oak, the tree worshipped by the Druids, by

FROM THE BEGINNING 	205
the ancient Celts and Teutons, by Slavs and Lithua-
nians, at Nemi, in Syria, the tree whose majesty was
revered by the whole Aryan race. 	The King's appre-
hensions, however, were speedily set at rest, and he
forthwith invited the missionaries to his royal city of
Canterbury, a barbarous and squalid place enough,
to which, however, they gladly came, as the Venerable
Bede describes, bearing the Holy Cross together with
a picture of the Sovereign King, Our Lord Jesus Christ,
and chanting in unison sweet psalms and litanies as
they went on their way.
After the death of Ethelbert in 616 great reverses
befell Christianity, and witchcraft notably increased
throughout 	the 	land. 	The 	dark opposing powers
were not easily to be driven from the fair realm of
Britain, and in 633 it seemed as if the Faith would be
wholly extinguished throughout the North of England
on account of the fierce persecutions of Penda, the
pagan King of Mercia, whose court was thronged with
wizards, diviners, and cunning women.
Rzdwald, King of the East-Angles, a most powerful
monarch who died about 627, and was fourth Bret-
walda, erected 	(as the Venerable Bede tells 	us) 	in
one and the same temple a high altar at which Mass
was said, and a side altar at which sacrifices were
offered to the devil.
In 747 was convened at the behest of Pope Zachary
the Second Council of Clovesho, which forbade all
( 6
abominations and vain pagan practices, 	wizardry,
sorcery, 	divinings, 	fortune-telling, 	periapts, 	spells,
conjurations, 	and incantations, which are 	the 	very
filth of the wicked, yea, heathen falsehood and deceit."
Continuous 	legislation, 	the 	codes 	of 	Elfred, 	of

206 	ENGLISH 	WITCHCRAFT
Edward and Guthrum, of Ethelstan, and many more
ban witchcraft, demanding the supreme penalty for
those who slay others by their spells. 	The Secular
Laws of Cnut denounce those who " love witchcrafts
to ensue them, or contrive secret murder in anywise ;
or offer evil sacrifice or by soothsaying, or perform
anything pertaining to such abominable illusions ".
By secret murder is intended any killing through 	a
charm or some kind of witchcraft. The " evil sacrifice "
is the Black Mass.
The Christian Council of the Gold Coast, of which
the Anglican Bishop of Accra is chairman, published
in January, 	1932, a lengthy memorandum dealing
with African sorceries. 	Among the powers which a
wizard is supposed to possess is " The power to inflict
disease 	and 	death 	upon 	a 	human 	victim 	without
physical contact or physical medium (popular belief
distinguishes between witchcraft and poisoning) ". The
Christian 	Council 	includes 	representatives 	of 	the
English Church Mission, of the Methodist and Presby-
terian bodies. 	It appears that some of the members
were disinclined to believe in witchcraft, but be that
as it may the warning 	of the 	Vox Populi 	of Accra
which commented adversely upon the documents is
soundest of all : " Our sincere advice to the churches
of the Gold Coast is to leave the Devil alone . . . Of
some meek strangers in Palestine it was once reported,
' We would see Jesus '. 	A Christian Council to-day
would see the Devil and his works and pay for it."
Writing in the 	Daily 	Express 	on 	3rd June, 	1933,
Mr. Arthur Hudson, K.C., 	former Attorney-General
of 	the 	Gold 	Coast, 	mentions 	several 	instances 	of
homicide by witchcraft. 	One of the earliest complaints

FROM THE BEGINNING 	207
that came before him was that of a man whose father
had been killed by a wizard. 	The wizard had been
angry with the deceased, had declared that he should
die on a certain day, and on that day the victim died.
In the present sad state of the law the murderer could
not be convicted, and Mr. Hudson wisely attempted
to frighten him by threats of punishment if any more
complaints were made concerning his activities. 	In
another instance a warlock told a man who had given
offence that as he walked home to his farm a snake
would come out of the bush and bite him, and that
he would die. 	The man was bitten exactly in this
way, and died. 	Here again the warlock could only
be intimidated in hopes that he would for the future
for very fear eschew his sorceries.
It would be easy to give many more quotations from
and 	references 	to 	Anglo-Saxon 	and 	pre-Norman
documents and writings of all kinds, but enough has
been said to show that witchcraft, known in all its aspects
throughout 	England long before the Conquest, was
ever forbidden by the Law and banned by the Church.
After the Conquest the Anglo-Saxon statutes against
witchcraft and all ecclesiastical censures and excom-
munications were in practice continued. 	William 	I
in a summary of his legislation assigns perpetual exile
as the punishment for any murder by black magic.
(The technical word in the first instance implies the
use of poison, but poison and spells were so invariably
intermingled that the terms became synonymous.) 	It
was soon found necessary to make the penalty more
severe. 	Thus the code known as the Laws of Henry I,
which may be dated about 	I I 10, decrees that any
murder, whether it be by poisoning or by witchcraft,

208 	ENGLISH 	WITCHCRAFT
is punishable with death. 	If, however, the victim has
not been killed but has been injured in body or lies
sick the offender may make compensation by payment
of a heavy fine. 	The code specifies one particular form
of 	malefic magic which was regarded 	as especially
heinous, the piercing of an image or poppet to slay
the man in whose likeness it was moulded.
In 	1071 when William I was attacking Hereward
the Wake and had abandoned all hope of capturing
the Isle of Ely, a Norman knight ventured to suggest
that 	as a last resource they should avail themselves
of the help of an old woman, who (as he said) by her
mysterious art was able to sap the defenders of their
manhood and drive them pell-mell in a panic from
their strongholds. The crone was brought to the camp
under cover of darkness, but not so secretly that the
news reached Hereward by means of a spy. The Saxon
chief, disguising himself very adroitly in rags, obtained
a lodging at the cottage of a widow where the witch
dwelt. 	He 	overheard 	the two hags conversing in
French, a language they, of course, deemed a vagrom
wayfarer could not understand. At midnight the women
went down to a spring of water which ran at the end
of the garden, 	and 	concealed among the trees he
watched whilst they invoked the 	" guardian of the
springs ", a demon who answered in a hoarse and
horrible voice. 	In consequence he was able to employ
a counter-spell. When the enemy with great confidence
made their next sally, the witch was stationed in a
high chariot in their midst to ply her art whilst they
fought. 	The Normans, however, were routed with
heavy loss, and the sorceress being cast to the ground
was slain in the m&lt!e.

FROM THE BEGINNING 	5-9
That such foul creatures, ever ready to work harm,
literally swarmed throughout England in those cen-
turies cannot be doubted, even as it is certain that
Satanists infest the country in our own time. 	Again
and 	again 	the 	laws-silent 	to-day-forbade 	and
penalized sorcery and enchantments. 	Nor can we be
surprised that on occasion persons tormented by some
sorceress have suddenly and violently avenged them-
selves, as 'when John of Kerneslawe was surprised one
evening by a hideous hag who entering his cottage
struck him smartly with her staff, and in a moment
all his limbs were writhen and racked with pain. 	In
self-defence, as against the devil, he snatched up 	a
javelin and struck her through so that she died. 	But
John fell into a delirium and ran lunatic, nor did he
recover his wits until the clergy of the district very
properly ordered that the body of the witch should
be burned to ashes.
There was a terrific scandal in 	1303 when one of
the chief men in the realm, Walter Langton, Bishop
of Coventry and treasurer of Edward 	I, was delated
before Pope Boniface VIII as a notorious warlock and
of worshipping the Demon with obscene ceremonies.
After 	a 	most 	searching 	inquiry 	the 	incriminated
prelate proved able successfully to clear himself of the
crime.
There seems little doubt that politics were mixed
up in this case, as they most certainly were the motive
of the famous trials of 1324 when no less than twenty-
seven defendants were brought before the King's Bench
for murder by fashioning and tormenting a wax image.
Upon All Hallows E'en, 	1323, a number of Coventry
men went privately to the house of a notorious " nigro-

210 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
mauncer ", John of Nottingham, who was then living
in their town, and having bound him and his man,
Robert 	Marshall from Leicester, to closest secrecy,
paid him a large sum of money to undertake the slaying
of King Edward 11, the royal favourite young Hugh
le Despenser, and other great men of quality. The old
warlock and his servant forthwith set to work. A remote
and ancient manor, some half a league from Coventry,
was the scene of their operations. 	In this horrible
haunted house they set about their work. 	They were
well feed, and provided with seven pounds of fair
white wax and two ells of superfine canvas to fashion
the mommets, the King with a gilded crown on his
head, 	Monsieur 	Hugh, 	and 	the 	rest. 	Long 	and
thoroughly they laboured at their modelling. 	It was
resolved that first they would make an experiment
upon Richard de Sowe, a courtier whom they hated.
Accordingly 	they 	moulded 	their 	figurine, 	and 	at
midnight on the Friday before the Feast of Holy Rood
(3rd May) Master John gave Marshall a long leaden
pin bidding him thrust boldly two inches deep into
the forehead of the doll. 	The next 	morning the
servant went to de Sowe's 	house upon some casual
errand to learn that he was writhing on his bed in
agony, uttering piercing cries with burning pains in
the head and frantically delirious whilst the physicians
were at their wits' 	end to diagnose the mysterious
malady. 	And so he lingered until some days later
the warlock drew the pin from the brow and struck
it featly into the heart of the image. 	Whereupon de
Sowe expired, and Marshall panicky 	and dithering
with fear rushed off to the Sheriff, one Simon Crozier,
before whom he confessed all that had been going on,

FROM THE BEGINNING 	211
which immediately resulted in the arrest of Master John
and the whole gang of conspirators. 	Shame to say
the wealthy burgesses greased the palm of justice and
escaped, but Master John was not so lucky for he died
in durance on the very eve of the trial, whilst the
unfortunate wight who blabbed was sent back to prison
to abide there.
In the forty-Hth year of Edward 111, that is to say
I 37 1, a Southwark man was brought before the King's
Bench upon a charge of sorcery. He was found to have
in his wallet the mummified head and embalmed hands
of a dead man, a skull, and a grimoire. 	In spite of
such damning evidence the Chief Justice, 	Sir John
Knyvet, only required him to take solemn oath that
he would never practise any kind of witchcraft nor
cast a spell for good or ill, whilst the book and the
loathly relics of mortality were burned in TothiU Fields.
In 1376 the so-called " Good Parliament " openly
charged 	Alice 	Perrers, 	the 	fascinating 	mistress of
Edward 	I11 with witchcraft, and declared that she
maintained in her house a mysterious Dominican, " who
in outward 	show professed 	physic " 	but 	by whose
experiments Alice had allured the King to her unlawful
love. 	He had fashioned a rare ring of memory the
virtue whereof was to keep the doting monarch ever
mindful of the lady.
Under Richard I1 and Henry IV there were constant
prosecutions of conjurors and traffickers in black magic,
whilst Henry 	V 	was plainly very- much perturbed
about the increase of sorcerers in his realms. 	He even
prosecuted his stepmother,Joan of Navarre, for attempt-
ing his life by witchcraft, and her confessor, a Fran-
ciscan, John Randolf, an admitted adept, was lodged

212 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
in the Tower. 	There seems little doubt that the friar
had 	moulded 	wax 	figurines 	after 	the 	traditional
manner.
Dames of high degree indeed seem to have been
particularly 	implicated 	in 	accusations of witchcraft
employed for 	political 	motives, 	and 	we 	frequently
have 	very full 	details of such 	cases 	chronicled of
course owing to their notoriety and importance, hun-
dreds of similar instances in the lower walks of life
passing unrecorded. 	Thus in I 44 I 	Eleanor Cobham,
Duchess 	of 	Gloucester, 	wife 	of 	" the 	Good 	Duke
Humphrey ", '' sometime Protector of England," was
" arrested and put in hold, for she was suspect of
treason ". It was found that she was deeply implicated
in the witchcrafts and sorceries of a learned astrologer,
Roger Bolingbroke, with whom also were concerned
Thomas Southwell, a canon of St. Stephen's ; Sir John
Hume a priest ; 	William Woodham ; and Margery
Jourdemain, 	a witch of the vilest antecedents. 	Boling-
broke asserted that he had " wrought the said necro-
mancy" 	at the duchess' command but it was with a
view to ascertain " to what estate she should come ",
(in other words her chance of succeeding to the throne)
and not to plot any treason against the king. 	There
can be little doubt, however, that the death of Henry VI
was being attempted according to the orthodox mode
of piercing and melting wax images. 	Bolingbroke was
hanged at Tyburn, beheaded and quartered ; Canon
Southwell died in prison ; whilst Mother Jourdemain,
" the Witch of Eye " (the Manor of Eye-next-West-
minster), who had been imprisoned on a charge of
sorcery eleven years before but afterwards discharged,
was burned at the stake in Smithfield, since she was

FROM THE BEGINNING 	* I 3
guilty of high treason as well as malefic magic. 	The
Duchess of Gloucester was compelled to do public
penance, walking the streets of London barefoot and
bareheaded, in a white shift, and carrying a lighted
taper of two pounds weight. 	She was then confined
for life at Peel Castle in the Isle of Man, a fastness
yet horribly haunted by her unquiet ghost.
Before his execution Bolingbroke was set on a high
pladbrm outside St. Paul's, whilst a rousing sermon was
preached to the crowd. 	He was dressed in his magic
robes, holding a huge scimitar in his right hand and
a great gilt sceptre in his left, " arrayed in that marvel-
lous array he was wont to don when about his magic."
Upon the scaffold was also placed his necromantic
throne, a chair of subtle wizardry, curiously painted,
wherein he used to sit when he wrought his dark craft,
and on the four corners of the chair stood four swords
and from every sword there hung an image of a foul
fiend graven in copper. 	Such chairs are still occasion-
ally to be found. 	In 1929 I saw a very fine specimen
then in the possession of Mr. John Jennings. 	This was
of mahogany, and inserted in the back showed the
painting of a magician, holding his .wand of power,
and surrounded by demons. 	The picture was covered
by an elegantly shaped shield of bevelled Vauxhall
glass. 	On the arms and seat were various mystic
devices inlaid and piquks in brass. 	Other instruments
appertaining to Bolingbroke's 	craft and which had
been found in his closet were displayed, stars, pentacles,
cups, censers, images of silver and other metals, together
with waxen mommets not a few. 	Thomas Southwell
used to say Mass at an altar in the Lodge of Hornsey
Park over 	c c certain instruments fit for the craft 	of

214 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
necromancy ". 	He had celebrated a requiem for the
living king, and had also baptized a wax figurine of
Henry, piercing it with a sharp bodkin. 	The case
not being proved against SirJohn Hume and Woodham,
they were acquitted.
Even Jacquette de Luxembourg, Duchess of Bedford,
and mother-in-law of Edward 	IV was attacked by
evil tongues who declared that she had fashioned two
puppets to compel the king to love her daughter.
There were also rumours of a mysterious figure, the
image of a soldier, about a finger's length, but broken
in the midst and mended with wire which the lady
used for purposes of magic. 	The Duchess made her
plaint to the Privy Council, and the whole thing broke
down utterly, which did not, however, hinder Richard
of Gloster some years later when he was aiming at
the throne reviving the scandals, and declaring that
his brother's mamage with Elizabeth was invalid as
having been contrived 	" by sorcery and witchcraft,
committed by the said Elizabeth and her mother ".
He also charged them together with that other witch
of their counsel, Shore's wife, with wasting his body
by their spells, and did not hesitate to pull up his
sleeve and show his shrunken withered arm to the
6 6
Privy 	Council, swearing that thus 	yonder sorceress,
my brother's wife " and her company had plagued him,
whereas 	all 	present 	knew 	well 	that 	he 	had 	been
deformed from birth. 	And so Jane 	Shore must do
public penance therefor, and walk the London streets
clad only in a shift, barefoot, and carrying a lighted
taper.
Throughout the fifteenth century there were prosecu-
tions of the smaller fry, and an almost continuous list

FROM THE BEGINNING 	2 1 5
of cases, year after year, might be recorded. 	Thus
Richard Walker, a chaplain, is accused by the Prior
of Winchester of sorcery, and is found to have in his
closet a beryl stone for divining, two grimoires, and
two dolls of wax. 	In 1444 there was publicly punished
in London a man " the which wrought by a wicked
spirit the which was called Oberycom, and the manner
of his process and working was written and hanged
about his neck when he was in the pillory ". 	In 1500
Thomas Wright, a Premonstratensian Canon of Sulby
Abbey, near Market Harborough, came under grave
suspicion for " using books of experiments ", and for
having bribed 	a 	mysterious 	" vagabond " 	to teach
him the way of occult science.
At the trial of the Duke of Buckingham, twenty-one
years later, an accusation of sorcery supported the
capital charge of high treason. 	He had consulted
with Dom Nicholas Hopkins, a monk of the Hinton
Charterhouse, of whom he inquired 	concerning the
King's death-a 	fatal question, if true. 	It was also
alleged that the Duke had been heard to say that
Cardinal Wolsey was an idolater and sorcerer, nourish-
ing a familiar, who advised him how to keep the royal
favour.
When Henry VIII was beginning to grow a little
weary of the gospel light that gleamed from Boleyn's
eyes he whispered 	to 	some convenient friend that
unquestionably he had " made the marriage seduced
by witchcraft ", a self-evident fact since God denied
him a son. 	Before the birth of Elizabeth indeed a
whole 	horde 	of 	occultists 	had 	been 	consulted 	to
determine the sex of the child. 	All plumped for a
boy, and when the royal mistress was delivered of a

216 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
girl it was felt to be to " the great reproach of the
astrologers, sorcerers, and sorceresses ".
The very comprehensive ' Bill against conjurations
and witchcrafts ", 1542, by which all using occult
arts, were it even to discover stolen goods, are adjudged
guilty of felony with pain of death, was short-lived
enough, being repealed in the first year of Edward VI,
1547.
It was at the beginning of the reign of Elizabeth that
drastic measures were 	taken against the black art.
Although drafted soon after her accession it was not
until 1563 that the measure passed on to the statute-
book and became English law. 	In 1604 this act was
repealed under James 	I, and a new act passed. 	It
may be convenient very briefly to sum up the provisions
of the two acts. 	Both prescribe the death penalty for
Employing or. Exercising Witchcraft with the intent
to kill or destroy. To hurt persons in body or to waste
and destroy goods under Elizabeth for the first offence
was punished with a year's 	imprisonment and 	the
pillory 	" by the space of six hours " each quarter ;
for a second offence imprisonment for life. 	Under
James the first offence in this kind was punishable with
death. 	To employ witchcraft to find treasure or stolen
goods both Acts punished with a year's imprisonment
and the pillory. 	A second offence of this nature meant
perpetual 	imprisonment 	under 	Elizabeth ; 	under
James, death. 	The same penalties were attached to
the felony of provoking persons to unlawful love by
witchcraft, or indeed to employing witchcraft for any
ends whatsoever. 	By the Act of James the consulting,
covenanting with, entertaining, employing, feeding or
rewarding any evil spirit was punishable with death.

FROM T H E BEGINNING 	* I 7
The same penalty was prescribed for invocation or
conjurations of demons, as also for taking up any dead
body from the grave, or securing any skin, bone, or
part of a corpse to employ in any manner of witchcraft
or enchantment. 	Such is the main tenor 	of these
Acts. 	There 	are ancillary penalties ; 	forfeiture of
property, loss of clergy. 	The Act of Elizabeth was
automatically repealed by the Act of James 	I. 	The
Act of James I remained law until the reign of George 11,
736.
It should be remarked that the death sentence for
a witch was " to be hanged by the neck until he or
she be dead ". 	It is generally, but most erroneously
supposed, that in England the stake was the doom of
a witch and that she was burned alive. Some few witches
such as Margery Jourdemain 	under Henry VI and
Mother Lakeland of Ipswich in 1645 were burned at
the stake, but this was because they were guilty of
treason. 	The former was convicted of high treason
against the King ; 	the latter of petty treason, she
had killed her husband by sorcery. 	In Scotland the
witch was burned, 	sometimes alive, and sometimes
after being strangled at the stake. 	This too was the
general custom on the Continent. 	Sometimes also
(but infrequently) witchcraft was combined with heresy,
for which the penalty was fire. By an Act of Henry VIII
poisoning was punishable by " death by boiling ", and
the witches were adepts in the art of poisoning, but no
case has been quoted (so far as I am aware) in English
records where a witch was thus executed.
Statistics which have been very carefdy investigated
and compared show that there were more trials for
witchcraft during the two and forty years of Elizabeth

218 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
than throughout the entire seventeenth century. 	It
may 	be remarked 	that 	during the whole reign 	of
James I, twenty-two years, not more than forty execu-
tions for witchcraft have been traced. 	The popular
tradition which so confidently affirms that the most
responsible and prominent figure in the history of
English witchcraft is King James 	I, whose accession
from Scotland to the English throne fanned expiring
embers into a blazing flame and fearfully energized
a furious and long unbated flood of persecution sending
literally thousands of crazy gaffers and doting beldames
to torture and to death is, be it said once and for all,
the merest figment of ignorance.
Under James there was only one material change in
the existing law which could be termed more rigid,
and it is significant that in 1622 when Edward Fairfax,
the translator of Tasso, accused six women who were
duly brought before the York Assizes of bewitching his
two daughters, although the evidence seems conclusive
and the jury found a true bill, the Judge after hearing
several witnesses pronounced that the matter " reached
not to the point of the statute ",stopped the trial and
discharged the prisoners.
One of the most notorious of Elizabethan cases was
that of the Witches of St. Osyth. 	This little village
stands on a creek of the River Colne, fitly described as
" the lonely waters of St. Osyth Creek with its derelict
quay of rotting timber ". I t is situated some four miles
from Clacton-on-Sea, and a dozen miles from Colchester.
St. Osyth, which derives its name from the daughter
of an English prince, a pious maid who preserved her
virginity even in the marriage state and who founded
a nunnery in this place erstwhile called Chick, where

FROM THE BEGINNING 	219
she was martyred by Danish pirates in 653-her 	feast
is kept on the 7th October-is 	one of the oldest inhabited
spots in the country, having been a Royal demesne of
King Cnut. 	To-day there is a population of between
fourteen and fifteen hundred.
Here at the end of the sixteenth century dwelt in a
wretched cottage with her eight-year-old bastard son,
Thomas Rabbet, a woman of ill repute, Ursula Kemp
alias Grey, who eked out a scanty maintenance by
acting 	as 	midwife, 	nursing children, 	harlotry, 	and
various kinds of magic, both black and white, which
included " unwitching " the sick. 	Davy, the son of
a neighbour, Grace Thurlow, a poor and needy woman,
fell sick, and amongst other gossips Ursula Kemp came
to see the child. Taking him by the hand she muttered
some mysterious words, and the lad was almost imme-
diately restored to health. 	Her suspicions confirmed,
Grace Thurlow refused to allow Ursula Kemp to nurse
a newly born baby girl. 	Soon afterwards the infant
fell out of the cradle and broke its neck, an accident
the mother pretty plainly attributed to the vengeance
of the witch. 	Hereupon Ursula Kemp threatened her
with lameness, to which she made sharp reply : " Take
heed, Ursley, thou hast a naughty name." 	But soon
enough Grace Thurlow was crippled with pain, so that
she could scarcely drag herself about the room on her
hands and knees. 	Complaint was made to Mr. Brian
Darcy, 	high 	sheriff 	of 	the 	county, 	who 	promptly
examined young Thomas Rabbet, and there was soon
unripped 	a 	whole 	coven 	of 	Satanists. 	At 	length
Ursula confessed the crimes of witchcraft and murder.
The death of Grace Thurlow's baby would have been
easy enough to accomplish, and it seems quite plain

220 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
that Ursula Kemp, who was the chief of the St. Osyth's
witches, 	had 	been initiated 	into all the 	secrets of
poisoning, which horrid art was so universally practised
by the wise-women and conjurers of the day, both at
home and abroad.
Ursula Kemp herself entertained four puckrels or
familiars ; two other members of the gang, Alice Hunt
and Margery Salmon, the daughters of old Mother
Barnes, a notorious witch, had two spirits, bequeathed
them by their mother ; Elizabeth Bennett also had two
familiars ; whilst Annis Herd nourished no less than
six small imps. 	Terrible was the mischief the coven
had wrought before they were discovered. Five murders
lay to the count of Ursula Kemp ; Elizabeth Bennett
killed two farmers and their wives and much cattle ;
Elizabeth Eustace had slain seven cows and a number
of pigs, wellnigh 	ruining their owner ; Joan Robinson
overlooked geese and a litter of pigs, drowned cows,
struck horses with spavins, and men with a wasting
sickness ; Cecilia Celles, a labourer's wife of Clacton,
and Alice Mansfield had burned ricks, standing corn,
and a barn stored with grain. 	And so the trial pro-
ceeded 	with 	guilty 	confessions, accusations, 	bitter
recriminations, and counter-accusations until sixteen
perions were involved. 	Thirteen witches were con-
victed, ten at least of whom were guilty of murder by
sorcery and were executed. 	The accounts are a little
confused, and it may be that the whole thirteen suffered.
In a chapel of the south aisle belonging to the parish
church of St.'Peter and St. Paul, St. Osyth, is a mural
tablet to Brian Darcy, High Sheriff of Essex, who died
on 	25th December, 	1587. 	Outside one of the old
cottages is affixed a notice " Step Right In Here to

FROM THE BEGINNING 	22 I
See the Genuine Skeleton of a 	Witch. 	Admission
Three Pence ". 	In a deep pit at the end of the garden,
protected by timber rails and a wooden cover lies the
skeleton of a woman, a horrid sight ! 	Great iron nails
have been driven through the knees and ankles. 	They
were fixed years ago lest the unhappy soul should
reanimate those bleaching bones and send the terror
walking abroad in the night.
It must not be forgotten that in the days of Elizabeth,
and the two kings her successors there lived wise men
and seers whose practices very nearly trenched upon
witchcraft, if indeed they were not entirely necroman-
tical, but who were consulted and protected by the
great ones at court, aristocratic ladies and men of the
first quality. 	Such were the famous Dr. John 	Dee,
who was employed by Leicester as a conjurer and
figure-caster, and who was " continually busied about
one thing and 	another at the fancy " of Elizabeth
herself. 	It was he who named the 14th January, 1559,
as a happy day for her coronation. 	There were also
his scryers, Barnabas Saul, and the enigmatical Edward
Kelley, in whose story sober fact and wild romance are
so inextricably blended that it is hard to know what
to believe. 	There was Dr. Simon Forman who set up
in London as an astrologer in 	1583, and obtained a
large practice amongst the amatory court gallants and
light wanton ladies, who was frequently imprisoned
at the instance of medical and other authorities, but
who was granted a licence as a physician by Cambridge
University in 	1603. 	He was a magician professed,
and one who knew the guilty secrets of Somerset and
the Countess of Essex. 	The all-powerful favourite,
Buckingham, protected Dr. John Lambe, who was even

1 2 2 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
more notorious as a 	sorcerer than 	Forman. 	The
" Duke's 	devil " 	they dubbed 	him. 	William 	Lilly
and John Booker were in some sort of the same line
as these occultists, and one remembers the trick of
the scapegrace Earl of Rochester who masqueraded
as Alexander Bendo professing inter alia " Astrological
Predictions, 	Divination 	by 	Dreams ", 	and 	whose
lodging c c in Tower-Street, next door to the sign of the
Black Swan, at a Goldsmith's House" 	was crowded
by the wits and lovely cyprians of the Whitehall of
Charles 	11. 	Even 	the 	celebrated 	Oxford 	mathe-
matician, Thomas Allen, of Gloucester Hall (Worcester
College) who died in 	1 6 3 2 	was commonly reputed
to command familiars, and to have learned his science
from the astral spirits he could evoke at will.
I am inclined to believe that the case of the Lanca-
shire witches-perhaps 	the most celebrated case in the
history of English witchcraft-may 	have gone far to
bolster the false idea that King Jamesy reign was a
period of fanatical malevolence when " the judges and
magistrates, the 	constables and 	the 	mob 	began 	to
hunt up as their lawful prey " old women from every
nook and chimney corner.
The first trial of the Lancashire witches took place
in I 6 1 2 . 	Some five and twenty years before that date
Elizabeth 	Sowtherns, better 	known 	as old 	Mother
Demdike, encountered in Pendle Forest an evil spirit
(whom she had probably invoked) to whom she sold
her soul. At once she became an active missionary for
the Satanists, and although at first the way was slow
about five years later she persuaded Anne Whittle
or 	Chattox 	" to 	condescend 	and 	agree to 	become
subject unto that 	devilish abominable profession of

FROM THE BEGINNING 	223
witchcraft ". 	Henceforward these two wretches and
all their families practised witchcraft. Mother Demdike
brought in her married daughter Elizabeth Device,
and 	her grandchildren, 	Alison and James 	Device ;
Mother 	Chattox proselytized 	to evil her daughter,
Anne Redfearn. 	The infection spread, and even a
woman of some degree, Mrs. Elizabeth Nutter, joined
the coven. 	Later a violent quarrel took place between
the 	Devices 	and 	the 	Chattox 	family, 	each 	party
endeavouring to harm the friends and relations of the
other. Terrible mischief ensued, and the coven became
bolder and bolder, almost openly holding their Sabbats
at the lonely Malking Tower on the further slope of
the high hill which shuts in Rough Lee glen, not far
from the old road to Gisburn.
Malkin's Tower . . . where
Report makes caitiff witches meet to swear
Their homage to the devil, and contrive
The deaths of men and beasts.
A veritable reign of terror oppressed the whole country-
side and everyone went in mortal fear of the witches.
At length towards the end of March, 	I 612, 	Mr. Roger
Nowell, 	a Justice of the Peace, caused old Demdike
and Alison Device, Mother Chattox and her daughter
to be brought before him. 	Their confessions were such
that he committed them to Lancaster Castle. 	Even
during 	their 	imprisonment 	the 	rest 	of 	the 	coven
proved so audacious as to hold a Sabbat at Malking
Tower on the following Good Friday. 	This led to
further arrests. 	At the Assizes no less than nineteen
prisoners were put on their trial, of which number
ten were executed, murder by witchcraft having been
clearly proved against them. 	Old Demdike had died

224 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
in gaol. They were shown to be guilty of every circum-
stance of sorcery, and were as dangerous a gang of
Satanists as very well could be. 	As Dr. G. B. Harrison
says : 	" the Lancaster 	trial 	reveals 	the practice 	of
the witch-cult in its full horror 	. . . There seems, in
short, to have been little injustice in the sentences
passed at Lancaster in August, I 612."
The case of the Second Lancashire Witches occurred
in 1633-34, 	and was to a large extent a recrudescence
of the former Pendle scandals. 	The affair, which
presents several interesting features, came to an end
when, as many as seventeen suspected persons having
been 	tried 	and 	condemned, 	all 	upon 	further
investigation were pardoned by Charles I.
Towards the 	end 	of the reign 	of this monarch,
almost 	immediately 	upon 	the 	outbreak 	of 	the
Rebellion, a veritable epidemic of witchcraft swept
through the Eastern Counties, and there emerges the
extraordinary figure of Matthew Hopkins " commonly
callyd Witch Finder General1 ". 	The Holy Scripture
tells us that Rebellion and 	Witchcraft go hand in
hand, 	and it is not surprising to find that during
those troublous years the land was corrupt to the core
with sorcery. 	Hopkins, the son of James 	Hopkins,
minister of Wenham, Suffolk, had practised the law
at 	Ipswich 	first, and 	then 	at 	Manningtree, 	Essex.
It was in his own town that his attention was drawn
to witchcraft for a whole coven, " seven or eight of that
horrible sect of Witches living in 	the Town where
he lived . . . with divers other adjacent Witches of
other Towns " 	on Friday nights held their 	Sabbat
close by his house, and 	" had 	their several solemn
sacrifices offered to the Devil ". 	He at once proceeded

A YORKSHIRE WITCH AND HER IMPS
From a contemporary drawing, 1622
[face p. 224


FROM THE BEGINNING 	225
to inquire into these mysterious doings with the result
that numerous arrests were made. This was in March,
1 6 4 5 . 	His campaign once begun, Hopkins who had
got great glory from the business, zealously extended his
operations and 	was eager to 	smell out witches in
every direction. Accordingly he commenced a kind of
visitation 	in 	which 	he 	was 	accompanied 	by 	his
lieutenant-so 	to 	speak-John 	Stearne, 	who
strenuously aided and abetted him, and also by 	an
assistant Goody Phillips whose special province lay in
discovering 	the 	witch-mark 	on 	the 	bodies 	of 	the
accused. 	It was a very profitable concern, and it has
been calculated that between them the trio must have
netted 	far more than 	a 	thousand 	pounds, 	a 	very
considerable sum in those days. 	The usual methods
employed by Hopkins were searching for the devil's
mark ; 	watching the witch, which meant 	that the
suspected person tied with cords in an uneasy posture
was kept without food or drink for twenty-four hours
and not allowed to sleep, since it was believed that
then her imps, in the shape of spiders or a fly or a
wasp were bound to appear ; walking the witch, that
is to say compelling a person to hurry up and down
a room at a great rate until of very weariness and pain
a confession was extorted ; and swimming the witch.
This last ordeal was greatly favoured by 	Hopkins
and his satellites, but so notoriously illegal was such a
test that he was at last compelled to relinquish it.
The old story that Hopkins himself was seized by
the irate people, 	accused of being 	a 	wizard, 	and
swum in a pond where he was drowned has no sort
of 	foundation 	in 	fact. 	He 	died 	peaceably 	at
Manningtree " after a long sickness of a Consumption

226 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
. . . without any trouble of conscience for what he had
done, as was falsely reported of him ". 	The Church
Registers record his burial, 	12th August, 1647. 	From
1645 to 	1647 he had brought at least a couple of
hundred to the gallows. 	This is shown by Stearne,
who 	in his 	Conjrmation 	and Discovery 	of 	Witch-craft,
published the year after Hopkins' 	death, writes how
he was himself in part 	an agent in searching out
witches, 	" being about two hundred 	in number, in
Essex, 	Suffolk, Northamptonshire, 	Huntingdonshire,
Bedfordshire, Norfolk, 	Cambridgeshire, and the Isle
of Ely in the 	County of Cambridge, 	besides other
places, justly 	and 	deservedly 	executed 	upon 	their
legal trials."
It is not at all to be wondered at that during the
Rebellion 	and 	under 	the 	Commonwealth 	the 	evil
weed 	of 	witchcraft 	spread 	so 	rapidly 	throughout
England and that sorcerers fouled the whole land since,
as is now proved beyond any shadow of doubt, Oliver
Cromwell was 	a 	Satanist, 	intimately 	leagued 	with
the powers of darkness to whom he had sold his soul
for 	temporal 	success. 	After 	1642, indeed, 	as 	the
historian Eachard has well remarked : " Blasphemies,
Heresies, 	Enthusiasms, 	and 	Witchcrafts 	were 	in 	a
full tide." 	In my GeograPhy of 	Witchaft, 	published
ten years ago, 	I 	drew attention to the pact which
Cromwell had made with the devil, and related his
interview with the fiend before the battle of Worcester.
In 	The 	Occult Review, April, 	1936, Mr. 	S. 	Everard
has an article " Oliver Cromwell and Black Magic "
in which he presents irrefutable evidence that Crom-
well 	derived his power from the 	exercise of black
magic. 	Mr. Everard whose investigations are very

FROM THE BEGINNING 	227
thorough treats the whole subject with great fairness.
He comments upon the quite unequivocal expression
of Denzil Holles, after first Baron Holles of Ifield,
who when addressing Cromwell and Oliver St. John
speaks of the 	" Sabbaths " when " you imparted to
your 	fellow 	witches 	the 	bottom 	of 	your 	designs,
. . . a11 your falsehoods, villainies and cruelties with
your full intention to ruin three kingdoms ". 	Even
more damning is a letter in which Cromwell unbosoms
himself to that impious wretch Hugh Peter and writes
how 	the 	day 	after 	he 	received 	his 	commission
" walking in the evening in Hyde Park the Devil
appear'd to me in human shape and upon promises
of assuring the always success over my enemies, the
honour thereof tempted me to sell my soul and body
to him ". 	The infernal pact was for thirty-nine years.
And when Cromwell died at three of the clock on
the 3rd September, 	1658, there had raged for many
hours a fearful storm round Whitehall ; 	the Devil
had come for his own, folk said.
Mr. 	Everard 	makes 	a 	good 	point 	when 	he
emphasizes the horrible sacrileges and 	blasphemies
which were so common under the rule of Cromwell,
and as is well known actively encouraged and incited
by him. 	Churches were polluted and profaned in the
most revolting manner, since " the essence of Satanism
is desecration ".
The admirers of Cromwell have been absolutely
unable to answer these charges. At best they have been
forced to content themselves with sharp but not very
relevant reflections upon scholars who " burrow among
the lampoons of the Restoration ". 	I think 	I may
venture to claim some acquaintance with Restoration

228 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
literature 	and 	I 	can 	safely assert 	that 	the 	occult
practices of Cromwell are not a theme with Restoration
satirists, high or low. 	His witchcrafts are proved not
by the censure and detraction of any opponent, but
by 	historical documents whose 	genuineness cannot
be called in doubt. 	It is commonly reported that either
(as I hope) in bitter jest, or in earnest, all members of
the House of Commons were advised to make a daily
bow to the statue of Cromwell. 	This would be plain
idolatry, and something worse. 	It is sad and shameful
enough that a statue of Cromwell should ever have
been erected, sadder still that it should be allowed to
remain. 	Cromwell was a Satanist, and to my mind
it is extremely significant that the Reds should carry
a banner of Cromwell in procession.
The case of the Drummer of Tedworth which caused
so great a stir shortly after the Restoration of King
Charles 11, the knockings and the sound of a drum
which disturbed 	the household of Mr. 	Mompesson
may more properly be said to belong to poltergeist
hauntings than to witchcraft, although it is not disputed
that sorcery played its part in the phenomena.
In Somerset during the year I 664 a coven of Satanists
was discovered by Robert Hunt, a magistrate of the
Wincanton district. 	Julian Cox,, a fearful crone, who
had signed a written pact with the devil, who had
attended countless Sabbats in Brewham Forest, and who
had wrought terrible mischiefs during her threescore
years and ten was hanged. 	We are fortunate in having
very full details of the Somerset coven since Robert
Hunt entrusted Glanvil with his Book of Examinations
of Witches. 	" It contains," says that learned divine,
" the discovery of such an hellish Knot of them, and

FROM THE BEGINNING 	229
that discovery so clear and plain, that perhaps there
hath not yet any thing appeared to me with stronger
Evidence to confirm the belief of Witches."
The charges of witchcraft being proven up to the
hilt two sorceresses, Amy Duny and Rose Cullender
of Lowestoft, were hanged at Bury St. Edmunds in
March, 	1664. 	The trial is famous, largely owing to
the fact that Sir Matthew Hale was the presiding
judge 	who pronounced 	sentence, 	and 	Sir Thomas
Browne, then Dr. Browne, testified to the undeniable
truth of witchcraft, and gave it as his opinion that
the victims of these evil crones were clearly bewitched.
In 	August, 	1682, 	Temperance 	Lloyd, 	Mary
Trembles, 	and 	Susanna 	Edwards 	were 	hanged 	at
Exeter. 	All three had wasted and killed their neigh-
bours by their malefic charms. 	All three had enter-
tained familiars in filthy commerce.
The last execution for witchcraft which 	has been
traced in England is that of Alice Molland, sentenced
at the Exeter Lent Assizes of 1685.
The two cases which are still sometimes quoted,
that of 	" two notorious witches " Elinor 	Shaw and
Mary 	Phillips, 	said 	to 	have 	been 	burned 	at
Northampton 	in 	March, 	1705, 	and 	that 	of 	Mary
Hicks and her little daughter, aged nine, supposed
to have been hanged 	at Huntingdon in 	I 716, are
purely 	fictitious. 	The 	pamphlets 	which 	profess 	to
give details of these executions are mere catchpenny
invention, the Northampton incident being nothing
else than 	a hash-up of a Chelmsford witch-trial of
1645.
The last execution of a witch in Scotland took place
at Dornock in 1722. 	The last witch-trial in Ireland,

230 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
the Island-Magee Witch Trial, when five sorceresses
were sentenced 	to 	a 	year's 	imprisonment 	and 	the
pillory was in I 7 I I. 	It is true that Mary Butters, the
Carnmoney witch, was put forward for trial in 1808,
but no bill was found. 	It should be emphasized that
to quote the 	Clonmel case of 	1895 as a 	" witch-
burning " is altogether inaccurate. 	The woman was
put on the fire in the belief that she was a fairy
changeling, and that she would instantly vanish in
the flames, whilst the real wife, kidnapped by the little
people, would 	then 	return. 	The last execution in
France appears to have been that of a warlock con-
demned by the Parliament of Bordeaux in I 718. 	At
Kempten in Bavaria Anna 	Maria Schwagelin, who
was perhaps lunatic, was beheaded for sorcery in I 775.
The last time the law burned a witch in Spain was at
Seville in 	1781. 	In the Swiss Protestant canton of
Glarus, Anna Goldi was hanged as a witch in 	1782.
Two carrion hags, notorious and rampant Satanists,
were sent to the stake in Poland in 1793.
It is perhaps worth recording that the burning alive
of five witches by the Alcade Ignacio Castello of San
Jacopo in Mexico on 20th August, 1877, " with consent
of the whole population " is a myth having no sort
of foundation in fact.
Even to-day there are instances when the populace
maddened by the malice of some witch take the law
into 	their 	own 	hands, 	and 	sometimes 	with 	very
deplorable 	results. 	Thus in 	November, 	1929, 	six
natives were sentenced to death by a special court in
Swaziland. 	Their crime was the murder, with his
three wives and three children, of an elderly induna
(tribal leader), who had been 	" smelt out " by the

FROM THE BEGINNING 	23 I
witch doctors as a wizard. 	The accused avowed their
guilt, 	but 	pleaded 	that 	the 	deceased was 	a 	black
magician, and that he had cast a spell on many of
their friends, who languished and died. 	They had
set 	fire 	to 	the 	induna's 	hut, 	and 	when 	the 	seven
occupants endeavoured to escape they were assegaied
and flung back into the flames.
In November, 	1932, ten people were arrested at
Bogota, Columbia. 	The cottage of an old witch living
in the village of Sativa Norte had been set on fire
whilst she was asleep and she and her daughter burned
to death. 	In May, 	1935, a beldame of seventy-five,
commonly believed 	to be 	a 	sorceress, was rescued
by the Mexican police from being burned at the stake.
Neighbours 	had 	seized 	her, 	and 	the 	faggots were
beginning to crackle and blaze when the authorities
arrived on the scene.
Towards the end of the seventeenth century and
during the fiat decade of the eighteenth cases of witch-
craft still came before the English courts, but the judges
for the most part refused to convict. 	Sir John 	Holt,
Chief Justice of the King's Bench ( I 689-1 7 I o) ,showed
himself a notorious sceptic in these matters and secured
acquittal after acquittal. 	When Richard Hathaway,
the 	'prentice 	to 	a 	Southwark 	blacksmith, 	accused
Sarah 	Morduck 	of 	having 	bewitched 	him 	much
trouble 	ensued. 	In 	the 	end, 	however, 	Hathaway
found 	himself 	charged 	with 	rank 	imposture 	and
Sir John Holt sentenced him to a year's imprisonment
and the pillory thrice.
The case of Jane 	Wenham, the " Wise Woman of
Walkerne " caused an immense sensation in I 7 1 1-12,
and became " the discourse of London town ". 	At

232 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
the trial in March the Hertford Assizes were thronged ;
opinions were almost equally divided, and rivers of
ink flowed. 	In spite of Mr. Justice Powell's direction
and efforts to secure an acquittal the jury brought in
a verdict of guilty of witchcraft. 	Jane 	Wenham was
formally condemned, only to be reprieved and very
shortly set at liberty. 	She lived until 	1730 upon a
small pension allowed by certain 	charitable people
of quality.
The last witch-trial proper in England--or 	rather
commitment for trial-was 	that 	of an 	old 	woman
and her son at Leicester Assizes in September, 	1717,
before Lord Parker. 	The trial did not come on since
the bill was not found.
The Act of James 	I was repealed in the ninth year
of George 11, 1736, and witchcraft ceased to be a
statutory 	or 	(under 	English 	law) 	an 	ecclesiastical
offence. 	This new Act also repealed the Act " Anentis
Witchcrafts " of the Ninth Parliament of Queen Mary
of Scotland, 1563. 	I t was provided " That from and
after the said Twentyfourth 	Day of June, 	[1736],
no Prosecution, Suit, or Proceeding, shall be 	com-
menced or carried on against any Person or Persons
for Witchcraft, Sorcery, Inchantment, or Conjuration,
or for charging another with any such Offence, in
any Court whatsoever in Great Britain ". 	To prevent
and punish " any Pretences to such Arts or Powers "
whereby ignoraiit persons are frequently deluded and
defrauded, any Person who shall " pretend to exercise
or use any kind of Witchcraft, Sorcery, Inchantment,
or 	Conjuration, 	or 	undertake 	to 	tell 	Fortunes, 	or
pretend, from his or her Skill or Knowledge in any
occult or crafty Sciences, to discover where or in what

FROM THE BEGINNING 	*33
Manner any Goods or Chattels, supposed to have been
stolen or lost, may be found ", is liable to a year's
imprisonment and 	to 	be 	publicly 	pilloried 	once a
quarter for the space of one hour.
I quote from the Dail3, Mail,Friday, 3 I st May, I 935.
" Sorcery Charge Fails. 	For only the second time in
the last IOO years a charge of sorcery was brought under
the Witchcraft Act of I 736 at Carlisle Assizes yesterday.
" The accused woman, Mrs. Katie McGee, aged 35,
who was alleged to have undertaken to tell the fortune
of Mrs. Alice Rothesay, of Beckerrnet, was acquitted.
" Mr. 	Glynn Blackledge, for the prosecution, said
that the last charge under the Act was brought in
1904, and Mr. Justice Singleton interposed : ' So this
jury may be making history.' "
It may be observed that proceedings against pro-
fessional 	fortune-tellers, 	palmists, 	and 	consulting
mediums of any kind, are now generally taken under
the Vagrancy Act of I 824, which includes : 	" Every
person pretending 	or professing to tell fortunes, or
using any subtle craft, means, or device, by palmistry
or otherwise, to deceive and impose on any of His
Majesty's 	subjects." 	From the wording of the Act
it cannot apply to anyone having no intention 	to
deceive, none the less it has been held by the divisional
court 	that 	a 	person 	" telling 	fortunes ", 	however
honestly, commits an offence within the Statute. 	Such
an interpretation, it might well be argued, opens up
the widest issues, yet although there is obviously need
for a drastic reform of these vague and indeterminate
Statutes one cannot but hope that, lest a worse thing
happen, 	they 	will 	be 	left 	untouched 	until 	better
conditions prevail and 	a 	saner outlook is 	reached.

234 	FROM THE BEGINNING
Well might the Associate Presbytery in their annual
Confession of National 	and 	Personal 	Sins lament
" the 	Penal 	Statutes against 	Witches having 	been
repealed by Parliament, contrary to the express Law
of God ".
To estimate the number of executions for witchcraft
in England from the accession of Queen Elizabeth in
1558 until the Repeal of 1736 is almost an impossible
task. 	What can with perfect confidence be said is that
nearly all writers have grossly exaggerated the figures,
and multiplied by tens, even by hundreds. 	In 	his
annotations 	on 	Hudibras 	( I 744), 	the 	Cambridge
antiquary 	Dr. 	Zachary 	Grey 	remarks : 	" I 	have
somewhere seen an account of betwixt three and four
thousand [witches] that suffered in the King's domin-
ions, from the year 	1640 to the King's restoration."
Daines Barrington computes that a couple of centuries
saw 30,000 executions ; Robert Steele in Social England
says that 70,000 witches were hanged under the Act
of James 	I. 	All these figures are grotesquely inflated
and utterly unreasonable. 	Mr. L'Estrange Ewen, who
speaks with greater authority, writes : " actually the
number of executions for witchcraft in England from
I 542-1 736 may be guessed at less than I ,000."

CHAPTER 	VI
I would yet have it plainly known that I am a sworn enemy to
witches, and that I shall mvcr spare them, for thcir execrable ahminu-
tions, and for the countless numbers of them which me seen to increase
every day so it seems that we me now in the times of Antichrist, since,
among the many s i p s that are givm of his advent, this is one of the
chief, namely, that witchciaft shall then be rife throughout the wrId.
m 	1 BOCm.
Not many years ago a well-known writer inquired
of me in the public press if I could inform him when
and where the last Sabbat was celebrated. 	I did not
reply, because my answer must have been " yesterday
night" 	or 	" the night before yesterday" 	since, of
course, Sabbats are continually being celebrated by
Satanists at the present time. 	As to the place, it might
be London or any other of the cities or small towns
or even villages in England which are the centre. of
devil-worshippers.
On 	Wednesday, 	10th 	September, 	1930, 	there
appeared in The Times an article entitled " The Last
Witch. 	A Question for the Antiquary ", a question,
moreover, which wisely enough the writer did not
attempt to answer. We are informed that " there were
many parts of the British Isles where bclief in and
reprisals for witchcraft still existed when " Sir Walter
Scott's 	Letters 	on 	Demonology 	and 	Witchcraft 	" was
published in 	I 830 for Murray's 	respectable Family

236 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
Library ". 	Evidently 	The 	Times correspondent knew
nothing of witchcraft in England at a later date, and
from one point of view the article, however interesting,
was extremely futile and a full hundred years out-of-
date. 	Accidentally it proved valuable, none the less,
since it provoked a number of letters very conclusively
showing that witchcraft is no mere historical fact of
the past, but that it is active and malignant to-day.
To talk of " The Last Witch " is absurd. 	Satanism,
in some cases scarcely veiled, is rampant in our midst.
Satanist and witch are identical terms.
To suppose, again, as with some almost seems to be
the 	case that 	the 	crass materialism 	of the Act 	of
George I1 (1736) killed witchcraft is folly. 	Rather it
protected the warlock and 	the sorceress. 	The only
result of this fatuous legislation was that those who
had been injured in body or in property by a witch
took the law into their own hands, and during the
eighteenth century there are recorded from every part
of England a large number of examples of witches
being swum by the populace. 	In June, 	I 736, the very
year that the statute was passed certain witches were
swum at Twyford in Leicestershire, an affair which
gave the cue to the Rev. Joseph Juxon to preach " A
Sermon upon Witchcraft. 	Occasion'd by the Late
Illegal Attempt to Discover Witches by Swimming ".
The scepticism, one might say the rationalism of the
eighteenth 	century 	clergy 	is, 	of 	course, 	notorious.
In July, 	1737, a witch was swum in a Bedfordshire
village. 	She floated like a cork three times, but sub-
sequently when weighed against the Church Bible out-
balanced it. 	At Monk's Sleigh, Norfolk, a witch was
swum on the 19th December, 1748.

THE PRESENT DAY 	237
On 	nsnd 	April, 	1751, 	occurred 	the 	notorious
Hertfordshire swimming ordeal. 	John 	Osborne and
Ruth his wife, witches of long continuance, who had
destroyed a neighbouring farmer's stock and afflicted him
with a strange sickness, were seized by an incensed mob
and swum in 	Marston mere. 	Souse they flung the
pair into the water, and Mother Osborne did not sink.
The 	wretched 	couple, 	however, 	expired 	through
exposure and ill-treatment, and Thomas Colley, the
prime mover of this 	business, was arrested, tried for
murder at Hertford Assizes, on Tuesday, 20th July,
1751, found 	guilty 	and 	hanged 	in chains 	on 	the
following 24th August. A very shocking and deplorable
outbreak, 	no 	doubt, 	but 	the 	statute 	is 	wholly
responsible. 	The villagers could not be expected for
their own safety sake to tolerate witches among them
to rot and blast the whole community, and the infidels
who framed the law are to blame in the first place for
these 	riots 	and 	disorders 	which 	seem 	an 	almost
inevitable consequence of their imprudence and pre-
sumption.
Witches were swum in Suffolk in I 752 ; in Leicester-
shire in 	I 760 ; 	in Cambridgeshire in 	I 769. 	Two
witches who had forspoken and maimed cattle were
swum by a number of irate farmers in the Hundreds of
Essex in 	1774. 	Two years later there was a case of
swimming in 	Leicestershire.
In I 785 a poor woman, Sarah Bradshaw of Mean
Ashby, who was suspected of being a witch in order
to prove her innocence, voluntarily submitted to be
dipped. 	She immediately plumped to the bottom of
the pond, 	and 	this her 	neighbours took to be an
incontestable proof she was clear of the accusation.

238 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
Ten years later a case of swimming is reported from
Suffolk.
In February, 1808, a girl named Alice Brown, who
lived at Great Paxton, Hunts, whilst endeavouring to
cross the Ouse on thin ice fell through into the water
and with great difficulty scrambled back to the bank
where a friend, Fanny Amey, awaited her. 	As might
be expected Alice Brown became exceedingly ill, and
owing to the fright Fanny Amey was in little better
state. 	A neighbour at once proclaimed that the pair
had been overlooked. 	He told a story of a town in
Bedfordshire where 	he 	had 	recently 	been 	staying.
There a doting -crone was more than suspected of
causing a man to languish away by 	her evil spells.
Accordingly the victim filled a vessel with his urine
and heated it in a corked bottle. 	The result was that
the old woman 	was 	seen to enter the room ; 	she
hurried wildly to and fro grimacing and convulsed
as if racked with pain ; 	and then vanished with 	a
horrid yell. 	After a few days the witch died, when
the sick man was completely cured.
This 	story 	was 	repeated 	with 	immense 	effect.
Shortly it was 'bruited in Great 	Paxton that Alice
Brown, Fanny Amey, and Mary Fox were bewitched
and rumour pointed to Mrs. Anne Izzard, a farmer's
wife some sixty years of age as the sorceress. 	In vain
the Rev. 	Isaac Nicholson sternly rebuked his con-
gregation from the pulpit. 	Two or three accidents
seeming to 	confirm their 	accusations, one 	Sunday
evening of May a crowd broke into the Izzards' house.
They scratched the unfortunate woman, pricked her
with pins, pelted her, and threatened her with ducking.
With difficulty she escaped their hands, only to be

THE PRESENT DAY 	239
assaulted the following day. 	The result was that a
number of her neighbours were brought up before
Mr. Justice Grose on a charge of assault. Several were
sent to prison, and others were bound over to find
security for their good behaviour, failing which they
were remanded in custody. 	Even this did not entirely
end the matter, for in the autumn of the same year
a local magistrate committed two women, a mother
and daughter, to Huntingdon jail for assaulting Anne
Izzard and calling her witch.
A 	rousing 	" Sermon 	against 	Witchcraft " 	was
preached in the Parish Church of Great Paxton on
the I 7th July, 	1808, by Mr. Nicholson, who did not
spare his language in his denunciation of the " Two
atrocious attacks on the Person of Ann Izzard as a
reputed witch ".
In 1825 a poor old man, Isaac Stebbings, aged 67,
was 	" swum 	for 	a 	wizard " 	at 	Wickham 	Skeith,
Suffolk, and 	all 	but 	killed 	by 	an angry mob--T.
Su$blk 	Chronicle quoted in The Times, I 9th July, 	1825.
Two years later, at the Monmouth Assizes, four
persons were found guilty of assaulting an old trot
of ninety, Mary Nicolas, commonly accused of being
a witch. 	She was alleged to have overlooked cattle so
that the beasts died. 	They had scratched her with a
briar to draw blood ; searched for the devil's teat,
which they swore they had found ; and threatened to
swim her in a pool.
Writing in 	1861, Mrs. 	Lynn 	Linton 	spoke of an
" old gentleman who died at Polstead not so long ago,
and who, when 	a 	boy, had seen a witch swum in
Polstead Ponds, ' and she went over the water like a
cork ' ; who had also watched another witch feeding

240 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
her three imps like blackbirds ; and who only wanted
five pounds to have seen all the witches in the parish
dance on a knoll together ".
A magistrate who wrote anonymously to The Times
on 	3rd 	April, 	1857, related 	how 	in 	the 	previous
November application was made to him by a farmer
whose wife had 	been 	overlooked 	by 	old 	Mrs. 	C.,
demanding that 	the police might 	be instructed 	to
swim her or at least search her for the devil's mark.
When' the magistrate remonstrated the man explained
that urine had been warmed in a hermetically sealed
bottle, 	and 	sure enough 	as it 	grew hot 	Mrs. 	C.,
tormented in her bladder, has come to their kitchen
window and stood there grinning and mowing at them
through the casement. 	He added that only a few
years before a witch, Mother Pointer, had been swum
in the village pond, and it was found she could not
sink. One woman told the magistrate of a witch whom
she had known when she was a girl. 	It was never
denied that Betsy Norris had bewitched cows, pigs,
geese, and people. 	The hag was swum more than
once but could never sink., Place-names are not given
in the letter.
In 	1864 Emma 	Smith, the wife 	of a 	beer-shop
keeper at Ridgwell, 	Essex, and Samuel Stammers, a
carpenter, were convicted at the Chelmsford Assizes
of common assault for swimming in the previous year
an 	old 	Frenchman, 	called 	" Dummy ", who 	was
generally reputed to be a wizard, and who had over-
looked the female defendant. 	" Dummy," 	a deaf and
dumb gaffer of nearly ninety, at least pretended to
sorcery, and eked out a miserable living by fortune-
telling 	and 	the sale of charms. 	On 	the night 	of

THE PRESENT DAY 	241
3rd August Mrs. Smith, who had been anaemic and
ill for many months, encountered " Dummy" 	in the
taproom of the Swan at Sible Hedingham when she
loudly accused him of being the cause of her failing
health. 	The crowd, led by Stammers, egged her on
i ~ n t i lshe seized a stick and began to 	belabour 	the
'warlock, shouting : 	'' You old Devil, you served me
out, and I'll serve you out." Eventually the unfortunate
wretch was dragged to a brook which ran down the
side of Watermill Lane, and Stammers flung him into
the water at a spot where it was particularly deep.
The next day he died from shock and exposure. 	At
their trial Stammers pleaded not guilty, whilst for her
defence Emma Smith kept reiterating that she was
bewitched. 	The bench of magistrates who committed
them to the Assizes remarked that 	" the whole dis-
graceful transaction 	arose out of 	a 	deep belief in
witchcraft which possesses to a lamentable extent the
tradespeople and lower orders of the district ".
At Dunmow on the ~ 3 r d	June, 1880, two men were
convicted of assault for attempting to throw an old
witch into a pond.
In 1931 there was living at Good Easter, Essex, a
villager 	who 	in 	his 	youth 	had 	been 	before 	the
magistrates 	charged 	together 	with 	several 	of 	his
friends with an attempt to do grievous bodily harm.
They had attempted to duck an old woman who was a
notorious witch.
A parish doctor, who elected to remain anonymous,
gives an account in All the G a r Round, 5th January,
I 867, of a witch living in his district, a village " two
miles 	from a populous borough town ", within an
hour's 	railway journey from London. 	Old Mother

242 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
Redburn, 	a 	hag 	of seventy-two, 	c c was accredited
with all the recognized powers of curse and spell and
evil eye. She has bewitched pigs, and they have refused
to fatten ; 	she has bewitched cows, and they have
become dry or died ; 	children under 	her 	baneful
influence have wasted away to mere skeletons ; young
women have gone into decline ; 	young men have
been 	lamed ; 	old 	men 	and 	women 	have 	become
blind, deaf, bedridden, palsied, a prey to every human
woe, all owing-in 	the popular belief-to 	the ill-will
of Old Mother Redburn. 	Cabbages, corn, turnips,
and potatoes have all in their turn withered and rotted
before her curse." 	Shortly after he commenced prac-
tice in the place the doctor was called in to see Mrs.
Smith, who was blind with cataract in both eyes, deaf,
and bedridden. 	He could discover no reason why
she should not be able to stand and walk, but a neigh-
bour 	shrewdly 	hinted : 	" Ah ! 	we 	all 	think 	that
Mother 	Redburn 	has most to say to 	it." 	At last
Mr. Smith decided to leave the neighbourhood, " to
give the missus a chance by movin' of her " to another
c c
place. 	I suppose," queried the doctor, " you think
Mother Redburn prevents her getting well ? " 	" No
one else, sir, darn her ! " was the reply. 	" Many
years ago Mrs. Redburn, sir, came to our back-door
to borrow some taters which my wife refused. 	Words
ensued, and a day or two after the wife's eyesight began
to fail. There was another dispute over some cabbages,
and then my old woman became blind, 	deaf 	and
bedridden, 	all 	through 	offending 	Mrs. 	Redburn."
Certain it is that from the very night of settling in
their new home, Mrs. Smith improved in an astonishing
manner. 	She .was at once able to sit up, and shortly

THE PRESENT DAY 	243
began to walk about briskly enough, whilst her hearing
returned. 	The cataract, however, remained.
The Daily Chronicle, 15th February, 1879, records a
case of witchcraft at 	Caergwrle. 	Mrs. Braithwaite
supplied 	a 	Mrs. 	Williams with milk, but suddenly
refused to serve her. The reason was that Mrs.Braith-
waite had always been very successful with her butter
until she offended Mrs. Williams, when her butter
would not come try as she might. 	She declared Mrs.
Williams had overlooked the churn, and called after
her, " Out, witch ! 	witch ! 	If you don't leave the
place, I'll shoot you." 	Mrs. Williams applied to the
bench 	for 	protection 	as 	everyone 	in 	the 	district
believed her to be a witch. 	The magistrates directed
an officer to caution Mrs. Braithwaite against repeating
the threats.
Writing 	in 	The 	Times, 	20th 	September 	1930,
Mr. 	Andrew Innes, 	of High Tenter Fell, Kendal,
relates several recent exploits of a 	Caithness witch.
On one occasion when a farmer refused to sell her
a young cow, saying he needed the milk himself, the
witch charmed the animal so that she could yield no
more milk, but remained dry.
The Leigh 	Chronicle, 	19th April, 	1879, reports the
case of William Bulwer, of Etling 	Green, who was
charged at the East Dereham Petty Sessions 	with
assaulting 	Christiana 	Martins, 	a 	girl 	of 	eighteen.
Recriminations 	of 	the 	filthiest 	description 	passed
between the two and from words they came to blows.
The defendant stated : 	" Mrs. 	Martins is an 	old
witch, gentlemen, that is what she is and she charmed
me, and I got no sleep for her for three nights, and one
night at half-past eleven o'clock, 	I got up because I

244 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
could not sleep, and went out and found a ' walking
toad' under a clod which had been dug up with a
three-pronged fork. 	That is why I could not rest ;
she is a bad old woman ; she put this toad under there
to charm me, and her daughter is just as bad, gentle-
men. 	She would bewitch anyone ; she charmed me,
and I got no rest day or night for her, till I found this
' walking toad ' under the turf. 	She dug a hole and
put it there to charm me, gentlemen, that is the truth.
I got the toad out and put it in a cloth, and took it
upstairs and showed it to my mother, and ' throwed '
it into the pit in the garden. 	She went round this
here ' walking toad ' after she had buried it, and 	I
could not rest by day or sleep by night till I found it."
Mrs. Martins also bewitched by a curious look or
side-glance, 	a 	form of spell noticed in the 	Malleus
Male~$carum. I 	have no doubt that Bulwer's 	story,
clumsily told, was entirely accurate, and that the toad
was one of the woman's imps.
In 1886 there happened to be found hidden away
in the belfry of an English country church a long cord
tied in elaborate strands and 	interwoven with 	the
feathers of a black hen. 	Obviously it had been made
for some definite purpose and presently an old woman
in the village identified it as a " witch's ladder ", proof
positive 	that 	some 	persons 	in 	the 	neighbourhood
knew something of the traditional occult lore and were
endeavouring to cast a spell.
In 	191I 	a poor 	woman was tried in Ireland for
killing an old witch, who by means of a familiar, a rat,
had 	tormented 	her 	to 	madness. 	The 	Irish 	Times,
14th June, 	1911.
At the Glamorgan Assizes on the 27th July, 	1920,

THE PRESENT DAY 	245
before Mr. Justice Avory, William Davies, a hawker,
and 	his wife Mary Jane 	Davies, were sentenced to
terms of imprisonment with hard labour for obtaining
sums of money 	and 	articles of value from various
persons 	" by 	pretending 	to 	exercise 	witchcraft ".
David James, 	an old farmer living at Twynygarreg
Farm, 	near 	Treharris, 	said that he and his family
had been suffering from a skin disease. 	Mary Jane
Davies told him that they were bewitched and the cattle
also were overlooked. 	She undertook to cure the
household, but first demanded a number of articles
she scented as 	having been 	" cursed ". 	They also
paid her considerable sums in cash. 	A neighbouring
farmer, James 	Williams, who likewise had illness in
his family was warned by the female Davies that his
house was under malign influences. He gave her money
to avert the working of the charm. 	The two families
fully believed that some witch had cast an evil spell
upon them, and it was contended for the defence that
the accused had been called in to remove the ban and
that no false pretences were used. 	It is, of course,
quite possible that the Davies, witches, had in the first
instance brought 	disaster upon 	the two households
and 	then cunningly contrived that 	they should be
summoned actually 	to undo their own mischief.
In July, 	1929, Eugene Burgess, a taxicab driver,
was arrested at Kalamazoo, Michigan, for the murder
of Mrs. Etta Fairchild, aged seventy-five. This woman,
who was undoubtedly a witch, bragged of the numbers
of people (including her own husband) whom she had
killed by her foul enchantments. 	Burgess invited the
woman who was the inmate of a charity home to his
house and 	then brained 	her 	with 	a 	piece of lead

246 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
piping and a hammer. 	Mrs. Burgess, who had been
overlooked by the witch, said : 	" I 	stagger lots of
times 	and 	have 	pains 	and 	aches 	and 	trouble 	in
breathing. 	It was either her life or ours." 	Mrs. Fair-
child had 	also 	bewitched 	the 	seventeen 	year 	old
daughter of Burgess, and intended to waste her to
death.
Thus in the 	Daily 	Expressy nnnd January, 	1934~
there is an account of a man in a remote Dorset
hamlet who has been bewitched and is dying slowly
although physically there is nothing the matter with
him. 	" Doctors have examined him from head to toe.
They pronounced him perfectly healthy in wind and
limb. 	Yet they are powerless to save him." 	The local
physician said : 	" The man is doomed. 	We can do
nothing for him, 	as he is determined to die." 	The
victim is described as a tall, gaunt man of middle age.
His cheeks were sunken and pasty ; he was so weak
he could scarcely stand. 	For about two and a half
years he had been ailing. 	A gipsy came to the door,
and when he asked her if she could suggest a remedy,
she told him that someone, a woman, had " looked
over " him. 	Yet since the repeal of the law of James I
the witch must go scathless and scot-free.
In July, 	1935, a man who lived near Taunton com-
mitted suicide because he had been 	" overlooked "
by a witch.
Witches are as numerous, as malign and mischievous
in England to-day, as ever they were in the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries, and legislation is as much
needed now as then.
In one part of the Empire, at least, in Jamaica 	the
laws against witchcraft (obeah) are happily in full force.

THE PRESENT DAY 	*47
By the Encyclopedia Americana 	( I 829-1833 ; vol. iv,
1832)~the word Obeah is thus defined : 	" a species
of witchcraft practised among the Negroes, the appre-
hension of which, 	operating upon the superstitious
fears, is frequently attended with disease and death."
We remark then that 	the result of Jamaican 	and
English 	witchcraft 	is 	the 	same. 	Fr. 	Joseph 	J.
Williams, S.J., the eminent authority upon voodoo
and obeah, observes that " real obeah must be regarded
as 	a form of Devil-worship" 	since the agent (the
witch) is the servant of the Sasabonsan or the Devil
invoked and relied upon to produce the desired effect.
Obeah " is professedly a projection of spiritual power
with 	the 	harm 	of an 	individual 	as 	an 	objective.
Practically, its end is attained through fear, supple-
mented if needs be by secret poisoning ". 	This might
well stand for a definition of European witchcraft, for
the two things are one and the same.
The obeah-man fears the priest 	as one who can
exercise a more powerful influence. 	In 	their own
fashion the 	coloured 	folk 	think 	that 	the 	Catholic
Church controls the strongest obeah. 	The devotees
of the obeah cult, says Fr. 	Williams, believe that a
priest can give evidence of his dominance by " lighting
a candle on them ". 	" Fadder take pin and Fadder
take candle,, and him stick der pin in der candle ;
and him light der candle on you. Der candle him burn
and him burn and him burn. 	And you waste and you
waste and you waste. 	And when der flame touch dat
pin-you 	die." 	The threat made in jest by a priest
" I 	think 	I'll 	have to light a candle on you " will
bring the stoutest black to his knees.
Fr. Williams quotes a number of reports from The

248 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
Daib 	Gleaner 	of Kingston 	to 	show that 	witchcraft
(obeah) is 	widely 	prevalent 	and 	most 	obstinately
practised 	throughout 	the 	island. 	Moreover 	the
majority of cases that come before the Court are mixed
up with 	a deal of imposture, low money-grubbing,
and gain. 	In his real professional practice the obeah-
man is as secret and close as the witch of three centuries
ago. 	A little gamble with luck he will chance. 	He
will help in love affairs or effect a cure or clear a
haunted house, and if he is caught at any of these
games he pays the penalty, and then returns to his
trade exercising a trifle more caution, asking his clients
for a rather higher fee. 	But when it is a question of
real obeah he will take good care to assure himself
of inviolable secrecy, for he will never run the risk of
having a capital offence proved against him.
Thus on 24th November, 	1933, Vitelleus 	Brown
was charged with practising obeah. 	He said he could
cure a swollen knee, which he attributed to obeah in
the first instance. 	Someone '' had set hand " on the
sufferer, who was to be healed for three pounds. 	On
the following day Alexander Brown was charged with
the same offence. 	A man and woman consulted him,
declaring they were very sick. 	He informed the woman
that a policeman had put a ghost upon her, and asked
a fee of three pounds to " take off the duppy ". 	On
14th December of the same year at Spanish Town there
was " Six Months for Obeahman ". David Simon was
convicted of contracting to remove the duppies from
Ada Bogle's 	house, which she swore was beset with
spirits who scratched and rapped and pelted the place
with stones. Simon's job was to drive away the unruly
ghosts.

THE PRESENT DAY 	249
On the 9th January, 	1934, George Washington Pitt
was fined &12 10s. for practising obeah. 	He had been
heard to boast that : " He could cure ; he could kill ;
he could get his clients good positions." 	This vaunt
betrays a knowledge of the darkest secrets of obeah,
the art of dealing out death and decay.
In Chambers's Journal, 	I I th January, 	1902, an article
entitled " Obeah To-day in The West Indies " points
out that 	" In many countries superstitious rites are
practised to bring good luck ; but that is not the case
as a rule with obeah. 	Its root idea is the worship and
propitiation of the Evil One : it is essentially male-
volent. 	A Negro usually goes to the obeah-man to
harm his neighbour, not to do any good to himself;
and 	that 	is 	why 	the 	law 	regards 	the 	matter 	so
seriously ". 	The Jamaican 	legislation of 1760 pro-
vides against " the Wicked Art of Negroes going under
the Apellation of obeah-men and obeah-women pre-
tending to have Communication with the Devil and
other Evil 	Spirits " and enacts that 	" any Negro or
other Slave who shall pretend to any Supernatural
Power and be detected in making use of any 	. . .
materials related to the practice of Obeah or Witch-
craft in order to delude or impose upon the Minds
of others shall upon 	Conviction thereof before two
Magistrates and 	three Freeholders suffer Death or
Transportation ". The Timesof London, 5th December,
1818, quotes " a recent Act of the house of Assembly
(Barbados) " which punishes negroes or slaves wilfully,
maliciously and unlawfully pretending to any magical
or supernatural charm or power, or who use and carry
on the wicked and unlawful practice of obeah, with
death, transportation, 	or such other penalty as 	the

250 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
Court may decide. 	Obeah, European witchcraft in
the past, Satanism in England to-day, are all one and
the same thing, essential evil, malignant, destructive,
accursed by God, hateful to man, the cult of the Devil.
The Daily 	Express, 	20th January, 	1937, says 	that
" Voodooism, 	with 	its 	strange, 	awful rites, 	is 	still
flourishing in Michigan ", and reports how a negro
woman and her child sought the protection of the
police, 	since her 	husband, Verlen 	McQueen, 	was
going to sacrifice them to Satan in a huge jar of boiling
water. 	The man, when arrested, was found stirring
a great cauldron of water set over a fierce fire. 	In
1932, a voodoo magician, Robert Harris, beheaded
another negro upon an altar. 	Harris was confined
in an asylum. 	Negro children are actually being sent
to secret voodoo schools.
The Church Times, 2 I st December, I 928, quoting the
latest number of the diocesan magazine of the Bishop
of Mauritius, says : " I wonder how many people in
Mauritius realize what a strong hold sorcery in some
form or another has on quite a large number of persons
in Mauritius, by no means all of whom are of the
uneducated classes, and all of whom profess some form
of Christianity. 	Although prosecutions for witchcraft
qua witchcraft have ceased, indirectly it is still dealt with
under 	other 	names 	by 	the 	penal 	codes of 	every
civilized country. 	In Mauritius those involved are
prosecuted 	for swindling. 	I 	am assured by 	those
qualified 	to give accurate information 	that witch-
craft or Petit Albert is practised by many thousands
of 	persons 	in 	Mauritius. 	No 	one professing 	the
Christian Faith can, without mortal sin, have anything
to do with any form of witchcraft. 	Petit Albert is

THE PRESENT DAY 	251
nothing less than the cult of the Devil." 	Here the
Bishop gives three examples of invocations.
" The petitions are for personal gain or injury to
enemies, and are often of an erotic or obscene character.
Sacred names and phrases are used in a blasphemous
way. 	These intercessions are accompanied by various
ceremonies, in which a skull, a dagger, camphor, and
flowers figure. 	Engravings of saints have pins stuck
in various parts of the figure ; I have seen a picture
of the Sacred Heart covered with such pins. 	A crucifix
is also frequently used in these blasphemous rites. 	It
has been known in 	Mauritius for a newly-interred
female corpse to be dug up and used for horrible
purposes. 	To take part in such practices, and at the
same time to pose as a Christian, is, in my opinion,
perilously near committing unforgivable sin."
Not without reason has Rumania definitely banned
magic in every form. 	The Daily Mail, Wednesday,
1st April, 1936.
In TIMTimes of Thursday, 2 1st January, 	I 932, was
published an extraordinary-and 	to my mind a dis-
turbing-article 	entitled " A Satanist Picture ". 	There
was at Burlington House an Exhibition of French Art,
including a picture of " The Annunciation" 	loaned
from Aix-en-Provence. 	The writer stated that this
was locally acknowledged to be the work of a Satanist
painter. 	It hangs in a " dark chapel " in the Church of
the Madeleine. 	" It has always been there. 	Who
painted i t ? " 	A Satanist who concealed his name
through fear of the Inquisition ? 	" Did the picture
enter the church under the auspices of that Robert
Mauvoisin, Archbishop of Aix, who, accused of sorcery
and convicted of having celebrated Black Masses with

252 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
the blood of little children was condemned at Avignon
by Pope John XXII ? 	Or was it offered to the parish
by 	Rodrigue 	de 	Lune, 	nephew 	of 	the 	Antipope
Benedict XIII, who vowed himself to the devil ? "
" This is quite conceivable ! "
Better still ; 	" Is it not possible that it was sur-
reptitiously hung in its niche by the Abb6 Gaufridi,
who, during the minority of Louis XIII, was burnt
alive in the Place des Prtcheurs for having convoked
a whole convent of Ursulines to WitchesySabbaths ? "
All this is very alarming. 	The picture is examined
in detail. 	" Here the announcing angel has owl's
wings ; 	the ray of light emanating from God the
Father, 	before reaching 	Mary, 	falls on 	a 	monkey
crouching on the edge of a lectern. 	In the groining,
instead of doves and larks, flutter bats and vampires.
From the trefoils of the arches horned devils peep.
In the vase beside the lily stand three evil herbs, basil,
foxglove, and belladonna, and, indubitable sign of
Satanic consecration, both God the Father and the
angel, 	instead 	of 	raising 	fingers 	in 	the 	orthodox
attitude of benediction, advance the thumb between
the third and middle fingers according to the obscene
and malefic gesture which Spanish wizards termed
h a m jga, 	and with which, according to 	mediieval
demonologists, the devil often opened Sabbaths.
" In the shutters of the triptych two pious figures
are standing beneath shelves laden with books. 	These
will keep their secret, and we shall never know their
titles. 	Let us wager, however, that they spell Cabal,
and that the priest and deacon keeping vigil in this
singular sanctuary were reading, not the Breviary,
but 	the 	' Malleus 	Maleficarum ', 	the 	' Daemono-

THE PRESENT DAY 	253
mania ', or 	the 	' Livre des Charmes, 	Sorcelages et
Enchantements ' " [sic].
This is a regular thrill. 	Unfortunately some details
in 	the 	very 	picturesque 	description 	are 	a 	trifle
inaccurate. 	The announcing Angel, St. Gabriel, has
not owl's wings. 	The rays of light do not more than
pass over the lectern of which the finial is a monkey.
The bats and vampires instead of fluttering in the
graining, flutter only in the writer's imagination. 	A
fluttering vampire is a novelty, to be sure. 	There
are no 	evil herbs beside the lily, no foxglove, no
belladonna. 	What may 	be clearly seen has been
identified as the blue columbine, which obtains its
name from a pretty fancy as resembling a nest of
doves, and a red flower which is either the rose or the
poppy. 	The thumb of the Father is not " advanced
between His third and middle fingers ", in fact it is
scarcely visible, nor indeed is that of the Angel who
is not blessing at all. One would be glad to know which
mediaeval demonologists state that the Devil opened
the Sabbath with the gesture, hacer jga. 	Reference,
please. 	The " two pious figures " will not and do not
desire to keep their secret. 	The name of one, Jeremias
propheta, is quite legibly inscribed beneath him. 	The
name Isaias propheta is by chance out of sight. 	We are
told of two possible donors of the fourteenth century.
In this case it is hardly likely that the " pious figures "
would 	be 	reading works written respectively at the
end of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. 	Nor is it
probable that the picture " entered the church under
the auspices " 	of' an Archbishop condemned by 	a
Pope who 	was 	dead 	more 	than 	a 	hundred 	years
before it was painted. True, an alternative is suggested.

254 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
But is there the slightest reason for supposing that the
sorcerer Louis Gaufridi, executed in 	I 61 I, 	has any
connexion whatsoever with the picture ?
I may remark that it is impious-although 	doubtless
no offence was intended-to 	speak of a 	Saint, 	St.
Sara, as the " patroness of fairies, witches ".
The whole article " A Satanist Picture " is-to 	use
the 	mildest terms-founded 	upon 	a 	complete mis-
apprehension, but such a mistake may leave a very
ugly impression. 	There are " Satanist Pictures ", but
not such as this, and my late friend, the Provost of
Eton, Dr. M. 	R. James, 	both in a private letter to
myself 	and 	in 	a 	letter 	published 	in 	Th 	Times,
25th January, 	1 932, expressed himself as aggrieved
that the Mystery of the Annunciation 	should have
been made the subject of such an imputation.
Satanism is alive to-day. 	It is a power in the land.
Mysterious, unseen, wholly evil.
I myself have been shown two ancient candlesticks
of great value upon which in a secret place was in-
scribed in Hebrew characters the Most Holy Name
of God,-but 	inverted. 	They had been used at the
hideous celebration of a diabolic Eucharist.
In 1899 Mons. Serge Basset, a well-known French
journalist, who unhappily fell in the Great War, was
present at a Black Mass, and his account of the cere-
mony appeared in Le Matin of 27th May of that year
The circumstances were peculiar. 	Mons. Basset had
contributed an article to ~ ' ~ c l a i r	expressing himself
entirely sceptical concerning the practice of Satanic
Masses to-day, whereupon he received a letter request-
ing him in very plain terms to meet the writer at
g o'clock on the following Thursday in the Place Saint-

THE PRESENT DAY 	255
Sulpice, whence he would be conducted to a Black
Mass and see for himself. 	Suspecting a practical joke
he did not reply, and even ignored a second and more
pressing communication. 	A few evenings later there
called at his flat a lady, heavily veiled, who told him
that it was she who had been his correspondent, and
who invited him, if really in earnest, to accompany
her-unless 	indeed he were afraid. 	" You do not
believe in us," 	she said. 	" Very well, I will convince
you." 	A 	car was waiting, and full of curiosity he
agreed to go. 	Such precautions were taken that he
was unable to gather their route, nor could he guess
the name of the lonely street where they stopped, as
he was immediately hurried into a large house, which
seemed in complete darkness. 	Here he was ushered
into a lofty room of some size, fitted up as a chapel.
About 	twenty 	or 	a 	couple of dozen persons were
present, of whom seven or eight were women. Amongst
the men several appeared quite young, almost boys.
At the far end of the room, dimly lighted by one faint
lamp, he could half-discern an altar, and when six
black candles were presently lit he saw that they were
equally ranged on either side of a monstrous figure,
a hideous goat, squatting on its haunches, bearded
and lewd, with great red staring eyes. 	It butted with
its huge protudent horns the tips of which glowed with
a dull crimson flame. 	The walls of the room were
painted 	with 	esoteric designs, 	curious 	triangles 	of
gold within silver circles, pentacles, many-rayed stars,
Hebrew and Greek characters, all intermingled with
vividly designed scenes of the most shameless obscenity.
A 	sombre chant was heard in low, mournful tones
Gloria in profundis 	Satano ! In profundis Satano Gloria !

256 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
More candles were lit, and there approached the altar
a tall man vested in a richly laced alb and a cope of
flaming 	scarlet 	embroidered 	with 	gilt 	cones 	and
pomegranates. 	The server was a woman, a horrible
hag, raddled and scarred with villainy. 	From unseen
braziers the fume of heady incense mixed with pungent
herbs began to load the heated air. 	The voices of
celebrant and server alternated in low muttered tones :
Introibo 	ad altare dei nostri Satanis. 	Ad 	Deum 	qui nunc
oppressus resurget et triumphutit. 	Suddenly a girl, hardly
beyond her teens, darted forward, and stripping off
her clothes knelt stark naked before the altar. 	Quid
velk ? (What would you ?) asked the celebrant. 	Ad
sacrijiciurn corpus m u m offero ( I present my body as the
place of sacrifice), she cried. 	He bowed his head
silently, and at his gesture she mounted on the altar
where she lay at full length covered with a blackveil.
In hideous parody of the Offertory a jewelled ciborium
was presented whence the celebrant drew a large black
host and elevated it with the ritual prayer. 	Ac~ipe
etiam 	sanguinem 	nostrum 	(Receive 	also 	our 	blood),
clamoured the frenzied worshippers. 	The ceremony
continued. 	From time to time the woman stretched
on the altar uttered hysterical screams 	and 	moans.
Suddenly the celebrant turned and scattered a number
of black hosts to the devotees who rushed towards him
with m n a d fury. By this time all, or nearly all, were
in a state of nudity. 	It seemed as if worse horrors were
to follow, and Mons. Basset clapped his hands before
his eyes with a cry of disgust. 	At that moment two
men who had been standing in the shadow intently
watching his every movement sprang forward and
caught him by either arm. 	" Get out of here," 	they

THE PRESENT DAY 	257
shouted, hustling him towards the door. 	" Get out.
You've seen too much already."
He was hurried down a long dark passage, up some
stairs across a garden, and through a door which was
slammed and bolted behind him. 	He found himself
in a narrow back street, whence it was with difficulty
that he made his way to a district he recognized and
knew. 	At the time his story was questioned in some
quarters, but although he steadily refused to give further
particulars-he 	was undoubtedly bound by an oath of
secrecy-Mons. 	Basset pledged his word that the details
he related were in every respect exactly true. Nor would
it be at all hard closely to parallel this scene in London
and in many another English city to-day.
The following experience which,-with 	the suppres-
sion of actual names, an obvious precaution-I 	am
allowed to relate, happened less than ten years ago
to the sister of a personal friend of mine. 	This lady
who is a Catholic and a medical doctor was persuaded
by two acquaintances to accompany them to a " for-
tune-teller " in Merthyr Tydfd. 	They made their way
to a little house in a poor street and were admitted
by a woman who seemed obviously demented, so wild-
eyed was she and so eccentric in her gestures and
behaviour. 	An old grey-headed man appeared from
within, ready to interview them. 	He promptly denied
that he was a "fortune-teller ". " I am not a Christian,"
he said, " nor a Jew. 	I belong to the oldest religion
in the world." 	He then fastened his attention upon
my friend's sister and accused her of being his enemy.
" You are carrying a rosary with you," he cried, and
such was in fact the case. 	He next invited all three
of his visitors downstairs to a basement. 	My friend's

258 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
sister at first refused to go, but when she found herself
left alone with the woman who had admitted them
and who began to laugh and mutter in a menacing
fashion she preferred to descend, and joined the rest
who were in a chapel, the altar of which blazed with
candles. 	Above in the centre was suspended a pair
of horns, and queer objects were ranged on the altar-
table. This lady had no knowledge and little suspicion
of the truth. 	The old man spoke to her for a few
minutes and asked her to lay her hand on the altar
and say : 	" In the Name of the Father." 	This she
refused to do, and she forthwith insisted upon her
companions leaving the place with her. 	The warlock
had already told her several things concerning herself
and her family. 	He cried : 	" I cannot prevent you
going for you are protected by the constant prayers
of an old man whom I see reclining in a chair and
telling his beads." 	This, no doubt, referred to the
lady's father, an invalid who spent his day in a chair,
and was extremely devout, passing the hours in prayer
and intercession.
Up and down England there is hardly a village
without a witch. 	In our great cities, our larger towns,
our seats of learning, Satanists abound and are organized
(as of old) into covens of wickedness. 	Black Masses
are celebrated in Mayfair and Chelsea ; in Wapping
and Shoreditch ; in Brighton ; in Birmingham ; in
Liverpool ; 	in 	Edinburgh. 	Under 	conditions 	of
peculiar horror a Black Mass was celebrated in the
ruins of Godstow Nunnery near Oxford. 	A band of
Satanists have their rendezvous not far from the city
of Cambridge.
During the Helsingfors scandals of I 93 I , a veritable

THE PRESENT DAY 	*59
outburst of Satanism and necromancy, it was com-
monly bruited 	(and stated in the 	newspapers) that
the Finnish police had called in the help of Scotland
Yard since London was believed to be the headquarters
of the infernal society, the Black International.
Who shall say that the statute of James I was severe ?
Rather did it not incline to clemency.
The Divine Law has spoken : 	" Thou shalt not
suffer a Witch to live."
" Certain London cults practise the Black 	Mass,
where black bread, 	black wine, 	and black candles
are used, worshippers confess every good deed 	as a
sin, and do penance."-The 	DaiZy Mail, 	14th April,
1934-
Lady Peirse has well written : " They may call it
psychism or occultism ; they may learn to cast curses
or spells ; they may invoke the help of the powers of
evil, but it is practically the same thing, and its lure
to mankind is as old and mysterious as the wind that
blows over the earth, urging them with strange elusive
thrills to recapture and use the old powers of the
Serpent."
" I am perfectly certain that there are witches to-day
-both 	men and women who do a great deal of harm
by their foul practices and bring ill-luck to people.
I do not consider this is superstition at all but just
common sense." 	I 	spoke those words at a public
meeting in February, 1933. 	The next day the news-
papers blazoned their headlines : " Modern Faith in
Witches. 	Clergyman thinks they 	Exist." 	" Priest
believes in Witches. 	Common Sense ! "
Now 	and 	again 	some gang 	of devil-worshippers
may be-almost 	by accident-broken 	up and dispersed,

260 	ENGLISH WITCHCRAFT
but there are 	(I fear) few persons who realize how
far-spread 	and 	how 	cunningly organized are these
Societies of Evil. 	To the ordinary man Satanism often
seems incredible, or at any rate a myth of the remote
Dark Ages. 	He does not realize, and he is happy in
his ignorance, the devil's fires that burn just a very
little way beneath the thin and crumbled crust of our
boasted modern civilization.

INDEX
Abadie, Jeanne d', 20
Accra, the Bishop of, 206
Adare, 	Lord 	(Edwin 	Richard
Windham 	Wyndharn-Quin,
3rd Earl of Dunraven), 137
Elfred, King, 205
aerial flights, illusory, 142-3
Ethelbert, King, 204, 205
Ethelstan, King, 206
African witchcraft, 59-60, 	I I 7,
206, 206, 230-1
Agar, Margaret, I 14, 124
Agen, the Satanists of, 39, 176-8
Agrippa, Life of Henry Cornelius,
94-
Agrippa von Nettesheim, Hein-
rich Cornelius, 28-3 I, 94-5
Aix, 153, 251
Albert the Great, St., 76, 77, 78
Albins, 79
All Hallows E'en, 124
All the Year Round (cited), 241-2
Allen, Thomas, 222
Alphonsus Liguori, St., 137, 138
b e y , Fanny, 238
b y , John L., 58
Ancyra, Synod of, 142, 143
angelus dissolves enchantments,
202
animal disguises, I I 6
animal metamorphosis, 140
Antichrist, 201
Antony the Great, St., 136
Aqua Toffania, 63
Aram, Eugene, 121
Arcan (a demon), 91, 92
Archer, Serjeant John, 19
Aristophanes, 199
Armstrong, Ann, 108-9, 131
Arnobius, 199
Arras, 149
Art of Moses, The (Magia diotina-
mosaics), 80
artificial phallus, I 98--200
Ashanti Prwerbs, 2
Astral spirit (familiar), 25
Aubrey, Sir John d', 185
Audebert , Stevenote de, 10
Augustine of Canterbury, St., 204
Augustine of Hippo, St., 10, 17,
143, 192, I99
Auldearne, 	99, 	108, 155, 158,
197
Australian witchcraft, I 35
Bain, John, 69
Balfour, John, 69
baptism of witches, mock, 19-20
Barbagli, Maria Damenica, I 36
Barbicapra (della Rovere), 20
Barnes, Mother, 220
barren (or frigid) spell, the, 59
Barrett, Francis, 88, 95-6
Barrington, Daines, 234
Barry, Gerald de, 40, I 82
Barthe, Ang&lede la, 200
Barton, Sarah, 43
Basque Sabbats, 124
Basset, Serge, 2 5 4 7
Baud, Madame de, 61
Bavent, Madeleine, 	I I 5, 	122,
156, 161, 183, 189
bav~an,the, 199
Bayona, Beatrix, 22
Bede, the Venerable, St., 205
Bedfordshire, witchcraft in, 55,
71, 226, 236, 238
Begg, Bums, 114
Bell, Rev. John, 67-8
Bellarmine, St. Robert, 201
Belloc, Madame, 176-8
Bellot, Mlle, 99, 196
Bendo, 	Alexander, 	(assumed
name), 222
Benedict, St., 202 ; the Medal
of, 18
261

262 	INDEX
Benedict XI11 (Pedro de Luna,
antipope), 252
Benedict XIV, Pope, 191
Benevento, 130
Bennett, Elizabeth, 220
Berkshire, witchcraft in, 37, 42,
I I0
Bernard of Como, 133
Bernard, Rev. Richard, 43, 72
Bertha, of Paris, Queen, 204
Bexhill (Beck's Hill), witchcraft
at, 72
Bible, 	weighing 	witch 	against
the Church, 72
Bill Sikes, 121
Billuart, 0. P., 	Charles 	RCnC,
191
Binsfeld, Bishop Peter, 24, 143,
202
Birtha, 	Hon. 	James 	Talbot,
Bishop of, 181
Birtles, Old, I 11
Bishop, Anne, 23, 125, 148, 154
Bishop, Bridget, 74
Black 	Mass, 	the, 	asperges 	at,
I 89 ; candles at, 170 ; cele-
brated at Agen, 177 ; at Aix,
251-2 ; 	at 	Godstow, Oxon,
258 ; at Hornsey Park, 213-
214 ; 	at London, 179, 259 ;
at Paris, 	178, 179 ; at Tif-
fauges, 163 ; among the Anglo
Saxons, 205, 206 ; by AbbC
Guibourg and his coven, 171,
173-5 ; by the Buxen, I 87 ;
by the Pyrenean witches, 166 ;
in a cellar, 175 ; in Palazzo
Borghese, Rome, 	18-1 	; in
various towns to-day (Birming-
ham, Brighton, Bruges, Brus-
sels, 	Edinburgh, 	Florence,
Liverpool, 	Lyons, 	Naples,
Salerno, 	etc.), 	178-9, 	258 ;
chalice 	used 	at, 	167, 	168 ;
children killed at, 169 ; de-
scribed by Basset, 254-7 ; by
De Sade, 176-7 ; 	by J.-K.
Huysmans, 	179 ; 	essential
feature of Sabbat, 160 ; hosts
used 	at, 	161-2, 	167, 	169 ;
incense used at, 168 ; missal
used 	at, 98, 	189 ; 	of 	Saint
SCcaire, 188 ; ritual of, 97 ;
sermon 	at, 	167 ; 	vestmeqts
used at, 171-2
Blackmail by satanists, 100, 150
Blessis, Denis Poculot, 173
Blockula, 141, 158
Blood, 	drawn 	from 	witch 	as
counter-charm, 	72-4 ; 	used
to sign demoniacal contract,
10 ; to write spells, etc., 75
Blymyer, John H., 21-2, 	80
Bodenham, Anne, 75
Bodin, Jean, I, 2,17,59,146,157
Bogota, 231
Boguet, Henri, 18, 19, 122, 123,
197
BOIS,Jules, 13, 23
Boleyn, Anne, 215
Bolingbroke, Roger, 2 I 2-2 I 4
Bonaventura, St., I 36
Boniface VIII, Pope, 209
Bonnac, Mgr. de, 176
book 	of 	black 	magic, 	a MS.
(c. 16oo), 91
Book of Cyprianus, The, 77
Book of Magical Art, The, 80
Booker, John, a22
Bordeaux, 179, 198
Borghese, Palazzo, 180
Bosdeau, Jeanne, 146, I 97-8
Bosse, La, 171
Boullan, Joseph-Antoine, I 79
BoullC, Thomas, 161
Bourignon, Antoinette, 99, 195
Bradshaw, Sarah, 237
Breadheid, Janet, 99, 197
Breton witchcraft, 124
BrCvannes, Roland, 59
brewery bewitched, 53-4
Brewham, 124, 125, 131, 228
Brigallier, AbbC, 173
Brighton, 179, 258
Brinvilliers, 	Marie-Marguerite,
Marquise de, 63

INDEX 	263
British Goblins, 26
Brocken, the (Blocksburg), 125
Brown, Alexander, 248
Brown, Alice, 238
Brown, Vitelleus, 248
Browne, Sir Thomas, 229
Bruges, 179
Buckinnham, Edward 	Stafford.
~ u k e	of, 215
Buckingham, 	George 	Villiers,
First Duke of, 62, 221
Bubb-Dodington, George, (Lord
Melcombe), I 85
Bulmer, Desirke, 202
Bulmer, Johann, 202
Bulwer, William, 243-4
bunn (familiar), 25
Burchard, of Wonns, 142
Burgess, Eugene, 245-6
burning at stake, 217
Burroughs, 	Rev. 	George, 	99,
111, 183
Burton-on-the-Wolds, I 28
Burtree House, Stocksfield-on-
Tyne, 108, 131
Bury St. Edrnunds, 229
Bush of Barton, Mother, 197
Butcher, Elizabeth, I 33
butter bewitched, 53
Butters, Mary, 230
Buxen, the, 187-8
Bwiti, 134
Caergwrle, witchcraft at, 243
Caesarius of Arles, S t., I I 6
Caithness, witchcraft in, 54, 243
Caister Castle, near Yarmouth,
~all&tt,-iady, 73
Cambridgeshire, witchcraft 	in,
37-8, 	50, 128, 226, 237
Canary Isles, familiars appear in,
32
cannibalism of witches, I 5 6 7
Canon Episcopi, 103-4, 142-3
Carbonell, Mrs., 66
Cardiganshire, witchcraft in, 52
Cardrona, 75
Carmelite scapular, 17-18
Carnrnoney witch, the, 230
Carrier, Martha, 183
Carvajal, 	Cardinal 	Bernadino
(Lopez de), 33
Cassiel, 87, 88
Castello, Ignacio, 230
Catherine of Siena, St., 136
cattle bewitched, 53-4, 	65
Caverne des Trois Frhres,
Ari&ge, I 16
Celles, Cecilia, 220
Cervantes Saavedra, Miguel de,
32
chair, a magic, 21 3
Chfilons, 179
Chambers's Journal, 	(cited), 249
Chantelouve, Madame, 179, 194
Charles Albert of Bavaria, 83
Charles I of England, 133
Charles IX of France, 17, 164
Charmillon, Marianne, 175
Chattox, Mother (Anne Whittle),
109, 222-4
Chelmsford, 39
China, witchcraft in, 139
Christian Council of the Gold
Coast, the, 206
Chrysal, 187, 190
Church Times, The, (cited), 51
Churchill, Charles, 185
Clavicula Salmonis, 81 ff.
Clement of Alexandria, 199
Clerc, Gentien le, 161, 189
Clonmel case, the, 230
Clovesho, 	Second 	Council 	of,
305
Cnut, King, 121, 206, 219
coaches, phantom, I 32-3
cock crowlng ends Sabbat, dis-
solves enchantments, 201-2
Coirihres, I 24
Coke, Sir Edward, 3, 62
Colas, Antide, 122
Colchester, 66-7
Colley, Thomas, 237

z64 	INDEX
Collin, 0. P., Conrad, 94-5
Collin de Plancy, (Jacques Albin
Simon), 88
Coman, Widow, 45
Commonwealth, see Great Rebel-
lion
Complete Review of 	the Confes-
sions of 	Warlocks and Witches
(Binsfeld), 24
Confirmation and 	Discovery 	of
Witchcraft, The, (Stearne), 226
Congo witchcraft, I 34
Congresso Notturno delle Lammie,
Del, 103-4
Conjuration of 	Uriel, The, 87
conversion 	of 	England, 	the,
204-5
Cony, Joan, 23
Cooper, John, I 3I
Cornhill Magazine, The, I 09
Cornwall, witchcraft in, 59
corpse candlestick, the, 60-1
corpses, disinterred by 	witches
for charms, 60, 157, 251
Cotton, abbC, 173
Count Fosco, 121
Country Justice, 	The, 43
Courrihe, Madame Berthe, 179
covens of witches, 107 ff.
Coventry, witchcraft at, 209-21 I
Cox, Julian, 19, 141, 228
Cromwell, Oliver, 226-8
Crookes, Sir William, 137
Croschet, Raoul, I I o
Crozier, Simon, 210
Cullender, Rose, 45, 229
Curt! 	d'Ars, 	the, 	(St. 	Jean-
Baptiste Vianney), I 36
Curry, John, 21
Cyprian of Antioch, St., 77
Dadson, goodwife, I 28
Daemonologie (James I), 37
Daily Chronicle, The (cited), 243
Daily. Express, 	The (cited), 22,
52, 246, 250
Daily Gleaner, The,(cited), 79-
80, 248
Daily Mail, The, (cited), 16, 259
Dalton, Michael, 43
dances at the Sabbat, 150-2
Daneau, Lambert, 118, 149
Dann, 148
Darcy, Brian, 2 I 9-220
Darel, Godfrey, 182
Darnally, a sorcerer, 11I
Dashwood, Sir Francis, 184
D'Autun, Jacques, 12, 143, 151,
196
Davies, Mary Jane, 245
Davies, William, 245
Davot, abbd, 173
dead bodies used in witchcraft,
60, 157, 251
dead man's candle, the, 60-1
Death's 	Head, 	the sacrifice of
the, I74
Dee, Dr. John, 221
Deffoux, Leon, 179
Degans, abbC, 177
De Lancre, Pierre, 10, 124, 134,
144, 151, 154, 166, 197, 198
Delrio, S. J., Martin, 13, 59, 76,
125, 145, 156
Demdike, 	Mother 	(Elizabeth
Sowtherns, or Derndike), 37,
41, 99, 109,. 127, 222-4
Demon Possesston, 138
Dmoniality, (Sinistrari), 192
Demonolatry (Remy), 19, 104
Demonomania, (Bodin), I
Descrepe, Marius, 78
Deshayes, abbe, 174
Despenser, Hugh le, 210
Device, Alison, 223
Device, Elizabeth, 67, 223
Device, James, 41, 223
devil, the god of the 	witches,
3, 	8 ; 	homage 	paid 	to 	by
witches, 22-3, 	144-5, 146 ; in
Old 	and 	New 	Testaments,
5-6 ; man masquerading as,
117-118; 	pact 	with, 	8-13;
a positive personal power, 6 ;
present in person at Sabbats,
115, 145 ; r81e of 	taken by

INDEX 	265
a man, 	109 ff. ; 	theological
teaching concerning, 5
Devil Discovered, 	The 	(Cotton
Mather), 5
devil's book, 74-6
devil's mark, 67 ff.
Devonshire, witchcraft in, 	52,
53, 66, 73-4, 	!98, 	229
Devonshire Assonatzon, Transac-
tions of 	the, 42
Devonshire traditions, 73
Dialogue of Witches, A (Daneau),
118
Diana, 104, 142
Dianic cult, imaginary, 104
Dick, John, 69
Dick Turpin, 12 I
discipline, 	among 	the 	witch
covens, 149-1 50
Discourse of the Damned Art of
Witchcraft, A, 70-1
Displaying of 	Supposed Witch-
craft, The, 61, 114
" Divine Victim," the, 120
Docre, abbC, I79
Dogme de la Haute Magie, 97
Dominic, St., 136
Don Quixote, 179
Dornock, execution at, 229
Dorsetshire, witchcraft in, 	92,
246
Douglas, John, 152
Dragon rouge, Le, 96
Drigie, Alexke, 198
drummer of Tedworth, the, 228
Dufay, Pierre, 179
Duke, Alice, 23, 148
Dummy, 	nickname 	of 	wizard
swum 	at 	Sible Hedingham,
240-1
Durnont, Collette, 139, 145
Duncan, Geillis, I 13, 151
Dunmow, 	swimming 	case 	at,
241
Duny, Amy, 45, 229
duppies, 248
Duprat, Mons., 82
Durham, 133
Durtal, 194
" Dying God," 	the, 120
Earlseat, I 55
East Dereham, 243
Eclair, L', 254
Edeline, Guillaume, I 46
Edrnond, Monteul, 79
Edmonton, Mother Sawyer of,
44
Edrnund Ironside, 120
Edward the Elder, 206
Edward I, 146, 209
Edward 11, 209-211
Edward 111, 112, 2 1 1
Edward IV, 214
Edward VI, 216
Edwards, Susanna, 229
Ehrenberg, Ernest von, 18
Elder, Alexander, I 54
Elich, Philip Ludwig, 146, 158
Elijah, 136
Elizabeth, Queen of Edward IV,
214
Elizabeth, Queen 	of 	England,
67, 101, 181, 215, 216, 217,
221, 	234; 	astrologers 	con-
sulted at birth of, 215-316
Emmerich, Anne Catherine, I 36
Enchitidim of Leo 111, 80
Encyclopedia Americana, 247
En-dor, the witch of, 24
Enoch, 136
Erotic 	Glossary 	of 	the 	Latin
Tongue, An, I99
Essex, witchcraft in, 23, 39, 43,
51-2, 54, 55, 66-73 7% 93, 99,
I 09, 128, 196-7, 218-221,224,
226, 237, 240-1
Eugenius IV, Pope, 19
Eustace, Elizabeth, 220
Evening Standard, The, (cited),
50
Everard, S., 226, 227
Evocation of the Seven Planetary
Spirits, The, 87
Ewen, LYEstrange,109, 234
executions of witches, computed

266 	INDEX
number of in England, 234 ;
last in England, 229 ; France,
230 ; Germany, 230 ; Ireland,
230; 	Scotland, 230 ; Spain,
230 ; Switzerland, 230 ; Po-
land, 230 ; methods of, 217 ;
when 	most 	frequent 	in
England, 2 I 7-21 8
Eye-next-Westminster, the witch
of, 217
Fairchild, Etta, 245-6
Fairfax, Edward, 127, 218
familiars, 23 ff. ; 	names of, 35,
36, 37, 43 ; procured by pro-
fane rites, 40-3 ; animal, 36-
40
Faversham, 128
feasts, witches', 	154 ff.
Fellet, Claude, 198
Fian, Dr. John, 113, 117, 124,
151
figurines, 63-7
Filastre, La, 171
Fillet, Elizabeth, 5 5
Fischer, Colette, 196
Fletcher, John, 199
Florence, 178
Folly of the Wise, The (D'Autun),
151
Forbes, William, 24
Forfar witches, 158
Forman, Dr. Simon, 62,221,222
Fountainhall, 	Lord, 	(Sir 	John
Lauder), 183
France, Sabbats in, 154
Francis, Elizabeth, 99
Frazer, Sir James George, 119
French, Mrs., 138
Friar Tuck, 120, 121
Froissart, Jean, 25
Gabriel, Frhre, 174
galliciniurn, (Matins and Lauds),
202
Gallet, La, 170, 174
Gallienne, James, 149
Gamlen, W. H., 43
Gandillon, Antoine, 125
Gar~on,Maitre Maurice, I 1-12
Gardner, goodwife, I 28
Gaufridi, Louis, 68, 	122, 145,
156, 168, 201, 254
Gaule, Rev. John, 196
Geography 	of 	Witchcraft, 	The,
227
George I, I 84
George 	11, 	Laws 	punishing
witchcraft repealed under, 217,
232-3, 	236
George 111, 181
George Barnwell, 121
George's Eve, St., 123
Geschichte 	der 	Hexenprozesse
(Soldan-Heppe), 104
Glarnorgan, witchcraft in, 244-5
Glanvil, Rev. Joseph, 46, 228
Gloucester, 	Eleanor 	Cobham,
Duchess of, 212-214
Gnostic Mass, the, 97
Godstow Nunnery, black Mass
in ruins of, 258
Gold Coast, witchcraft in, 206-7
Good Easter, 51-2, 	72, 241
Gowdie, Isobel, 108, 149, 155,
I97
Goynet, Etienne, I 10
Gozzoli (a Vintrasien), 177
Grand 	Albert, 	Les 	admirubles
secrets du, 77, 78, 79, 80
Grand Grimoire, 81
grand masters of covens 109 ff.
Grand Mi%, Le, 79
Grandier, Urbain, I I
Grant, Marion, 22-3
Great Book of Black Magic, The,
80
Great Paxton. Hunts, witchcraft
at, 238
Great 	Rebellion, witchcraft 	in
England 	durGg 	the, 	226-8,
234
Great Secret, The, 83
Green, Christian, 125
Grey, Dr. Zachary, 234
Grilland, Paul, 138, 161, 162

INDEX 	267
grimoire, manuscript (c. 	I 600),
91-2
Grimoire of Pope Honorius, The,
80, 83
Grimoires, 76 ff.
Grindoff the Miller, 121
Grosse, Hennig, 157
Guaita, 	Marie-Victor 	Stanislas
de, 12, 78, 88, 97
Guazzo, 	Francesco-Maria, 	21,
139, 147, 154, 192
Guernsey, witchcraft in, 54-7,
68, 79, 124-5, 	139-140, 145,
149, I54
Guibourg, l'AbbC, 	63, 82, 157,
170-5, 183
Guide to Grand Jurymen, A, 43,
72
Guignard, abbC, 175
Guillaurne, M., 170
Guthrum, Laws of, 206
:abakkuk, I 36
:ale, Sir Matthew, 229
:ampshire, witchcraft in, 75
Yanchement, Captain, I 10
:and of glory, 60-1
Ianging (not burning), English
punishment of witchcraft, 217
:anmer, Sir Thomas, I I I
Iarries, Dr. John, 93-4
:axison, G . B., 224
.art2 Mountains, 125
:astings, Sir George, I 11
.athaway, Richard, 23 I
:aunted chateau, 132 ; church,
187
:auser, M. Lionel, 91
:carts used in sorcery, 64-6
.eliogabalus, 7
:ell Fire Clubs, 184 ff.
.elsingfors, witchcraft at, 258-9
Iennezel (a warlock), I97
'enri 111, 164-6
.enry I, laws of, 207
:enry IV, 21 I
:enry V, 211-12
.enry VI, 212, 214, 217
Henry VIII, 215, 217
Henry de Valois, A Sharp Remon-
strance addressed to, 166
Herd, Annis, 220
Hereward the Wake, 208
Hermitage Castle, I I I
Herod Agrippa I, 7
Herodas, 199
Herodias, 142
Hertfordshire, witchcraft in, 23 I-
2, 237
Kess, Mdton, Alice, and Wilbert,
2 1-2
hexing, 22, 243-4, 	246
Hibbert 	Journal, 	The, 	(cited),
I 6
Hicks, Mary, 229
Hindoo Magic, 80
Hinningham Sible, (Sible Hed-
ingham), 	39, 	~ o g; 	wizard
swum at, 240--I
Hinslev of Westminster. Arch-
bishbp, 16
History of the Witches of Renfmu-
shire, A, 20
Hobbs, Deliverance, 74
Hocket, Marion, 43
Hockley, Frederick, 87
Holles, Denzil, Baron, 227
Holt, Sir John, 231
Holy Communion, profaned by
witches, 40-3
Home, Daniel Dunglas, 138
homcleopathic magic, 64
Honorius 111, Pope, 76
Hopkins, James, 224
Hopkins, Matthew, 72, 75, 128,
224-6
Hopkins, Nicholas, (Carthusian),
215
Horneck, Rev. Anthony, 141
H o d 	Sorcrries of 	Hemy 	de
Val&, 	The, 165
Horseheath, 37-8
Hott, goodwife, 128
How, Elizabeth, 20
Howin, A. W., 135
Hubert, St., 158

268 	INDEX
Hudibras, Grey's note on, 234
Hudson, K.C., Arthur, 206-7
Hume, Sir John, 212, 214
Humphrey, old Mother, 23
Hungary, witchcraft in, 50-1
Hunt, Alice, 220
Hunt, Robert, 228
Huntingdonshire, witchcraft in,
109, 111, 226
Huntingdon execution (fictitious),
229
Hutchinson, Margaret, 21
Huysmans, Jorris-Karl, 87, 179,
I94
Illasi, Camilla, 51
Illfurt, the possessed boys of, 18
image magic, 63-7
Imbert-Gourbeyre, Dr. Antoine,
I35
imp (familiar), 25
impostors claiming deity, 7-8
incense at Satanic masses, 168
Indians, levitation among North
American, 134-5
Inge. Very Rev. William Ralph, 6	- 	-
IM~S,M;. 	Andrew, 243
Innocent 111, Pope, 5
Innocent VIII, Pope, 47-8, 	101,
190
Institute of the Laws of Scotland,
24
Inverkeithing, I 02
Ireland, witchcraft in, I 9, 6 I, 244
Irish Times, The, (cited), 244
Isabelle, Dominique, I 56
Island-Magee witch trial, 230
Italy, witchcraft in, 51, 152, 154,
I55
Izzard, Anne, 238-9
Jack Sheppard, 121
Jacquette de Luxembourg, 2 14
Jahenny, Marie Julie, 136
Jamaican 	law 	against witches,
246, 248-9
Jamaican witchcraft, 79-80, 246-
250
James I of England, King, 37,
70, 101, 114, 151, 216, 217,
218, 222, 232, 234, 246, 259
James, Montague Rhodes, 254
jazz, or voodoo music, 153
Jennings, Mr. John, 213
Jerome, St., 10, 77, 192
Jersey 	Folk lore, 58
Jersey, witchcraft in, 57-9, 79,
110, 124
Joan of Arc, St., 120
Joan of Navarre, 21 1-212
John XXII, Pope, 252
John of Inverkeithing, 102
John 	O'London's 	Weekly (cited),
53
Johnson, Margaret, 128
Johnstone, Charles, I 86, I go
Joly, La, 171
Jones, Rev. Edmund, 27
Jones, Professor T. Gwynn, 26
Joseph of 	Copertino, St., 	136,
I37
Josephus, 192
Jourdemain, Margery, 2 I 2-2 I 3,
217
~ U - J U , 59-60
Jubette, 	176
Justine, 	175
Juxon, 	Rev. 	Joseph 	(preaches
against witchcraft), 236
Keiller, Alexander, 108
Kelley, Edward, 221
Kernp, Ursula, 2 I 9-22 I
Kempten, 230
Kent, witchcraft in, 128
Kerneslawe, John of, 209
Key of 	Solomon the King, The,
81 ff.
Khusrau 11, 7
Kilkenny, I 6 I
Kincaid, John, 69
Kirk, Rev. Robert, 68
kiss, obscene, 145-7

INDEX 	269
Knaresborough, I 27
Knyvet, Sir John, Chief Justice,
21 I
Kyteler, Dame Alice, 161
Lh-Bm, 179, I94
Lactantius, 199
ladder, the witch's, 244
Lakeland, Mary, 217
Lambe, Dr. John, 62, 75, 221
Lancashire, witchcraft in, 37,41,
67, 99, 	109, 125, 128, 131,
222-4
Lancashire witches, 	first 	case,
222-4 ; second case, 224
Langley Hall, Durham, 133
Langton, 	Walter 	(Bishop 	of
Coventry), 146, 209
Lapland witchcraft, 39, 125
Larivibre, M., 170
laws against witchcraft, 216-217 ;
repealed, 232-3
Lateran Council, Fourth, 5
Latoma, Babilla, 126, 202
Lawford (Essex), I 96
Ledos, Eugene-Claude-Fran~ois,
I94
Ledrede, Richard de (Bishop of
Ossory), 161
Leeuwerk, Leopold, 187-8
Legey, Dr. Fransoise, 160
legislation 	against 	witchcraft,
205-6, 207, 209, 215 ; under
Henry VIII, 216 ; Elizabeth,
216--218 ; James I, 216-218 ;
new, 233 : repeal of, 232, 234
Leicestershire, witchcraft in, 128,
236, 237
Leagh Chronicle, The(cited),243-4
Le Loyer, Pierre, 76
Lemaignan, abbt, 175
Lernmi, Adriano, I 14
Le Moigne, Isebell, 145, 149
Lendall, Mother, 128
Lepbre, La, 171
Lepreux, abbC, 174
Lesage, Adam Coeuret (Dubuis-
son), I73
Letters on Demonology and Witch-
craft ,235
Uvi, 	hiphas (19abbC Alphonse
Louis Constant), 97, 173
levitation, I 34-9
Lewis, Rev. Thomas, 27-8
lice, witches afflict their victims
with, 54-9
likeness (familiar), 25
Lilly, William, 222
Lincolnshire, witchcraft in, 42
Lindsay, 	Alexander 	William
Crawford, 25th Earl of Craw-
ford, and 8th Earl of Balcarres,
I37
Llanddewi Brefi, 42-3
Lloyd, Robert, 185
Lloyd, Temperance, 45,198, 229
Llwyd, Sir Dafydd, 26-8
London, 178
Lor, Jacobus de, I 12
Lothian, witchcraft in, 182-3
Louis X, I 12
Louis XIII, 252
Louis XIV, 157, 169 ff.
Louis XVI, 176
Luna, Pedro de (Benedict XIII),
252
Luna, Roderigo de, 252
Lyons, 178
Lynn, Linton Mrs., 239
Mabile, abM, 174
McKinley, President, 67
McQueen, Verlen, 250
Maggs, Messrs., 91
magic, distinguished from aor-
cey, 3-4 ; Swedenborg's defi-
mtlon of, 4
Magic, GhostsandAppmitionr, I 57
Magica de Specttis, 157
magician's chair, a, 215
Magus, or Celestial Intelligmer,
The, 95-6
Malescot, abM, 174
Malking Tower, 131, 148, 223
Malleus Male)icarum, 	140, 190,
244, 252

270 	INDEX
Malmesbury, I 29
Maloney, Rev. Mr., 181
Malvenda, 0.P., Thomas, 200,
201
Manningtree, 40, 128, 224
Mansfield, Alice, 220
Mansfield, Sir James (Lord), 181
manuscript grimoire (c. I ~ o o ) ,91
Manx sorcery, 43
M ~ P P ,Rupert, 79
M,ariette, AbbC, 171, 174
Marigny, Enguerrand 	de, 	I I 2,
113
Marshall, Robert, 2 10
Martins, Christiana, 243-4
Mary, the Sacred Name of, 203
Mary of Egypt, St., 136
Mary of Jesus, 136
Mary of Jesus Crucified, 136
Mary Magdalene, St ., 136
Mass, 	prohibited 	in 	England,
181-2
Mass of St. SCcaire, the, 188
Mather, Cotton, 5, 17, 106, 109,
111, 130
Mathers, S. L. M., 81
Matin, Le, 254
maumet (familiar), 25.
Mauritius, 178, 250-1
Mauvoisin, Archbishop of Aix,
Robert, 251-2
Maxwell, Donald, 51
Maymon (demon), 91
Mears Ashly, 237
Medal of St. Benedict, The, 18
Mediac (or Modiac, a demon), 91,
92
Medrnenham, the " Monks " of,
184 ff., 190
Merthyr 	Tydfil, witchcraft 	at,
257-8
" Messe du Saint Esprit," 	La,
I73
Mexico, execution in (fictitious),
230 ; execution in (prevented),
23 I.
Mlchlgan, witchcraft in, 245-6,
Middleton, Thomas, 	I 18, 193,
198
Milanese witches, 	banquet 	of,
I55
milk bewitched, 53-4, 	243
Minguet, BarthClemy, 147
Mirabelli, Carlos, I 38
Missal, the Devil's, 98
mock 	sacraments, 	182, 	183,
184, 186
Modern Spiritism, 193
Mohra, 130
Molland, Alice, 229
Mompesson, John, 54, 228
Monrnouthshire, 	witchcraft 	in,
239
Montespan, Fran~oise-Athenais,
Marquise de, 171, 172, 174
Montgomeryshire, witchcraft in,
53
MontlhCry, I 7 I
Montpensier, 	Mlle 	de 	(La
Grande Mademoiselle), 173
Moorish sorcery, 157, 160-1
moppet, 63-7
Mora, Pietro, 88-9
Morduck, Sarah, 231
More, Dr. Henry, 121, 128
M o d e , Nicolas, I 55
Mor&le,Nicolette, I 99
Morlaix, 132
Morley, Professor Henry, 94
Moming Post, The (cited), 72
Morpeth, 129
Moses, Rev. William Stainton,
138
music at the Sabbats, 152-4
Musselburgh, I 32
names given to witches, new,
20-1
Naples, witchcraft in, 64, 178
Native 	Tribes 	of 	South-East
Australia, The, 135
Naudt, Gabriel, 76
Nevillon, Silvain, 124, 168
Nevius, Dr. John L., 138

INDEX 	271
Newbury Falls, witches baptized
at, 130
Newes from Scotland, I I 7
Newton, Florence, 19
Newton, John, 129, 131
Nicetas, 199
Nicholas, Rev. 	Isaac (preaches
against witchcraft), 238-9
Nicolas, Mary, 239
nigget (familiar), 25
NoI1, Mrs., 22
Norfolk, witchcraft in, 55, 73,
75, 132-3, 226, 236
North Berwick, 131, 146, 147,
148
Northampton 	execution, 	ficti-
tious, 229
Northamptonshire, witchcraft in,
71, 226
Northumberland, witchcraft in,
71, 10&9, 	129, 131
Notre Dame (Paris), 178
Notre Dame de Lihou, 125
Nottingham, John of, 210-211
Noum 	I'Aiguilette 	(tying 	the
points), 59
Nowell, Roger, 223
Nutter, Elizabeth, 223
Oak, 	sacred 	among 	Aryan
peoples, 205
obayifo, 2
obeah (or obi), 2,79-80,246350
Oberycom (a familiar), 215
Occult Philosophy, Three Books of
(Cornelius Agrippa), 94-5
Occult Reweenew,	The, 226
ointment, witches', I 38-9, 141
Olivier, abbC, 174
On Witchcraft (Grilland), I 38
Orcieres, I 33
Oregon, 135
O r l h s , Philippe d', 	175
Orleans, witchcraft at, 189
Orthon (a familiar), 25
Osborne, John, 237
Osborne, Ruth, 237
Ossiach, 3 1-2
Ossory, 	Richard 	de 	Ledrede,
Bishop of, 161
Ouverture, Toussaint l', I 53
Overbury, Sir Thomas, 62
Paget, Thievenne, I 97
Paget, 	Thomas, 	third 	Baron
Paget, 111
Palladino, Eusapia, I 38
Palmer, John, 45
Palmer, Mother (of 	Frarnling-
ham), 55
Palud, Madeleine de la, 168, 189
Pantery, goodwife, 128
pap, witch's, 44-5
Papetard, Father, 135
Paracelsus, Theophrastus Bom-
bastus von Hohenheirn, 32
Paterson, Mr. (a " pricker "), 69
Paulmy, 	d'Argenson, 	Antoine
RenC Voyer, Marquis de, 83
pavana, the, 151
Peeblesshire, witchcraft in, 75
Peirse, Lady (Blanche M.), 65,
259
Penda of Mercia, King, 205
Penman, Gideon, 150, 182-3
Penny, Mary, 148
Perkins, William, 70-1
Perrers, Alice, 21 I
Peter, Hugh, 227
Peter of Abano, 95
Peter of Alcantara, St., 136
Petit Albert (term for witchcraft),
250-1
Petit Albert. Les Secrets du. 60,	. 	-
77, 78, 79
Petit Dragon R o w . Le. 11
Petit M€B, Le, 79
Petrone, Dominic, 196, 197
Petronius, I 99
phantom coaches, I 32-3
Philip the Deacon, St., 136
Philip Neri, St., 136
Philip IV of France, 112
Philip VI of France, 112
Phillips, Mary, 229
Philo, 192

272 	INDEX
Picard, Mathurin, 	115, 169
Pike, Albert, 114
Pitt, George Washington, 249
Plato, 192
Plymouth, witchcraft at, 73-4
poison 	employed 	by 	witches,
61-3, 	17-3
politics, Satanists meddle with,
16, 17, 112-114, 	149
Polstead, the witches of, 239-240
Poule Noire, La, 96
Powell, Mr. Justice, 232
Prelati, Antonio Francesco, 163,
'64
Prentice, Joan, 39-40
Priapic rites, 102
prickers of witches, 69-70
Prince, Rev. Henry James, 8
propaganda of Satanists, 99-100
Prudentius, 202
Psychic Phenomena of Jamaica, 2
puckrel (familiar), 25
punishment of witches, by their
masters, 149-1 50
puppets used in sorcery, 63-7
Puy-de-Dame, 147
Pye, Francis, 129
Queen of the Sabbat, the, 167
Queyran, Isaac de, 134
Rabbet, Thomas, 219
Raedwald, 	King 	of 	the 	East-
Angles, 205
Rais, Gilles de, 120, 163-4
Ramsbury, Wilts, I I I
Randolf, John, 21 1-212
Raphael (pseudonym, astrologer),
93
Ratcliffe, Thomazine, 55
Ratisbon, Berthold of, 40
Rattray, Captain R. Sutherland,
2
Raupert, J. Godfrey, 192
Raymond of Corasse, 25
Read, Mary, 45
Rebours, abM, 174
Red Book of Appin, the, 75-6
Red Revolution and Satanism in
Spain, 16
Redburn, Mother, 241-3
Redfearn, Anne, 223
Regino of PriLm, 142
Rehmeyer, Nelson, 21
Relation 	of 	the 	Apparition 	of
Spirits in the County of Mon-
mouth, A, 27-8
Remy, Nicolas, 19, 22, 105, 127,
144, 150, 156, 196, 197, 198,
202
repeal of witchcraft laws, 232-3
Reynie, Gabriel-Nicolas de la,
170, 171
Richard 11, 2 I I
Richard 111, 214
Richelieu, 	Armand- Jean 	Du
Plessis, Cardinal Duc de, 3
Richelieu, Louis 	Francois Ar-
mand 	Du 	Plessis, 	MarCchal
de France, Duc de, 175
Riding Mill witches, 108-9, 129,
131, 154, 158
ring of memory, a (erotic charm),
21 I
Rituel de la Haute Magie, 97
Robert I11 d'Artois, 	112, 113
Robin Artis (son of Art), 161
Robin Hood, 120, 121
Robinson, Joan, 220
Roca, abbC, 179
Romani, 170, 173
Rome, 178, 179
Rosimond 	(alias 	Osborne),
Father, I 10, 127
Rowley, William, I 18, 198
Rumania, all witchcraft banned
in, 251
Russell, Sir Edward, 16
1 Rynd, Mary, 158
I
Sabbat, 122 ff. ; attendance at
the, 130-1 	; banquets at the,
154-9 ; candles offered at the,
147 ; ceremonies to commence
the, 144-5 ; conclusion of the,
126, 201-3 ; 	dances at the,

INDEX 	*73
150-2 ; essential feature of the,
160 ; 	grand 	Sabbats, 	123 ;
held at Malking Tower, 223 ;
held 	on 	holy 	days, 	122-3 ;
held 	out 	of 	doors 	and 	in
houses, 	154 ; 	in 	England,
126-130 ; lesser Sabbats, 123 ;
liturgy of the, 160 ff. ; means
of 	going 	to 	the, 	131-144 ;
meeting-places for the, I 23-5 ;
music at the, I 52-4 .; 	time of
holding 	the, 	125-9 ; 	trans-
vection to the, 135-143
Sade, Donatien-Alphonse-Fran-
sois, Marquis (comte) de, 175
Sains, Marie de, 189
St. John, Oliver, 227
Saint Osyth, the witches of, 39,
109, 218-221
Saint-Pierre-du-Bois, I 39
Sainte-Buisson (familiar), 36
Sainte-Croix, Godin de, 63
Salamanca doctors, the, 155
Salem witchcraft, 20, 74-5, 	99,
111, 129-130, 	183
Salerno, 178
Salrnesbury, I 27
Salmon, Margery, 220
Salt, not seen at Witches' table,
157-8
Samael, 88
Samax (a demon), 91, 92
Sampson, Agnes, I 13, 114, 117,
118, 131, Is1
Sandwich, John Montagu, fourth
Earl of, 185
Sandys, George, I 13
Sarabotres (a demon), 91, 92
Satan's Invisible World Discov-
ered, 152-3
Satanic 	chapel 	discovered 	in
Palazm Borghese, I 80-1
Satanism andMagic (Jules Bois) 23
satanism foments Spanish revo-
lution, 16
Satanist picture (supposed), 251-
254.
Satanlsts, 	murders 	by, 	150 ;
punishment of, by their mas-
ters, 150
Sativa Norte, 231
Saul, King, 23-4
Saul, Barnabas, 221
Sawyer, Elizabeth, 44
Scatcherd, Felicia, 192
Schram, Dom Dominic, 191
Schwagelin, Anna Maria, 230
Schwartzburg (a succuba), I 97
Scotland, witchcraft in, 54, 68,
69-70, 	75, 99, 108, 113-114,
117-118, 124, 146, 147, 182-3,
149, 152-3, 	155, 158
Scott, Sir Walter, 235
Skbault, Jean-Baptiste, I 74-5
SCcaire, the Mass of St., 188
Secret Commonwealth, The, 68
Select Cases of Conscience, 196
Selwood Forest, 154
Selwyn, George, 184, 185
Sepher Toldos Jeschu, 77
Seysson, abbC, 174
Shadwell, Thomas, 	146
Shakespeare, William, 199
Shaw, Elinor, 229
Shore, Jane, 214
Shotley, Bridge, 129
Sible Hedingham 	(Hinningham
Sible), 39, 109 ; wizard swum
at, 240-1
Sicily, witchcraft in, 65
Sikes, Wirt, 26
SillC, Gilles de, 163
Simon, David, 248
Sinclar, Rev. George, 152
Sinistrari, Lodovico Maria, 192,
200
Sixth and Seventh Books of Moses,
The, 80
Sixtus V, Pope, IOI
Smith, Emma, 240-1
Smith, Sarah, 200
Smyth-Pigott, 	Rev. 	Thomas
Henry, 8
Social England, 234
Soldan-Heppe (Dr. W. G. Soldan
and Henriette Heppe), 104

274 	INDEX
Somerset, 	Frances 	Howard,
Countess of, 62, 221
Somerset, witchcraft in, 10, 19,
23,49-50,64, 	114,125-6, 131,
133, 147, 148, 154, 158,228-9
246
songs, 	lewd sung at 	Sabbats,
152-3
Soraers. Les (Daneau). I 18
sorcery'and magic, the technical
distinction between, 3-4
Soulis, William, Lord, I I 1-1 12
Southwell, Canon Thomas, 2 I 2,
213-214
Sowe, Richard de, 210
Spain, Satanism in, 16
Spain, Lieut.-Colonel, G. R. B.,
r 08 	b
Spara, Hieronyma, 63
Spranger, Bartholomew, I 54, I 56
Stammers, Samuel, 240--I
Stanley, Earl of Derby, Ferdi-
n a n d ~ ,18
Stearne, John, 225, 226
Stebbings, Isaac, 239
Steele, Robert, 234
Stewart, Francis, Earl of Both-
well, 113-114
Stile, Elizabeth, I 10
Stoke Trister, 10, 23, 125, 133-4
Strassburg, 148
Study of the Midnight Sabbats of
Witches, A (Tartarotti), I 03-4
Style, Elizabeth, 10, 23, 134, 147
Suffolk, witchcraft in, 34-5, 	44,
45, 197, 226, 229, 238, 239
Suffolk Chronzcle, 	The 	(clted),
239
Sulby Abbey, 21 5
Summary of 	All the Crimes of
Witches, A, 67, 146
Sunday 	Chronicle, 	The (cited),
38
Sussex, 	witchcraft 	in, 	49, 	55,
73
Suth (a demon), 91, 92
Swaziland, witchcraft in, 230-1
Swedenborg, Emmanuel, 4
Swedish witches, 20, 130, 141,
I54
Sweeney Todd, 121
swimming ordeal, 70-2, 236 ff.
Switzerland, witchcraft in, 148,
230
sympathetic magic, 64
Taarn (accursed food), 157
Tacquet, Jean, 149
Taillepied, Fr. Noel, 24
Talbot, Hon. James, Bishop of
Birtha, 181
Tartarotti, Girolarno, I 03-4
Taunton, 141
Tavistock, 52
Taylor, Thomas, I 19
TchCziot, le, I 10
Teat, witch's, 44-5
Tedworth, 	the 	demon 	of, 54,
228
Temptation of our Lord, 8
Teresa, St., 136
Ternant, Fr. Philip De, 153
Terragon (a demon), 166
Theodoret, I 99
Theophilus of Adana, ro
Thiers, Jean-Baptiste, I 73
Thomas, La, 171
Thomas B Becket, St., 120, 121
Thomas Aquinas, 	St., 	17, 77,
136, 140
Throgmorton, Sir Robert, 109
Thurlow, Grace, 219
Thurston, S.J., Rev. Herbert, g
Tibb (familiar), 37
Tibet sorcerers, I 17
Tibullus, 199
Tiffauges, I 63
Tilly-sur-Seulles, I 77
I Times, The (cited), 49, 235, 236,
' 	239, 240, 243, 251
1 Toffania, La, 63
I Tom, John Nichols, 7-8
, Torralba, Dr. Eugenio, 32-4
I Toulouse, 200
1 Tournet, abbe, 174

INDEX 	*75
traitors, 	the 	Satanists 	punish, I Voisin, Catherine La, 61, 63, 82,
150
Tranent, 152
Transcendental Magic (Waite), 97
transvection of sorcerers, aerial,
'34-5, 	138-9
Travnik (Bosnia), 74
treason, petty 	and 	high, aided
by witchcraft, 217
Treatise of Ghosts, A (Taillepied),
24
Treatise on the Angelic Hosts, A,
191
Trembles, Mary, 229
Trenquellbon, Adhle de, 176
Trial of 	Witchcraft, The, 68
Trianon, La, 170
Trois-eschelles du 	Mayne, 	17,
164
True and Only Key, The, 	87,
88
Turner, Mrs. Anne, 62
Tweedale, Violet, 3 5 4
Twogood, Maude, 11I
Twyford, 236
tying the points, 59
Ubald of Gubbio, St., 77
Universe, The (cited), 16, 153
Vagrancy Act, 233-4
Val Camonica, I 30
Vallihe, Louise, Duchesse de La,
171
Valori, Prince, 35
Van Ecke (Arche), Canon, 179
Vanens (Varnens) De, 173
Vauxtravers, Sabbat at, I 10
Vercan (a demon), 91,
Vezins, Jean Aim6 de Levezon
de, 176
Vincennes, I 65
Vintras, 	Pierre-Michel-Eughe,
I77
Virginie (of Agen), 177-8
Vitry, Jacques de, 40
157, 170-5
Vollhart, Maria, 138
Voodoo, 153, 250
Voodoo music of witches, 153
Voragine, Jacopo de, 192
Vox Populi (Accra), 206
Waite, Arthur Edward, 84, 97
Walcher of Durham, Bishop, 120
Waldensian sorcerers, I 3, 14, 18,
21, 40-1, 99, 147, I49
Wales, witchcraft in, 26-8, 41-2,
53, 93-48 	243, 244-5
Walker, Richard, 215
wall 	painting 	(Palseolithic) of
sorcerer, I I 6
Walpurgis-Nacht, die, I 23
Walsh, John, 92
Waltham, 109
Warboys, 109
Warham, John de, 73
Waterhouse, Mother, 39, 54
wax figures used in sorcery, 63-7
Weakley, Leonard, 79-80
Webster (of Clitheroe), John, 61,
1I4
Weir, Major Thomas, 132
Welsh Folklore and Folk Custom,
26
Wenham, Jane, 231-2
West, Rebecca, 93, 196
Weyer, Dr. Johann, 139
Whitehead, Paul, I 85
Wholesome 	Instruction 	in 	the
Christian Faith, A, 3-4
Wickham Skeith, 239
Wilkes, John, 185
William I, the Conqueror, 207,
208
William Rufus, 120, 121
Williams, S.J., Joseph J., 2, a47
Williamson of Cardrona, Mr., 75
Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, John,
222
Wiltshire, witchcraft in, I I I
Wincanton, 131, 133, 153, 229

276 	INDEX
Windsor, witches of, 37, I 10, 127
Witch, The (Middleton), I 93
witch trial, last English, 232
witches' Bible, 79
witch's ladder, 244
witches' mark, 67 ff.
Witherenden, 55
Withers (a warlock), 75
Wolsey, Cardinal, 21 5
Wonders of the Imrisible W d ,
The, 26
Wononi (familiar). 36
woodha&, William,-2 I 2, 2 I 4
Worcester, battle of, 226
World tost at Temrir, The, I 18,
198
Wright, C.R.P.,Thomas, 215
Wye Valley, witchcraft in, 53
Yarmouth, 	witchcraft 	at, 	75,
132-3
York, 178
Yorkshire, 	witchcraft 	in, 	64,
Zachary, Saint ; Pope, 205
Zekerboni, 88 ff.
Zequiel (a familiar), 32-4
Ziarnko, Jan, 154, 156
Printed in Great Britain by Stcphm Austin d Sons, Ltd., Hertford.
