Michael D. Bailey
a
Historical
Dictionary
of
Witchcraft

HISTORICAL DICTIONARIES OF RELIGIONS,
PHILOSOPHIES, AND MOVEMENTS
Edited by Jon Woronoff
1. Buddhism, by Charles S. Prebish, 1993
2. Mormonism, by Davis Bitton, 1994. Out of print. See No. 32.
3. Ecumenical Christianity, by Ans Joachim van der Bent, 1994
4. Terrorism, by Sean Anderson and Stephen Sloan, 1995. Out of
print. See No. 41.
5. Sikhism, by W. H. McLeod, 1995
6. Feminism, by Janet K. Boles and Diane Long Hoeveler, 1995
7. Olympic Movement, by Ian Buchanan and Bill Mallon, 1995. Out
of print. See No. 39.
8. Methodism, by Charles Yrigoyen Jr. and Susan E. Warrick, 1996
9. Orthodox Church, by Michael Prokurat, Alexander Golitzin, and
Michael D. Peterson, 1996
10. Organized Labor, by James C. Docherty, 1996
11. Civil Rights Movement, by Ralph E. Luker, 1997
12. Catholicism, by William J. Collinge, 1997
13. Hinduism, by Bruce M. Sullivan, 1997
14. North American Environmentalism, by Edward R. Wells and Alan
M. Schwartz, 1997
15. Welfare State, by Bent Greve, 1998
16. Socialism, by James C. Docherty, 1997
17. Bahá’í Faith, by Hugh C. Adamson and Philip Hainsworth, 1998
18. Taoism, by Julian F. Pas in cooperation with Man Kam Leung,
1998
19. Judaism, by Norman Solomon, 1998
20. Green Movement, by Elim Papadakis, 1998
21. Nietzscheanism, by Carol Diethe, 1999
22. Gay Liberation Movement, by Ronald J. Hunt, 1999
23. Islamic Fundamentalist Movements in the Arab World, Iran, and
Turkey, by Ahmad S. Moussalli, 1999
24. Reformed Churches, by Robert Benedetto, Darrell L. Guder, and
Donald K. McKim, 1999
25. Baptists, by William H. Brackney, 1999
26. Cooperative Movement, by Jack Shaffer, 1999
27. Reformation and Counter-Reformation, by Hans J. Hillerbrand, 2000

28. Shakers, by Holley Gene Duffield, 2000
29. United States Political Parties, by Harold F. Bass Jr., 2000
30. Heidegger’s Philosophy, by Alfred Denker, 2000
31. Zionism, by Rafael Medoff and Chaim I. Waxman, 2000
32. Mormonism, 2nd ed., by Davis Bitton, 2000
33. Kierkegaard’s Philosophy, by Julia Watkin, 2001
34. Hegelian Philosophy, by John W. Burbidge, 2001
35. Lutheranism, by Günther Gassmann in cooperation with Duane H.
Larson and Mark W. Oldenburg, 2001
36. Holiness Movement, by William Kostlevy, 2001
37. Islam, by Ludwig W. Adamec, 2001
38. Shinto, by Stuart D. B. Picken, 2002
39. Olympic Movement, 2nd ed., by Ian Buchanan and Bill Mallon,
2001
40. Slavery and Abolition, by Martin A. Klein, 2002
41. Terrorism, 2nd ed., by Sean Anderson and Stephen Sloan, 2002
42. New Religious Movements, by George D. Chryssides, 2001
43. Prophets in Islam and Judaism, by Scott B. Noegel and Brannon
M. Wheeler, 2002
44. The Friends (Quakers), by Margery Post Abbott, Mary Ellen
Chijioke, Pink Dandelion, and John William Oliver, Jr., 2003
45. Lesbian Liberation Movement: Still the Rage, JoAnne Myers,
2003
46. Descartes and Cartesian Philosophy, by Roger Ariew, Dennis Des
Chene, Douglas M. Jesseph, Tad M. Schmaltz, and Theo Verbeek,
2003
47. Witchcraft, by Michael D. Bailey, 2003

Historical Dictionary
of Witchcraft
Michael D. Bailey
Historical Dictionaries of Religions,
Philosophies, and Movements, No. 47
The Scarecrow Press, Inc.
Lanham, Maryland, and Oxford
2003

SCARECROW PRESS, INC.
Published in the United States of America
by Scarecrow Press, Inc.
A wholly owned subsidiary of
The Rowman & Littlefield Publishing Group, Inc.
4501 Forbes Boulevard, Suite 200, Lanham, Maryland 20706
www.scarecrowpress.com
PO Box 317
Oxford
OX2 9RU, UK
Copyright © 2003 by Michael D. Bailey
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise,
without the prior permission of the publisher.
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Information Available
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Bailey, Michael David, 1971–
Historical dictionary of witchcraft / by Michael D. Bailey.— 1st ed.
p. 	cm. — (Historical dictionaries of religions, philosophies,
and movements ; no. 47)
Includes bibliographical references.
ISBN 0-8108-4860-0 (alk. paper)
1. Witchcraft—History—Dictionaries. 	I. Title. II. Series.
BF1566 .B25 2003
133.4 ' 3 ' 03—dc21 	2003011520
∞™ The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements of
American National Standard for Information Sciences—Permanence of Paper
for Printed Library Materials, ANSI/NISO Z39.48-1992.
Manufactured in the United States of America.

To my father


Contents
vii
Editor’s Foreword 	Jon Woronoff 	ix
Acknowledgments 	xi
Chronology 	xiii
Introduction 	xxi
THE DICTIONARY 	1
Bibliography 	151
About the Author 	199


Editor’s Foreword
ix
A book on witchcraft at the dawn of the new century? Most definitely
so. Without a good knowledge of the subject, one cannot understand
earlier periods in Europe and European overseas colonies when there
was widespread concern with witches, so intense that it culminated in
witch-hunts and burnings. Nor can one understand the situation in many
other ancient or “primitive” cultures well beyond Europe, indeed, al-
most worldwide, where a belief in creatures resembling witches was—
and sometimes still is—very strong. Nor can one even understand the
present (and doubtless future) with the emergence of modern witch-
craft, also known as Wicca. This book, fortunately, takes a broader view,
looking back, looking beyond Western civilization, and looking into the
present (bordering on the future).
Obviously, most of this Historical Dictionary of Witchcraft concen-
trates on witchcraft in the older, more traditional sense. It therefore in-
cludes entries on persons who strongly influenced the mood of the
times, who wrote about witches and how to find them, who brought
them to trial and sometimes had them burned, or who defended them
and gradually convinced broader society that perhaps those punished
were not actually witches, maybe there was no such thing. This amidst
other entries on how to ascertain if someone was a witch, how to ex-
tract a confession from such a person, what the punishment could be,
and also why so many witches were women. But the most intriguing
entries are often about the appearance of similar phenomena in other
cultures and especially the return of witchcraft in the West, long after
it seemed to be disappearing, and in surprising new forms. The trajec-
tory is easier to follow (thanks to a brief chronology), easier to under-
stand (thanks to a general introduction), and easier to read (thanks to a
substantial bibliography).

This book was written by an academic, and not a practicing witch, as
is increasingly the custom. So he views the subject of witchcraft from
without and not within, which is a better vantage point for most of us
and helps us grasp the many twists and turns of an endlessly intriguing
subject. Michael D. Bailey has been interested in European witchcraft
ever since he was a student at Northwestern University, writing his dis-
sertation and later his first book on the rise of witchcraft in late-
medieval Europe and on one of the preeminent early authorities to write
about witchcraft, the German Dominican Johannes Nider. He also stud-
ied medieval history in countries where the witch-hunts were most vir-
ulent, Germany and Switzerland. Since then, Dr. Bailey has taught at
Bethany College, the University of Cincinnati, Saint Louis University,
and currently at Iowa State University, where he continues to write on
various aspects of the medieval period, sorcery, and witchcraft. For this
historical dictionary, he has expanded his horizons substantially to bring
in the wider world and the current period, which make the whole mat-
ter considerably more interesting and in some ways more comprehensi-
ble, or less, depending on one’s intellectual position.
Jon Woronoff
Series Editor
x • EDITOR’S FOREWORD

Acknowledgments
xi
I would like to thank, first of all, Richard Kieckhefer, who has taught
me much about the history of European witchcraft, both directly and
through his writings, and who initially recommended to Scarecrow
Press that I should author this dictionary. Thanks go also to Jon
Woronoff, who invited me to undertake the project and has seen me
through it. I began this project while at the Department of History at the
University of Cincinnati, wrote most of the entries during a year I spent
as a Visiting Scholar at the Medieval Institute of the University of Notre
Dame, and completed the book while I was a member of the Depart-
ment of History at Saint Louis University. I am grateful to each of these
institutions for their support. Both in my academic life and beyond,
Christine Caldwell has helped me in ways too extensive to recount. My
thanks to her here is only a small indication of what I owe her.


Chronology
xiii
Ca. 1750 B.C.E . 	The Code of Hammurabi, one of the first written law
codes, contains sections dealing with magic and legal charges of sorcery
and witchcraft.
Ca. 400 B .C.E. 	By this time, magicians (magoi) come to have a very
negative reputation in ancient Greece. They are condemned by Plato,
among others.
Ca. 150–400 C.E. 	Early Christian writers such as Tertullian, Origen,
and John Chrysostom condemn magic by associating it with demonic
forces, while defending Christian miracles as non-magical.
375 	The Council of Laodicaea forbids Christian clergy from practic-
ing any form of magic.
425 	Augustine completes The City of God, sections of which become
foundational for later Christian demonology and the theory of demonic
pacts associated with magic and witchcraft.
438 	The imperial law code of Theodosius II prescribes severe penal-
ties for those convicted of practicing magic or divination.
529 	The code of Justinian reiterates earlier severe penalties for magic
and divination.
789 	Charlemagne issues legislation against sorcerers and magicians
for his entire kingdom.
Ca. 906 	An early version of the canon Episcopi, describing groups
of women who believe that they fly through the night with the god-
dess Diana, appears in a collection of legal canons made by Regino
of Prüm.

1022 	The first known burning of heretics in medieval Europe occurs
at Orléans.
Ca. 1140 	Gratian’s Decretum, one of the first standard texts of me-
dieval canon law, includes several sections dealing with magic, sorcery,
and superstition, including a version of the canon Episcopi.
1184 	Pope Lucius III issues the decree Ad abolendam, which orders
bishops and other ecclesiastical officials to rigorously investigate cases
of heresy.
1215 	The Fourth Lateran Council of the church regularizes proce-
dures to be used against heretics.
1231 	Pope Gregory IX commissions the first papally appointed in-
quisitors to hear cases involving heresy.
1233 	Pope Gregory IX issues the decree Vox in Rama, in which he de-
scribes heretics gathering to worship a demon in the form of a toad or a
pallid man, and then engaging in sexual orgies, similar to later notions
of witches’ sabbaths.
Ca. 1250–1275 	Thomas Aquinas establishes much of the basic
scholastic understanding of magic and demonology in his many theo-
logical works, including his Summa contra gentiles (Summa Against
the Gentiles) and Summa theologiae (Summa of Theology).
1258 	Pope Alexander IV orders papal inquisitors not to inquire into
matters of sorcery unless the sorcery also involves “manifest heresy,”
primarily meaning the worship of demons.
1307–1314 	Arrest and trial of the Knights Templar in France. Al-
though charges of sorcery do not figure significantly in these events, the
trial exhibits many of the features—diabolism, conspiracy theories, and
forced confessions—that later characterize witch trials.
1324–1325 	Trial of Lady Alice Kytler in Kilkenny, Ireland, for prac-
ticing sorcery with the aid of a demon.
Ca. 1324 	The inquisitor Bernard Gui writes his handbook Practica
inquisitionis heretice pravitatis (The Practice of Inquisition into Hereti-
cal Depravity), which includes sections on sorcery and demonic magic.
xiv • CHRONOLOGY

1326 	Pope John XXII issues the Decretal Super illius specula, in which
he declares a blanket excommunication on anyone who summons demons
or enters into pacts with them for the purpose of performing sorcery.
1376 	The inquisitor Nicolau Eymeric writes his highly influential in-
quisitorial manual Directorium inquisitorum (Directory of Inquisitors),
in which he proves the necessarily heretical nature of all magic involv-
ing the invocation of demons, and hence the legal jurisdiction of eccle-
siastical inquisitors over most types of sorcery.
1398 	The theological faculty of the University of Paris condemns var-
ious forms of superstition and the practice of sorcery in 28 articles.
Ca. 1400 	One of the earliest known witch-hunts in European history
(although in reality the trials probably dealt only with simply sorcery
and maleficium) takes place in the Simme valley in the western Alps.
Ca. 1425–1500 	The beginnings of the major European witch-hunts
can be traced to this period. The number of trials in which harmful sor-
cery, or maleficium, is linked to diabolism rises significantly, and many
early treatises on witchcraft are written.
1426 	The Franciscan preacher and moral reformer Bernardino of
Siena witnesses an early trial for witchcraft in Rome.
Ca. 1428 	The Lucerne chronicler Hans Fründ describes witchcraft in
the diocese of Sion in the western Alps.
Ca. 1436 	Claude Tholosan, a secular judge in the French region of
Dauphiné, writes a treatise Ut magorum et maleficiorum errores mani-
festi ignorantibus fiant (That the Errors of Magicians and Witches May
be Made Clear to the Ignorant), detailing the practices of witchcraft
based on trials he had conducted in Dauphiné and arguing that secular
courts should have jurisdiction over this crime. Also around this time,
an anonymous clerical author writes Errores Gazariorum (Errors of the
Gazarii), a brief but extremely lurid description of witchcraft and the
witches’ sabbath.
1436–1438 	The Dominican theologian Johannes Nider writes his
Formicarius (The Anthill), a long moralizing treatise containing some
of the most extensive early accounts of witchcraft to appear in Europe.
CHRONOLOGY • xv

1440–1442 	The French cleric Martin Le Franc writes the long poem
Le Champion des Dames (The Defender of Ladies), which includes a
section on witchcraft.
1458 	The French inquisitor Nicholas Jacquier writes the influential
treatise Flagellum haereticorum fascinariorum (Scourge of Heretical
Witches), one of the first major treatises devoted exclusively to witch-
craft and witch-hunting.
1474 	Heinrich Kramer (Institoris) is made inquisitor in southern Ger-
many, where he presides over numerous witch trials.
1478 	The Spanish Inquisition is established.
1484 	Pope Innocent VIII issues the bull Summis desiderantes af-
fectibus, ordering that inquisitors in German lands should not be hin-
dered or prevented from exercising their authority in matters of sorcery
and witchcraft. The bull is later included in the Malleus maleficarum.
1486 	Malleus maleficarum (Hammer of Witches) is written by the
Dominican inquisitor Heinrich Kramer.
1487 	Malleus maleficarum is published in the first of many printed
editions.
Ca. 1500–1575 	The steady rise in the number of witch trials, evident
since the early 15th century, levels off in this period, and in some areas
the number of witch trials even declines.
1532 	The Carolina legal code is enacted for all the lands of the Ger-
man Empire. It deals, in part, with matters of witchcraft.
1542 	The Roman Inquisition is established by Pope Paul III.
1563 	A statute ordering the death penalty for witches is passed in
England. Stringent witchcraft laws are also passed in Scotland. Johann
Weyer publishes De praestigiis daemonum (On the Deceptions of
Demons), a treatise that is skeptical of various aspects of witchcraft.
1566 	The first major witch-hunt in England takes place at Chelms-
ford, Essex.
Ca. 1575–1675 	Witch-hunting reaches its height in most regions of
Europe.
xvi • CHRONOLOGY

1580 	The French political philosopher Jean Bodin publishes his very
influential treatise on demonology and witchcraft, De la démonomanie
des sorciers (On the Demonomania of Witches).
1582–1594 	A series of witch-trials take place in the archbishopric and
electoral principality of Trier in the German Empire.
1584 	The skeptical English thinker Reginald Scot publishes his Dis-
coverie of Witchcraft.
1589 	Dietrich Flade, vice-governor of Trier and the highest ranking
victim of any witch-hunt in Europe, is executed. Peter Binsfeld, suffra-
gan bishop of Trier, writes a Tractatus de confessionibus maleficorum et
sagarum (On the Confessions of Witches), defending the necessity of
witch trials and the procedures used in them.
1590–1591 	A group of supposed witches from North Berwick, Scot-
land, are put on trial; the Scottish king James VI takes part in the pro-
ceedings.
1593 	The skeptical theologian Cornelius Loos, who had criticized a
recent wave of witch-hunting in Trier, is forced to recant publicly. He is
then exiled from Trier to Brussels.
1595 	The French magistrate and important demonologist Nicholas
Rémy publishes his Daemonolatreiae (Demonolatry).
1597 	King James VI of Scotland (from 1603 also James I of England)
publishes his Daemonologie (Demonology).
1599 	The first edition of the Jesuit Martin Del Rio’s Disquisitiones
magicarum (Disquisitions on Magic) is published.
1604 	A new witchcraft act is passed in England, establishing much
harsher penalties for the crime.
1608 	The Italian friar Francesco Maria Guazzo publishes his Com-
pendium maleficarum (Handbook of Witches), which becomes the most
important and influential such manual used in Italy. In England,
William Perkin’s Discourse on the Damned Art of Witchcraft is pub-
lished posthumously.
1609–1614 	A major outbreak of witch-hunting occurs in the Basque
lands in southwestern France and northern Spain.
CHRONOLOGY • xvii

1623–1633 	Severe witch-hunts take place in Bamberg, Germany, un-
der the so-called Hexenbischof (Witch-Bishop) Johann Georg II.
1631 	The German Jesuit Friedrich Spee publishes (anonymously) the
Cautio criminalis (Warning for Prosecutors), a harsh critique of the pro-
cedures by which most witch trials are conducted.
1633–1634 	A famous case of mass possession occurs among nuns in
a convent at Loudun, France.
1645–1646 	The infamous witch-hunter Matthew Hopkins directs the
most intense witch-hunt in English history, primarily in the counties of
Essex and Suffolk, leading to the execution of more than 200 victims.
1661–1662 	During the “great Scottish witch-hunt,” hundreds of trials
and executions occur throughout the country.
1669 	Severe witch-hunts occur in Mora in central Sweden. These in
turn help trigger hunts in other areas of the country.
Ca. 1675–1750 	In this period, most regions in Europe see a steady re-
duction and end of witch-hunting.
1682 	King Louis XIV reclassifies the crime of witchcraft in France as
mere “superstition,” no longer warranting capital punishment, effec-
tively ending legally sanctioned witch-hunting in that country.
1689 	Cotton Mather preaches about the dangers of witchcraft in
Boston, Massachusetts.
1692 	The famous witch trials of Salem, Massachusetts, take place.
1736 	The Witchcraft Act of 1604 is repealed in Great Britain, effec-
tively decriminalizing witchcraft in that country.
1782 	A woman named Anna Göldi is executed for witchcraft in the
Swiss Canton of Glarus. This is the last execution for witchcraft in Eu-
rope carried out under full and unequivocal legal sanction.
1793 	Two women are executed for witchcraft in Posnan, Poland,
which is at that time just passing under Prussian authority. Local courts
sanction the execution, but it seems clear that if higher authorities, ei-
ther Polish or Prussian, had been able to act, the sentence would not
have been carried out.
xviii • CHRONOLOGY

1828 	The German scholar Karl-Ernst Jarcke advances the argument
that historical witchcraft was actually a pre-Christian, pagan religion.
1888 	The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, an elite secret society
devoted to ritual magic, is founded in England.
1899 	The amateur folklorist Charles Leland publishes Aradia, or the
Gospel of the Witches, an account of the history and beliefs of the sup-
posedly ancient religion of witchcraft in Italy.
1921 	The British academic Margaret Murray publishes The Witch-
Cult in Western Europe, the first of three studies in which she argues
that historical witchcraft was actually a form of an ancient pagan fertil-
ity religion.
1937 	British anthropologist E. E. Evans-Pritchard publishes Witch-
craft, Oracles and Magic among the Azande, a very influential study of
African systems of magic and witchcraft.
1954 	Gerald Gardner publishes Witchcraft Today, laying the founda-
tions for modern witchcraft, or Wicca.
1966 	Anton Le Vey founds the Church of Satan in San Francisco, the
most important group within modern Satanism. This movement is not,
however, associated in any direct way with modern Wicca.
1972 	In a decision by the Internal Revenue Service, the Church of
Wicca becomes the first Wiccan organization to achieve official federal
recognition as a religion in the United States.
1979 	The Wiccan author Starhawk publishes The Spiral Dance. Mar-
got Alder publishes Drawing Down the Moon. Both become founda-
tional books for modern Wicca in the United States and elsewhere.
1989 	Aidan Kelly, a student of Wicca, publishes Crafting the Art of
Magic, a thorough study of Gerald Gardner’s papers relating to his de-
velopment of modern witchcraft. The British academic Tanya
Luhrmann publishes Persuasions of the Witch’s Craft, the first major
study of modern witchcraft done outside the movement.
1999 	Ronald Hutton publishes The Triumph of the Moon, the first ma-
jor academic historical study of modern witchcraft and neo-paganism.
CHRONOLOGY • xix


Introduction
xxi
Witchcraft is an important and difficult historical subject. Throughout
human history, most cultures and societies have conceived of certain
categories of malevolent people who are supposedly able to access or
exhibit powers of great supernatural evil. In Europe during the Middle
Ages and the early-modern period, such people were believed to be in
league with the devil and bent on the destruction of Christian society on
earth. For over 300 years, from the 15th to the 18th centuries, social fear
and legal paranoia led to the prosecution, and ultimately the execution,
of tens of thousands of people for the supposed crime of witchcraft. The
period is often described as being the era of “the great witch-hunts,” or,
by more sensationalistic authors, simply as the “burning times.” Accu-
rate figures are difficult to establish, but it seems that the number of tri-
als for witchcraft exceeded 100,000 during this period, and the number
of people executed as witches exceeded 50,000. Such figures are low in
comparison to some overly credulous accounts (one occasionally still
encounters claims that the victims of the witch-hunts numbered in the
hundreds of thousands or even millions), and they certainly pale when
compared to the scale of deadly repression exercised by some govern-
ments in the modern world. Nevertheless, especially in regions of par-
ticular intensity, the witch-hunts were a major preoccupation of early-
modern religious and state authorities. Moreover, the number of trials
alone surely does not indicate all those whose lives were affected in
some way, and certainly almost never for the good, by suspicions of
witchcraft during this time.
The primary focus of this dictionary will fall on the historical phe-
nomenon of witchcraft as defined and constructed in Europe during the
era of the great witch-hunts. Other varieties of magic and conceptions
of harmful sorcery in other periods of history and in other world cul-
tures will, however, also be treated to some extent. Because the concept

of witchcraft in medieval and early-modern Europe was informed by
ideas, beliefs, and practices from the earlier Christian era, as well as
from classical antiquity, some attention must also be given to those pe-
riods. Outside of the major Western civilizations, ideas of harmful
magic and witchcraft have manifested in many ways. In particular,
African varieties of witchcraft have been studied and often used as a ba-
sis for comparison with historical witchcraft in Europe. Such anthropo-
logically informed scholarship has done much to increase understand-
ing of how belief in witchcraft can function at a social level. Other
magical beliefs and practices around the world have themselves been
influenced by aspects of European witchcraft. For example, concep-
tions of harmful sorcery and those who practice it associated with the
religion of Voodoo in Haiti and elsewhere in the Caribbean seem heav-
ily influenced by Christian notions of witches. In addition, some treat-
ment will be given to the modern world because not all of the beliefs
that characterized historical witchcraft in Europe vanished with the end
of the witch-hunts, and some have persisted even to the present day.
Moreover, there now exists a substantial movement (or movements) of
modern witchcraft, commonly termed Wicca. Although there is no cred-
ible evidence of any direct connection between the modern and histori-
cal variants of witchcraft in the Western world, some individuals and
groups within modern witchcraft maintain that such connections do ex-
ist, and certainly some groups outside of modern witchcraft persist in
associating modern witches with historical stereotypes.
DEFINITIONS
Anyone trying to understand witchcraft in a broad yet accurate histori-
cal sense must confront a number of problems, of which perhaps none
is more basic than the difficult question of how to define exactly what
elements constitute witchcraft. Seen in one way, witchcraft appears as a
virtually universal and seemingly perennial aspect of almost all human
cultures. Regarded in another way, the concept of witchcraft is highly
contingent on historical time and place. Certainly, the crime for which
tens of thousands of people went to their deaths in Europe and colonial
America in the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries—the period of the great
European witch-hunts—could only have existed, and can only be un-
xxii • INTRODUCTION

derstood, within the specific Christian culture that prevailed at that
time. By those who fear its reality, witchcraft has always been defined
as a set of actions, practices, and behaviors that certain people actually
perform to supposedly terrible effect, and witches are believed to cause
great evil in the world through the harmful sorcery that they work, gen-
erally in close alliance with dark, supernatural forces. If one accepts this
belief, then such a crime is certainly worthy of the harshest penalties
any society can impose. To those skeptical of the reality of witchcraft,
on the other hand, it exists only, or at least predominantly, as a construct
in the minds of those who would use it as an excuse to persecute, and
those accused of witchcraft are innocent victims caught in a deadly web
of false beliefs and pious convictions.
These problems of definition are not just modern ones. Even during
the period of the great European witch-hunts, when belief in the real ex-
istence and effectiveness of witchcraft was far more widespread than it
is today, there were always those who doubted elements of the witch-
stereotype. Given the level of general belief in magic and supernatural
power in pre-modern European society, at least some of the people
brought into court on charges of witchcraft probably were actually try-
ing to perform some form of harmful sorcery that they thought would
be effective against others in their communities. This does not mean,
however, that these people necessarily thought that they had sold their
souls to the devil or that they, in fact, gathered with others at secret con-
venticles in order to worship demons, as they were typically accused of
doing (although certain individuals might actually have engaged in such
activities in some way). Likewise, even some authorities, convinced of
the power of the devil in the world and certain that some people were
indeed entering his service in order to gain supernatural powers, were
nonetheless skeptical about the existence of a vast, diabolically organ-
ized, conspiratorial cult of witches, and feared that a large number of
false confessions were being obtained by the courts through the exces-
sive use of torture and by other means. Authorities in the late-medieval
and early-modern periods also had to explain the apparent newness of
the threat posed by large numbers of witches—nothing like it had ever
been described in earlier sources—while still maintaining the suppos-
edly perennial nature of demonic power and diabolic evil.
Taken in the broadest sense, witchcraft can be defined as the per-
formance of various harmful acts through sorcery. The belief that certain
INTRODUCTION • xxiii

people can and do work such harmful sorcery appears to have existed in
almost every human culture throughout history. Witchcraft is also gen-
erally regarded as a low or common form of magic, as opposed to high
or learned magic, which requires much arcane knowledge and training
and is limited to certain elite groups within society. Acts of witchcraft
typically involve only simple gestures, spells, or rituals, and witches are
usually uneducated people of low social status, more frequently women
than men. In many cases, the power of witchcraft is often regarded as
somehow inherent in the witch herself, as opposed to lying in the ritual
actions or spells that she performs. This special status that marks the
witch herself as being intrinsically evil, as opposed to just performing
evil acts, might be inherited from other family members or derived from
some personal association with dark, supernatural forces.
All of these definitions of witchcraft might be applied to aspects of
magic (itself a word that is extremely difficult to define precisely for all
situations in which it is used) in many different human cultures and his-
torical contexts. Yet the actual word “witchcraft,” as well as its cognates
in other European languages such as the German Hexerei or even to
some extent the earlier French sorcellerie, developed to describe a par-
ticular phenomenon that existed, or at least was widely believed to ex-
ist, in Europe at the end of the Middle Ages (traditionally defined as the
period up to about 1500) and the subsequent early-modern era (the 16th
through the 18th centuries). In this particular context, all the conditions
described above pertained, to a greater or lesser degree, but witchcraft
actually had a far more specific definition. Witches were generally, al-
though not necessarily, simple and uneducated people, mostly women.
And witches were certainly thought to perform harmful sorcery, most
commonly termed maleficium by secular and ecclesiastical authorities
writing in Latin. But the real crime of witchcraft lay in the intense dia-
bolical elements that authorities were convinced underlay these other
aspects of the phenomenon.
Witches were believed to perform their harmful sorcery through the
agency of demons whom they were able to command, often with only a
few simple words, signs, or gestures. In order to attain this power over
demons, authorities were convinced, witches offered worship to
demons, in violation of the most basic tenets of the Christian faith. Be-
yond even this, witches were thought to have forsaken their faith en-
tirely and to have surrendered themselves to the service of Satan. They
xxiv • INTRODUCTION

were believed to be members of widespread, satanic cults that met se-
cretly at night, in the presence of the devil or some other presiding de-
mon, to worship, celebrate, and perform a wide variety of horrible acts.
This was the image of the witches’ sabbath that first appeared in Europe
in the early 15th century and persisted for the rest of the period of the
witch-hunts. The more credulous and extreme among the authorities on
witchcraft often wrote of hundreds if not thousands of witches infesting
a given region, attending sabbaths, and acting in concert as members of
an organized sect. Thus, the evil that witches represented was not sim-
ple human malice. Rather, they were seen as battalions in the demonic
legions of Satan operating in secret to subvert and bring about the de-
struction of the Christian world. This concept of witches as comprising
a widespread, conspiratorial, and entirely malevolent force in the world
supported, indeed necessitated, the major efforts at witch-hunting that
were undertaken primarily in the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries.
PRECEDENTS: MAGIC AND RELIGION
IN THE ANCIENT AND MEDIEVAL WORLDS
The figure of the witch, defined not only as someone who performed se-
cretive and harmful sorcery, but also as someone who worked this sor-
cery through the agency of demons and who, forsaking the true faith,
worshiped demons and the devil, only developed toward the end of the
Middle Ages, appearing for the first time in the early 15th century. Al-
though such a conception of witchcraft was only possible in a Christian
society, still, in the most general terms, the two essential elements of
witchcraft as conceived during the period of the witch-hunts—that it in-
volved the performance of maleficent sorcery that caused real harm in
the world, and that it also entailed serious violations of religious beliefs
and practices—can be seen in the very earliest conceptions of magic to
appear in ancient Western civilizations. Like witchcraft itself, magic is
a difficult concept to define precisely, and distinctions between magical
and religious rituals are notoriously difficult to draw. Yet almost all hu-
man cultures, it would seem, have posited certain boundaries, and in-
deed a certain opposition, between these two concepts.
In European history, at least by the fifth century B.C.E., as the city-states
of Greece were entering into their golden age, religion, that is, the public
INTRODUCTION • xxv

and communal cults of the city-states, was being defined to some extent
in opposition to magic, that is, other systems for accessing supernatural
power that were either private, secretive, or anti-social. Although priests
engaged with the gods and other supernatural entities for the greater civic
good, and functioned to maintain stability and social order, magicians in
ancient Greece were private individuals, either seeking their own gain or
hiring themselves out as professionals to whom other people would turn
seeking individual magical services. The distinction was amplified by the
fact that foreign religious systems were often categorized as magic. In
fact, the Greek word mageia derived from the name for the Persian
priestly cast, called magoi in Greek. In other words, while the rituals and
practices of the Greek civic cults were “religion,” the foreign rites and
practices of the Persians were “magic.” In addition, the Greek word
goeteia was often used to describe the lower forms of magic, even further
removed from religious ritual, and this concept is perhaps as close as the
Greeks ever came to something like later European witchcraft.
The boundaries between all of these concepts and practices, however,
were extremely tenuous. They certainly appear so to modern historians,
and probably were for the ancients as well. For example, the two most
famous images of sorceresses to appear in Greek literature are Circe and
Medea. While both would later be considered witches and would con-
tribute to the development of the idea of witchcraft in medieval, Chris-
tian Europe, in ancient legend both were also religious figures. Circe
was a demigoddess, and Medea was either a demigoddess or a priestess
of a foreign cult.
In the ancient Hebrew tradition, too, magic was often defined in
terms of being harmful and anti-social but was also seen as a religious
error, and the priests of foreign religions were deemed to be magicians.
In the Book of Exodus in the Bible, listed among other regulations
placed upon the Israelites, is the command not to permit a sorcerer or
seer (Hebrew kashaph) to live, rendered famously in the 17th century
King James’ translation: “Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live” (Exodus
22:18). Such people were considered criminals due to the harmful
magic that they employed. In 1 Samuel 28:3, just prior to the famous
story of the Witch of Endor, King Saul is described as having driven out
all the sorcerers and diviners from his kingdom because such people
constituted an anti-social threat to the stability of his realm. The contrast
between magic and religion is more clearly developed in other pas-
xxvi • INTRODUCTION

sages, such as Exodus 7:8–12. Here Moses and Aaron confront Pharaoh
during the Israelites’ captivity in Egypt, and, in order to demonstrate the
power of the Hebrews’ god, Aaron casts down his staff and it becomes
a serpent. The priests of Pharaoh’s court are able to replicate this feat
with their own staffs by resorting to their “secret arts.” Aaron’s serpent
devours theirs, however, thus proving the superiority of divine power.
In 1 Kings 18:20–40, the prophet Elijah confronts the pagan priests of
Baal, who have been corrupting the people of Israel. He has them build
an altar and place sacrifices on it, and then pray to their god to send fire
from heaven to consume the sacrifices. Though they try for many hours,
no fire comes. Then Elijah builds an altar, and for good measure douses
his sacrifice with water. Still, at his prayer, a great fire descends from
heaven and consumes the sacrifice.
As Judaism developed into a fully monotheistic religion, that is, a sys-
tem of belief maintaining not just that Israel had only one god, while
other peoples might have many, but that the one god of Israel was in fact
the single supreme deity of the entire universe, the idea of magic as a de-
viation from proper religious practice became further developed. This
process culminated, however, only in the early Christian era. Although
Judaism was monotheistic, it never had a clearly defined concept of the
devil, that is, the principal opponent of the one god responsible for all
evil in the universe, such as developed in Christianity. For early Christ-
ian authorities the power of Satan and the legions of lesser devils he
commanded was set very directly against the power of God and the
church in the world, and much magical practice became fully demo-
nized. While holy men and women might perform miracles by calling on
divine power, all other such wonders were actually the work of demons.
The strict dichotomy was expressed in the New Testament account of
Christ’s chief apostle, Simon Peter, and the magician Simon Magus of
Samaria (Acts 8:9–24). Seeing that the wonders that the apostles could
perform were greater than those he could achieve, Simon Magus offered
Peter money in exchange for some of his power. Later apocryphal ac-
counts developed the rivalry between the miracle-working apostle and
the demonic magician even further. In one story, Simon Magus tried to
fly up to heaven, borne aloft by demons. At a word from Peter, however,
the power of the demons failed and Simon Magus crashed to earth.
Because, in Christian cosmology, all demons were evil spirits in the
service of the one great evil, Satan, who was the enemy of both God and
INTRODUCTION • xxvii

humankind, all magic, insofar as it entailed involvement with demonic
forces, was inherently evil. The anti-social and religiously deviant as-
pects of magical practice were fully merged. It was the great church fa-
ther Augustine of Hippo, who lived from 354 to 430 C.E., who gave this
new Christian conception of magic its full form. In his most important
work, The City of God, Augustine described the entire world in terms of
the struggle between divine and demonic forces. All evil arose from
demons, and all evil sorcery derived from demonic power. Moreover,
Augustine fully articulated the concept of the pact made between the de-
mon and the human magician who called upon it. Implacably hostile to
humanity, demons would only offer their services in exchange for wor-
ship. Thus for Christian authorities the real crime of demonic magic, as
ultimately for witchcraft, lay not in the harm that magic was supposedly
able to cause, but in the religious violation of demon-worship that such
magic was believed to entail.
With the full demonization of magic by Christian authorities
achieved at least by the fifth century C.E., one might think that the con-
cept of diabolic witchcraft would have appeared in late antiquity. This,
however, was not the case. Rather, the initial general effect of the Chris-
tian conception of demonic magic seems to have been actually to reduce
the culpability of human magicians. That is, Christian religious author-
ities recognized their real enemies as being the devil and his demons,
who lay behind any harmful sorcery that a human magician might work.
The magician was guilty only of having succumbed to temptation and
the deceits of these demons. The punishments that religious authorities,
mainly bishops, prescribed in cases involving sorcery were in fact gen-
erally more lenient than those laid out by secular Roman authorities in
the harsh late-imperial legal code.
On into the early Middle Ages, for many centuries, clerical authori-
ties remained relatively lenient in their treatment of sorcery. There are
several possible reasons for this. First, in the wake of the influx of pa-
gan Germanic tribes into the territories of the Western Roman Empire,
and the expansion of Roman Christianity into lands that had never lain
within the boundaries of the empire, clerical authorities probably fo-
cused more of their energies on spreading the religion, converting pa-
gans, and stamping out or subsuming within Christian belief the ele-
ments of paganism that persisted among the great majority of people in
the emerging medieval kingdoms of Europe. Also, in the wake of the
xxviii • INTRODUCTION

collapse of the Roman imperial system, for many centuries the church’s
own institutions and systems for exerting power and control were rela-
tively weak and certainly not highly centralized. Above all, perhaps,
clerical authorities did not, in general, seem to perceive demonic power,
and hence demonic sorcery, as a serious threat during this period. The
famous 10th century canon Episcopi (a document of church law named
after its first word in Latin, “Bishops”) warned bishops and their offi-
cials to take all steps necessary to eradicate the magical practices of sor-
tilegium and maleficium from the regions under their control. The canon
then went on to describe the widespread belief that there existed groups
of women who would ride through the night sky with the pagan goddess
Diana. Centuries later, this belief would contribute directly to the idea
of the night flight of witches to a sabbath. In the 10th century, however,
the canon declared that such ideas were merely delusions and decep-
tions of the devil, and that they had no basis in reality. Other documents
show that many clerical authorities felt only penance and correction
were needed to combat such beliefs, and that harsher punishments were
not in order.
This is not to say that clerical authorities in the early Middle Ages did
not accept the reality of demonic sorcery. But they were either unable
or unwilling (most likely both) to respond to such beliefs and practices
with widespread and highly organized campaigns of persecution. Inso-
far as harmful sorcery, maleficium, remained a crime to be prosecuted
and punished in the early Middle Ages, it was mainly secular authori-
ties who exercised jurisdiction over such cases. In Germanic legal
codes, as in the law codes of the ancient world, maleficium was defined
as a crime not primarily for its implications of religious deviance, but
for the real harm that such sorcery was believed to be able to achieve.
Such prosecutions, however, could not generate the necessary levels of
fear and panic to spark a real witch-hunt, as would occur in later cen-
turies. Although secular authorities in the early Middle Ages were cer-
tainly not unaware of the church’s position that most, if not all, sorcery
involved trafficking with demons, they do not seem to have stressed the
point, and so the idea of sorcerers being in league with the devil and part
of a larger conspiratorial assault on the entire Christian world never de-
veloped to the extent it later would. Also, sorcerers were not typically
accused of membership in satanic cults, and no concept like the later
witches’ sabbath ever developed in the early medieval period. Rather,
INTRODUCTION • xxix

individual accusations of sorcery tended to be settled without generat-
ing other accusations or anything like a widespread hunt.
An important aspect underlying the lack of any truly rampant perse-
cution of sorcerers in the early Middle Ages was the use of accusatorial
procedure in most European courts. This was a legal method whereby
an accuser, a private person who felt himself to be afflicted or aggrieved
in some way, not only brought the initial charge of a crime, but also bore
the responsibility of prosecuting the case and demonstrating the guilt of
the person accused. For a crime like sorcery, secretive by its very na-
ture, hard evidence was usually difficult if not impossible to find, and
witnesses were similarly scarce. In such cases, accusatorial procedure
relied on the judicial ordeal (or for certain elite groups trial by combat)
to determine guilt or innocence. Typically, the accused would be made
to grasp a heated iron. If, several days later, the wound was judged to
have healed sufficiently, the person was deemed innocent. Another
common ordeal was for the accused to be immersed in a pool of water.
If they did not immediately float to the surface (a sign that the pure wa-
ter had not rejected them as being evil), they were judged innocent. In
theory, such methods left the determination of guilt or innocence in the
hands of God. In practice, they were uncertain at best. Since the accuser
was responsible for proving his case, and was subject to legal penalties
if the person accused was judged innocent, entirely frivolous cases were
rare, and the sort of wild accusations that later typified the witch-hunts
were almost unthinkable.
Around the 12th century, important developments began to take
place that would lay the foundations for the emergence of witchcraft
and witch-hunting centuries later. Perhaps most directly, Roman law
was rediscovered across Europe, and the new legal method of inquisi-
torial procedure began to be used, first by ecclesiastical courts but then
by secular courts as well, instead of the older accusatorial procedure.
Under inquisitorial procedure, a private person could still bring a
charge of some crime, but now judges could also initiate inquests
themselves. In either case, after the initial accusation, the responsibil-
ity for prosecuting the case lay with the judges or magistrates. Rather
than relying on practices like the ordeal, judges employed more ra-
tional methods, such as examination of witnesses and interrogation of
the accused, as well as collection of any evidence that might be avail-
able. In cases of sorcery or witchcraft, however, where secrecy still
xxx • INTRODUCTION

prevailed, evidence and witnesses were rare. Thus, the confession of
the accused was virtually the only way to achieve a conviction. Since
it was assumed that guilty people would lie to protect themselves,
judges could employ torture. Under normal circumstances, use of tor-
ture should have remained limited and strictly regulated. In cases of
witchcraft, however, where the crime was believed to be so severe,
panic usually ran high, and the devil was often thought to exert his
power to prevent guilty witches from confessing, the use of torture was
often uncontrolled and excessive. In such cases, authorities could ex-
tract a lurid confession from virtually anyone accused.
Although the development of inquisitorial methods and use of torture
provided a legal procedure that made rampant witch-hunting possible,
legal changes alone were not enough to lead to the concept of witchcraft
as developed in the late-medieval and early-modern periods. Authorities
also had to be prepared to see a vast demonic conspiracy behind accu-
sations of simple maleficium. Here, too, important changes began to oc-
cur around the 12th century. As part of the so-called “Renaissance of the
12th Century,” the general revitalization of intellectual life in Europe,
classical Greek and Roman, Hebrew, and Arabic texts were rediscov-
ered and began to circulate more widely among educated, mainly cleri-
cal, elites. Among these texts were learned treatises on magical arts, in-
cluding astrology and alchemy, and also works discussing forms of
magic and divination performed through the invocation of spirits or
demons. These authoritative sources took the reality and power of de-
monic magic seriously, and so clerical writers in Europe followed suit.
By the middle of the 13th century, the great scholastic authority Thomas
Aquinas was devoting significant sections of his major theological
works to exploring and explaining the powers of demons. Aquinas’
writings were arguably the most important treatment of demonology in
the Western Christian tradition since Augustine in the fifth century. By
the early 1300s, the older, less intensely focused clerical attitude toward
demonic sorcery had given way to profound concern at the very highest
levels of the church. Pope John XXII, who reigned from 1316 until
1334, was deeply worried about the threat posed by practitioners of de-
monic sorcery. He ordered papal inquisitors to take actions against this
crime, and he passed an automatic sentence of excommunication
against anyone who engaged in such activities. By the later 14th cen-
tury, the theologian and inquisitor Nicolau Eymeric crafted a definitive
INTRODUCTION • xxxi

theological and legal argument that all demonic sorcery was heretical
and necessarily involved the worship of demons. The stage for the
emergence of diabolical witchcraft was set.
THE EMERGENCE OF WITCHCRAFT AND
THE AGE OF THE EUROPEAN WITCH-HUNTS
In the early 15th century, the fully developed idea of European witch-
craft—of witches as demonic sorcerers who worshiped the devil and
formed a vast, conspiratorial, diabolic cult dedicated to the destruction
of the Christian world—began to emerge. Especially in lands in and
around the western Alps, where some of the first true witch-hunts took
place, the number of trials involving charges of harmful and malefi-
cent sorcery increased significantly. In addition, even when the initial
accusations might still focus only on traditional aspects of maleficium,
judicial authorities increasingly began interjecting their own notions
of diabolism and demonic conspiracy into the trials. The decade of the
1430s seems to have been a critical turning point. Within only a few
years, a number of treatises and other learned accounts describing
witchcraft were written. While these accounts all differed from one
another in various ways, they all described witchcraft not just in terms
of demonic maleficium, but also as an organized sect and diabolical
conspiracy. Several of the authors of these treatises were associated in
one way or another with the great church Council of Basel, which met
from 1431 until 1449. This council seems to have served as an im-
portant center for the development and diffusion of the emerging
stereotype of witchcraft. Clerics from across Europe came to Basel to
attend the council, and might well have taken notions of witchcraft
back with them when they left.
The last three quarters of the 15th century, from approximately 1425
until 1500, mark the beginnings of the witch craze in Europe. The first
real witch trials occurred in this period and, although initially they were
fairly localized to the lands around the western Alps, they spread and
increased steadily in number. The century also saw the publication of
the first major treatises on witchcraft, beginning with the group of writ-
ings clustered around the 1430s, and culminating in the publication of
the most famous medieval witch-hunting manual, Malleus maleficarum,
xxxii • INTRODUCTION

or Hammer of Witches, written by the Dominican inquisitor Heinrich
Kramer (Institoris in Latin) and first printed in 1487. Although the
Malleus never served as the sole or definitive source on all aspects of
witchcraft and demonology, it was very popular, circulated widely, and
was reprinted many times. Certainly by the end of the century, the
stereotype of witches as demon-worshipers and servants of Satan, as
laid out in the Malleus and other similar works, was widely established
across Europe. Individual witch trials and even some small-scale hunts
(compared to what was to come) were occurring with increasing fre-
quency in many lands. The rise of the great European witch-hunts was
not a smooth trajectory, however, and shortly after 1500 there occurred
a long lull in the escalation of witch-hunting.
Beginning around the turn of the century, and for at least the first half
of the 1500s, the number of witch trials in many regions of Europe lev-
eled off, and in some areas even declined. In an apparent corollary de-
velopment, the production of new treatises on witchcraft dried up and
older treatises fell somewhat out of favor. For example, no new edition
of the Malleus maleficarum was printed from 1521 until 1576. Scholars
are uncertain why this lull should have occurred. Some cite the influ-
ence of Renaissance humanism. In this period, humanist ideas spread
from Italy to the rest of Europe. Humanist thinkers were often skeptical
of witchcraft, or at least of the existence of large cults of witches. In ad-
dition, insofar as the conception of diabolical witchcraft rested on prin-
cipals of medieval scholastic demonology, fear of witches may have
been reduced by the humanists’ many critiques of scholasticism in gen-
eral. It must be noted, however, that while humanism differed from
scholasticism as an intellectual method and in its approach to older, au-
thoritative texts, nothing in Renaissance humanist thought challenged
the basic Christian notion of the devil or the real existence of demons.
Thus nothing in Renaissance humanism was inherently opposed to be-
lief in witchcraft.
Historians have also argued that the first phase of the Protestant Re-
formation in the 16th century may have contributed to the lull in witch
trials. The relationship between the Reformation and the continued de-
velopment of the witch craze in Europe is complex. On the one hand,
Protestant theologians naturally tended to disregard many aspects of ear-
lier Catholic theology and were not inclined to regard medieval clerical
authors, such as those who wrote the earliest treatises on witchcraft, as
INTRODUCTION • xxxiii

being in any way authoritative. However, Protestant theologians cer-
tainly did not deny the existence or real power of demons or the devil,
and ultimately Protestant theories of witchcraft were virtually identical
to Catholic ones. If anything, Protestantism was even more concerned
about the power of the devil in this world than medieval Catholicism had
been. In the short term, however, it seems as if the initial shock of Mar-
tin Luther’s successful break with the Catholic Church and the other sub-
sequent breakaways that he helped to inspire, as well as the Catholic re-
sponse, occupied so much of the attention of religious and secular
authorities across Europe that little energy was left to expend on concern
over witches at least for a time.
In the long run, though, the Reformation may have contributed sig-
nificantly to the severity of later witch-hunts by helping to promote
the jurisdiction of secular courts over this crime. Witchcraft had al-
ways been a crime under both church law, as a form of idolatry and
demon-worship, and secular law, since maleficium was believed to
cause real harm, injury, or death. In fact, secular courts were often
more severe in their handling of cases of witchcraft than were many
ecclesiastical courts. In Protestant lands after the Reformation, eccle-
siastical courts were done away with, and secular authorities became
responsible for the enforcement of moral and religious codes. A simi-
lar process was already underway in many Catholic lands, but the Re-
formation doubtless accelerated this development. When witch-hunt-
ing began to rise again after the mid-1500s, secular courts were
responsible for the vast majority of witch-trials across Europe. The
only major exceptions were in Spain and Italy, where the Spanish In-
quisition and Roman Inquisition respectively oversaw many cases. It
is worth noting that witch-hunting was much less severe in these re-
gions, with fewer overall trials per capita and significantly fewer ex-
ecutions than in many northern lands.
In addition to possibly contributing to some of the legal develop-
ments that underlay the witch-hunts, the Reformation and Catholic
Counter-Reformation certainly caused matters of religious belief and
personal morality to be brought to the fore of the European conscious-
ness for most of the 16th and early 17th centuries. While confessional
conflict does not appear to have been directly responsible for many ac-
cusations of witchcraft, the heightened and sustained religious tensions
that pervaded much of European society in these years probably did
xxxiv • INTRODUCTION

contribute to concerns about religious deviance and moral corruption,
and ultimately to the fear of witches within many communities. The re-
ligious wars sparked by confessional conflict that engulfed Europe in
the 16th and 17th centuries also certainly contributed to harsh economic
conditions and social strife that then produced accusations of witch-
craft. The period from 1550 to 1650 is sometimes known as “Europe’s
iron century.” War, agrarian failures, popular revolts, inflation, and eco-
nomic and social dislocations on a wide scale wracked the continent. It
is certainly no coincidence that the idea of witchcraft and the fear of
witches that emerged first in the 15th century found new life in the late
16th and early 17th centuries, and that this was the period of the most
intense witch-hunting in many regions of Europe.
After the lull in the early 1500s, around in the middle of that century
the number of witch trials across the continent began to rise again, and
the period from approximately 1575 to 1675 marked the height of the
European witch-hunts. Not only did the number of trials rise to the high-
est levels ever in most regions of the continent, but almost all of the
worst panics and largest hunts occurred during this period. In addition,
the production of treatises on witchcraft and witch-hunting resumed.
The Malleus maleficarum was reprinted again in 1576 and several times
thereafter, and even more popular and influential new treatises appeared
by Jean Bodin in 1580, Nicholas Rémy in 1595, Martin Del Rio in
1599, and Francesco Maria Guazzo in 1608. By the middle of the 17th
century, however, witch-hunting was again declining across much of
Europe. Scotland and Scandinavia experienced their most severe out-
breaks of witch-hunting in the 1660s and early 1670s respectively, and
the persecution of witches in the British colonies in New England
crested with the trials at Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692. Elsewhere in
Western and Central Europe, however, the number of witch trials fell
off rapidly, and many states began to officially end witch-hunting. In
France, for example, King Louis XIV effectively ended witch trials in
1682, and in England Parliament repealed the witchcraft act in 1736. In
Eastern Europe, concern over witchcraft and witch-hunting developed
late, and in regions of Poland, Hungary, and Russia, the worst trials oc-
curred in the 18th century. This regional anomaly aside, however, the
period from 1675 until 1750 can generally be seen as one of steady de-
cline in witch-hunting. By the end of the 18th century, the legal perse-
cution of supposed witches had ended across Europe.
INTRODUCTION • xxxv

GENERAL NATURE OF THE WITCH-HUNTS
During the main period of witch-hunting in the 16th and 17th centuries,
fear of witches manifested itself in many forms. Nevertheless, certain
generalizations about the pattern of witch-hunting can be made. A trial
would most often begin with an accusation of maleficium. Such charges
usually arose as a result of some sort of otherwise unexplainable mis-
fortune—the sudden death of a child, cows no longer giving milk, a
crop failure, or other similar events. As for the direction the charges
took, that is, who was accused of being a witch, this usually reflected
long-standing interpersonal animosities of the sort that could be quite
common in small, tightly knit communities. People in pre-modern Eu-
rope were accustomed to sudden and unexplained calamities and did not
automatically assume that witchcraft lay behind all such events. How-
ever, when established animosity existed, often having developed over
years, then people might indeed become ready to explain their misfor-
tune as being the result of malevolent witchcraft directed against them
by certain of their neighbors or often enough even by family members.
Maleficium might be a particularly attractive explanation for a misfor-
tune that occurred soon after some quarrel or other conflict, especially
if, in the course of the argument, the other party had uttered a curse or
made some sort of general threat.
In theory, almost anyone could be a witch. In practice, however, those
most likely to be accused of witchcraft were people who lived on the mar-
gins of their communities. The poor, especially those who begged from the
rest of the community and thereby continually strained the social bonds
between themselves and the community, the elderly, especially elderly
women who had neither husbands nor children to care for them, or anyone
who acted strangely or in an anti-social manner were all typical targets of
witchcraft accusations. For a variety of social and cultural reasons, women
in general were especially vulnerable to charges of witchcraft, and across
Europe an average of 75 percent of those executed for this crime were fe-
male. In some regions, as high as 90 percent of the victims of witch trials
were women, although in some other regions, men were in the majority.
As many scholars have noted, witchcraft was a gender-related crime but
by no means a gender-specific one.
Although most everyone in medieval and early-modern Europe was
familiar with religious teachings about the power of demons and the as-
xxxvi • INTRODUCTION

sociation of witches with the devil, the majority of witch trials began
with charges only of maleficium, and elements of diabolism did not usu-
ally figure prominently in the initial accusations. Most people, it would
seem, were concerned about the potential harm witches could do to
them and not about any larger, diabolical conspiracy existing in their
midst. Once accusations were brought into the courts, however, author-
ities would be sure to inject charges of diabolism into cases in which
these were not already present, and clearly the general populace was not
averse to this occurrence and fully accepted that witches were indeed in
league with Satan.
Once a trial began, it could proceed in several ways. The simplest
possibility, and probably what happened in a large number of cases, was
that an acquittal or conviction would be attained and the process would
end there, with just the single, isolated trial. Also likely, however, was
that a single trial might lead to a larger hunt. Other people might begin
coming forward with accusations of witchcraft, the magistrates con-
ducting the trial might broaden the scope on their own, or the accused
witch might name accomplices, either voluntarily or under torture.
Thus, even a single accusation could lead to numerous trials. In most
cases, after several trials, and in all likelihood several convictions and
executions, this sort of medium-level hunt would end of its own accord.
Judges would become satisfied that they had found all the witches pres-
ent in a community and no further accusations would be made. In some
cases, however, a hunt could spiral out of control if, for whatever rea-
son, the initial few trials created a high enough level of panic in the
community, or concern among the prosecuting officials was raised to a
sufficient level. In these cases, accusations would not dry up, and zeal-
ous magistrates might press their investigations, convinced that more
witches would be uncovered. Often, the use of torture became more in-
tense, and thus confessions came more quickly and became more ex-
treme. A fair sign that a hunt was getting out of control was that the typ-
ical stereotype of the witch began to break down and accusations came
to fall increasingly on men and on wealthier and more socially promi-
nent people.
Not many hunts became widely out of control, but when they did, they
could claim scores or even hundreds of victims and threaten to destroy
entire communities. Because the uncontrolled use of torture could virtu-
ally guarantee confession and conviction in almost all cases, and because
INTRODUCTION • xxxvii

even a single witch might accuse dozens more, there was no natural
break to the process. Such large-scale hunts typically ended only when
the authorities involved reached a crisis of confidence. That is, they had
to become convinced that they were extracting mostly false confessions
and therefore were attaining mostly false convictions. Only then would
they either stop the trials or at least become more cautious in their ac-
ceptance of evidence and use of torture. In the face of more acquittals
than convictions, the level of panic that could grip a community usually
then subsided, and the hunt came to an end.
REGIONAL VARIATIONS
Any discussion of the general pattern of witch-hunts for all of Europe is
complicated by the degree of regional variance in levels of concern and
responses to this crime in the 16th and 17th centuries. Although the ba-
sic idea of witchcraft was accepted in almost all European lands, includ-
ing colonial possessions overseas, nevertheless there were important dif-
ferences in the acceptance of certain aspects of the witch-stereotype, and
certainly in the patterns of prosecution that fear of witches created. Cen-
tral Europe was without a doubt the heartland of the witch-hunts. The
lands of the German Empire and the Swiss Confederation experienced
the greatest overall numbers of witch trials and also the most severe pan-
ics and largest hunts. Yet even within this region, because of the politi-
cal fragmentation of the Empire and the independence of the numerous
Swiss cantons, significant geographical variations in the level of witch-
hunting were evident. In general, Switzerland and the southern and west-
ern regions of the German Empire, where political fragmentation was
highest and there existed numerous small and essentially autonomous
states and legal jurisdictions, saw the most severe hunts. In the northern
and eastern parts of the German Empire, including the large southeast-
ern region of Bavaria, where political entities were larger, witch-hunting
was significantly less severe.
Similarly in France, at the time the largest unified state in Europe in
terms of population, many thousands of witch trials were conducted in
the 16th and 17th centuries, but accusations and especially executions
for the crime of witchcraft, measured per capita, were far lower than in
the smaller states within the German Empire. In France, too, there were
xxxviii • INTRODUCTION

major variations in the intensity of witch trials from region to region.
Overall, far more witch-hunting took place on the fringes of the country
than in the central regions, or more accurately, than in those regions that
were more firmly and fully under the centralized control of the royal
government in Paris. Across Europe, this pattern would hold. In those re-
gions that had large, centralized legal bureaucracies, witch trials were
less frequent and large-scale hunts, involving dozens or even hundreds
of trials, were extremely rare. Larger-scale bureaucracies tended to be
more careful in their conduct of trials and to focus more on matters of le-
gal procedure, such as proper application of the restrictions on the use of
torture. This in turn significantly reduced, although by no means elimi-
nated, convictions for witchcraft and worked to prevent individual accu-
sations from sparking major hunts. In regions of greater local legal au-
tonomy, on the other hand, magistrates were often more careless in their
adherence to proper legal procedures and were more likely to be swept
along by the level of panic that could be generated in a community when
one or more serious accusations of witchcraft were made.
In the British Isles, England had some episodes of severe persecution
of witches, but overall the level of witch-hunting was lower than on the
continent. For various reasons, continental notions of diabolism—the
idea of a conspiratorial cult of witches gathering at nocturnal sabbaths
and worshiping the devil—never gained as much acceptance in England
as elsewhere in Western and Central Europe, and many witch trials fo-
cused only on the practice of maleficium. In addition, England had
never fully adopted inquisitorial procedure, and most especially torture
was extremely limited under English law. These factors worked to keep
the intensity of fear over witchcraft and the level of witch-hunting
down. Scotland, by comparison, where notions of diabolism gained a
wider credence and where the central government was less able to en-
force restrictions on the use of torture, experienced more major witch-
hunts, although the overall intensity was still not as severe as in Central
European lands. Also the British colonies in New England experienced
more severe witch-hunting (again per capita) than in the mother coun-
try. Here, concern over witchcraft was deeply enmeshed with broader
Puritan concerns over morality, temptation, and the power of the devil.
In Northern and Southern Europe—Scandinavia and Mediterranean
lands—the persecution of witches was relatively light, although some
large-scale hunts certainly did occur. In Spain and Italy, perhaps somewhat
INTRODUCTION • xxxix

ironically, this reduced intensity was primarily a result of the existence of
the Spanish and Roman Inquisitions in those lands. Although ecclesiasti-
cal inquisitors had been among the first to develop the notion of diabolical
witchcraft, in the 16th and 17th centuries the Spanish and Roman Inquisi-
tions were large, centralized, bureaucratic organizations. As such, they ex-
erted the same restraint on witch trials as other centralized legal bureau-
cracies elsewhere. In the lands of Eastern Europe, witch-hunting came late
and also endured later than in western lands, with the most severe hunts in
many regions only coming in the early 18th century. Here, too, however,
there were significant regional differences. The only eastern state to expe-
rience major hunts on the scale of some of those in German lands was
Poland. Hungary had fewer witch trials, although still a significant num-
ber. Further east, in Russian lands, witch-hunting was very late and very
limited. Among other factors, the Eastern Orthodox Church never operated
under the same model of intense diabolism as was present in both Catholic
and Protestant lands to the west.
DECLINE OF WITCH-HUNTING
AND SURVIVAL OF WITCH-BELIEFS
As early as the mid-17th century in some lands, and certainly by the
18th century across much of Europe (excluding the east), large-scale
witch-hunting was in decline. This did not mean, however, that belief in
the reality of witchcraft or the potential threat posed by witches was de-
clining. Rather, the decline of witch-hunting preceded any lessening in
actual belief in witchcraft and was caused primarily, it would seem, by
a more limited sort of purely legal skepticism. In a sense, the witch-
hunts undermined themselves by their own severity, and more and more
authorities became concerned with the abuses of legal procedure, pri-
marily the rampant use of torture, that took place in many courts, and
the obviously large number of false convictions that were being ex-
tracted. While not denying the power of the devil or the possible exis-
tence of real witches, authorities increasingly became convinced that
witchcraft did not exist as a widespread threat. With the application of
more careful legal procedures, more people accused of witchcraft were
shown to be innocent, and the level of fear and panic that had fueled the
largest hunts was dissipated. Gradually, this legal skepticism was sup-
xl • INTRODUCTION

plemented by a level of real skepticism about the very possibility of
witchcraft. Nevertheless, belief in the real existence of at least some
witches remained widespread among most of the European population,
if not among the ruling elites, well into the 19th century.
Although belief in the reality of witchcraft remained widespread at
many levels of European society, the legal prosecution of witches and
conduct of witch trials required cooperation between populations
and ruling elites, and in the course of the 1700s government after gov-
ernment put an end to witch trials. The last legal executions for witch-
craft took place toward the end of this century. The end of officially
sanctioned witch-hunting certainly had an effect on the nature of com-
monly held witch-beliefs and popular reaction to suspected cases of
witchcraft. Greater historical shifts would be needed, however, to end
the widespread belief in harmful sorcery and the existence of witches.
Belief in witchcraft in the most general sense—that of harmful sor-
cery or maleficium—seems almost a universal aspect of pre-modern hu-
man societies and functions to meet a variety of social needs. In almost
all cultures in which it appears, the concept of witchcraft, however
specifically defined, serves mainly as an explanation for unexpected
misfortune or natural calamities, and as an outlet to express social con-
flict within tightly knit communities existing in a largely agrarian con-
text. Such cultures support the belief in harmful sorcery and witchcraft
in many ways, and ultimately it is the very nature of these cultures that
must change in order to undermine these ideas. In Europe, the wide-
spread belief in the existence of witches does not appear to have de-
clined significantly until the profound demographic, economic, politi-
cal, legal, and social changes brought about as a result of the industrial
revolution permeated most regions of the continent and most levels of
European society, and this process was not complete until the 19th and
in some areas even well into the 20th century.
Even as this process was underway, however, ideas of magic and oc-
cultism were taking new forms. Already in the 18th century, European
elites began to form numerous secret societies, the most well known of
which were the Masonic orders. Certain elements within these elite
groups, such as the Rosicrucians or Illuminati, were drawn to magic and
occult practices. By the end of the 19th century, in 1888, the Hermetic
Order of the Golden Dawn was founded in England as a socially elite,
secret society explicitly devoted to the study and practice of magic and
INTRODUCTION • xli

occultism. At the same time, spiritualism was becoming extremely pop-
ular with the urban middle classes of Europe, and all manner of seers
and mediums, such as the famous and outrageous Madame Blavatsky,
were capturing the public imagination with their claims of supernatural
powers and ability to commune with the dead and foretell the future.
Even today, the continued prominence of astrology, tarot reading, and
other forms of divination—to say nothing of the actual practice of ritual
magic by some groups—speaks to the continued willingness of many
people in modern, industrialized, and technologically sophisticated so-
ciety to believe in the existence of magical or occult forces.
WITCHCRAFT IN OTHER WORLD CULTURES
In Europe, witchcraft developed along a particular historical trajectory,
deeply influenced by Christian concepts of evil, the devil, and de-
monology, but shaped also by unique European social and legal devel-
opments. For these reasons, the great witch-hunts that occurred in Eu-
rope from the 15th to the 18th centuries have never been matched
elsewhere in the world. Nevertheless, witchcraft in a more general sense,
understood to mean simply the practice of harmful forms of sorcery by
malevolent individuals, can be said to have existed in virtually every hu-
man culture throughout history. As these figures have almost universally
inspired fear and anxiety, so attempts at suppression of witchcraft and
the eradication of witches have also occurred throughout human history,
although never on the scale of the witch-hunts of Europe.
Witchcraft has been a concern, it seems, from the very dawn of hu-
mankind. In ancient Mesopotamia, people believed that the world was
full of hostile supernatural forces and demons bent on the destruction of
human civilization. Both magical and religious rituals were widely em-
ployed to combat these hostile forces, which appear to have threatened
to undermine human society in much the way that witchcraft was later
conceived in Christian Europe. Authorities were concerned to expose
and punish any witches—individuals who aided or directed these de-
monic or hostile forces—and to devise means of protection from this
threat. The Babylonian magical ritual maqlu, for example, meaning
“burning” and referring to the incineration of certain magical effigies,
was designed to counter witchcraft. The ancient Greek and Roman re-
xlii • INTRODUCTION

sponses to such supernatural threats have already been described briefly
above, and they provided at least one basis for later European concep-
tions of and reactions to witchcraft.
Throughout the ancient Near-East and into South- and East-Asia, be-
lief in harmful magic and malevolent, witch-like figures is known to
have existed. As late as the 18th century, a major panic over the sup-
posed threat of harmful sorcery and the perceived existence of a con-
spiracy of evil sorcerers occurred in China. Beliefs akin to witchcraft
have also been widespread in Africa and civilizations in the Americas.
Since, especially in Africa, these beliefs have persisted openly into the
modern era, they have been much studied by European anthropologists
and in turn by historians seeking to make comparisons to historical
witchcraft and witch-beliefs in Europe. Many similarities are evident. In
most African societies, for example, women are far more commonly as-
sociated with witchcraft than are men. In addition, witches are often
perceived to be not merely individual practitioners of harmful magic,
but somehow organized and threatening to all of human society. In at-
tempting to distinguish “witchcraft” from mere “sorcery,” anthropolo-
gists have often categorized as sorcery those beliefs that involve hu-
mans learning to manipulate supernatural forcers in certain ways.
Witchcraft, by contrast, is defined as operating (or being believed to op-
erate) through some innate power found in the witch herself. Following
this distinction, any person might learn to perform acts of sorcery, but
only those born with innate power can be witches, and this power marks
them as being inherently evil beings. This distinction is useful for many
African and other world cultures, but would not seem to apply to Eu-
rope, where, historically, witches were believed to acquire their evil
powers from the devil or from demons, not from any internal ability that
they naturally possessed. European witches were, however, certainly of-
ten seen as inherently evil beings, because they had supposedly aban-
doned the true Christian faith and surrendered their souls to the devil.
Many traditional African magical beliefs were brought to the Ameri-
cas during the period of the slave trade. In the Caribbean and elsewhere,
these beliefs merged with the Christian beliefs of the slaves’ colonial
masters, and this resulted in the emergence of new, syncretistic systems.
Voodoo (or, as more of its practitioners prefer, Vodoun) and Santería are
the most commonly known examples of new systems of belief created
out of the merger of traditional African and European concepts of magic
INTRODUCTION • xliii

and religion. Both Vodoun and Santería are properly identified as reli-
gions practiced by many people in the Caribbean, in Latin America, and
to some extent in major centers of Hispanic population in North Amer-
ica. Both include certain practices that could be seen as more magical
than religious, however, particularly those practices focusing on pro-
viding protection from harmful sorcery, and both include beliefs in
malevolent figures similar in many ways to witches. Clearly, notions of
witchcraft have not been limited to European societies, and they are not
confined solely to the pre-modern period of world history.
HISTORICAL STUDY AND MODERN WITCHCRAFT
In the course of the 19th century, European scholars first began to ad-
dress the question of historical witchcraft and the witch-hunts of the late-
medieval and early-modern periods in a serious way (although many of
their conclusions were based more on their own ideological convictions
than on the historical evidence). As early as 1828, the German scholar
Karl-Ernst Jarcke advanced the theory that those persecuted for witch-
craft had in fact been practicing an ancient, pagan religion. His purpose
was in some way to justify, or at least to rationalize, the witch-hunts as
a serious effort on the part of ecclesiastical and secular authorities to en-
force a real Christianization on the populace. In 1862, the French histo-
rian Jules Michelet published his study, La sorcière, making a similar ar-
gument, but to opposite effect. Michelet presented the supposed religion
of witchcraft as a means of positive popular resistance against the op-
pressive authority of the church in the Middle Ages. The witch-hunts
were for him not a rational and necessary step in the progress of Euro-
pean history, but an instance of terrible persecution and repression by
zealous and unenlightened religious authorities.
Also in the 19th century, the Romantic Movement had spurred a ma-
jor interest in folk-culture among European elites. Professional and am-
ateur folklorists began cataloging and studying popular or traditional
beliefs and practices, which of course at this time still included a belief
in maleficium and other elements of witchcraft. While not typically
credulous of these beliefs themselves, many 19th-century folklorists
were clearly fascinated by and drawn to such subject matter. Academic
anthropologists as well began delving into the structures, and possible
xliv • INTRODUCTION

realities, of ancient myths. In his Teutonic Mythology, published in
1844, Jacob Grimm argued that the historical stereotype of witchcraft
included many elements drawn from traditional Germanic folk culture
and the remnants of pre-Christian religious beliefs. In 1890, the first
edition of James Frazier’s The Golden Bough appeared, in which he ex-
plored the apparent unities between the mythologies of many ancient
cultures, centered on the supposed existence of a single ancient fertility
goddess and her consort who enacted a ritual of life, death, and rebirth
that gave form to the seasonal cycle of the year. By the early 20th cen-
tury, Frazier’s ideas, and a focus on mythology rather than actual an-
cient cultures, were falling out of favor with many professional anthro-
pologists, but were becoming highly popularized, and The Golden
Bough sold extremely well to a general readership.
Frazier’s notions of a single basic fertility myth underlying the core
mythologies of many ancient cultures was profoundly influential on
the emergence of modern witchcraft in the 20th century through the
person of Margaret Murray. Murray was a British Egyptologist and
amateur anthropologist who became interested in the historical phe-
nomenon of witchcraft in medieval and early-modern Europe. In look-
ing through the sources on witchcraft, she came to believe that she saw
the vestiges of just the sort of ancient religion that Frazier had postu-
lated. Clerical authors had, in her view, twisted the actual practices of
this religion into diabolical rituals, but in the supposed orgies and de-
praved feasting of a witches’ sabbath, Murray saw pagan fertility ritu-
als. These festivals were presided over by an ancient, horned fertility
god, such as the Greco-Roman Pan or Celtic Cernunnos, whom cleri-
cal authors had transformed into the Christian devil. In 1921, Murray
published her first book on witchcraft, The Witch-Cult in Western Eu-
rope, in which she advanced her basic argument that historical witch-
craft had in fact been a remnant of an ancient fertility religion. In The
God of the Witches, published in 1933, she presented her theories about
the nature of the witches’ sabbath and the corruption of the pagan
horned god into the Christian devil by clerical authorities. By the time
of 1954’s The Divine King of England, Murray was maintaining that
every English king from the time of William the Conqueror in the 11th
century to James I in the 17th had been members of the secret religion
of witchcraft, which survived as a powerful but clandestine force
throughout this period.
INTRODUCTION • xlv

From the start, many scholars were as skeptical of Murray’s theories
as they were intrigued. As her claims became more outlandish, skepti-
cism increased. Since the 1950s, all of her theories and arguments have
been largely disproved. Although it now seems clear that certain ele-
ments of the stereotype of witchcraft, especially night flight and the
transformation of witches into animals, were indeed rooted to some ex-
tent in the remnants of ancient beliefs and folk-practices that were wide-
spread across Europe, there is no evidence that historical witchcraft was
in any way directly connected to pre-Christian pagan religions. Instead,
historical European witchcraft was a thoroughly Christian construct, de-
rived primarily from biblical, patristic, and medieval scholastic notions
of magic and demonology. Certainly, the widespread witch-hunts of the
16th and 17th centuries were in no way an attempt by Christian author-
ities to destroy a surviving archaic pagan religion that continued to ex-
ist in their midst.
Nevertheless, Murray’s notions provided a basis for the initial de-
velopment of modern witchcraft, often termed Wicca, in Europe in the
second half of the 20th century. The man most responsible for this de-
velopment was Gerald Gardner, an English civil servant and amateur
student of world religions who spent much of his life in the Far East
before retiring to England. Once back in his native country, he
claimed to have discovered and been inducted into a coven of tradi-
tional, hereditary witches who practiced an ancient religion and who
could trace their lineage back to the Middle Ages. In 1954, he pub-
lished Witchcraft Today, in which he claimed to be introducing the
genuinely ancient beliefs and practices of this coven to the world. In
fact, the book was largely a mixture of the theories of Margaret Mur-
ray (with whom Gardner had collaborated as a member of the British
Folklore Society in the late 1930s and who wrote an approving pref-
ace to Witchcraft Today), aspects of world religions, and ritual magic
and occultism (Gardner had been made an honorary member of the
Ordo Templi Orientis, an elite magical society, by the famed occultist
Aleister Crowley, who in turn had years earlier been a member of the
Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn). Nevertheless, Gardner’s book
served as the primary genesis of the modern movement of witchcraft,
and his followers and those inspired by him were convinced that they
were merely continuing the practice of an ancient, pre-Christian form
of religion.
xlvi • INTRODUCTION

In many ways a reaction to the apparent bankruptcy many people
saw in the traditional Western religions in the wake of the horrors of
the first half of the 20th century, Wicca, along with other varieties
of neo-paganism, flourished in the counter-culture atmosphere of the
1960s and 1970s. The movement originated by Gardner was never
strongly unified or cohesive, and many different traditions of modern
witchcraft quickly emerged. By 1979, the movement as a whole came
of age with the publication of two important works, both by American
authors. Starhawk, a witch and political activist, wrote The Spiral
Dance, which unified essentially Gardnerian forms of Wiccan belief
and practice with a lyrical internal spirituality that embraced personal
liberty, environmentalism and respect for nature, and especially femi-
nism and female spiritual empowerment. The book largely superseded
Gardner’s Witchcraft Today to become the essential expression of mod-
ern witchcraft. In the same year, the journalist and practicing witch
Margot Adler wrote Drawing Down the Moon, the first serious study
of the origins and development of the Wiccan movement. Adler recog-
nized that, especially in light of near-universal scholarly dismissal of
the theories of Margaret Murray and serious suspicions about Gerald
Gardner’s reliability, the claim that modern Wicca was a direct contin-
uation of an actual ancient religion that had survived underground for
over a millennium could not be seriously maintained. However, the
supposed pseudo-history of the Wiccan faith could be viewed as a
foundation myth without in any way undermining the value of current
Wiccan beliefs and practices.
Most modern witches now fully accept that, rather than continuing an
ancient form of pre-Christian religion, they are practitioners of a new
religion creatively based on ancient forms and principals. An aspect of
this religion continues to be the working of spells and ritual magic,
which modern Wiccans believe have real power. In this sense, they are,
in fact, continuing in the true historical tradition of witchcraft, which
has always placed this phenomenon, in various ways, at the juncture
where religious belief meets magical practice.
INTRODUCTION • xlvii


The Dictionary
1
– A –
ABSALON, ANNA PEDERSDOTTER (?–1590). The victim of per-
haps the single most famous witchcraft accusation made in Scandi-
navia, Anna was the wife of the Lutheran minister and famous
scholar Absalon Pedersen Beyer. The charges against her arose
mainly out of popular opposition to the attempts by Absalon and
other Protestant clergy to remove holy images from the churches of
Bergen, Sweden, in accordance with Lutheran teachings. Because the
clergymen themselves were too highly placed for their efforts to be
resisted directly, opposition focused on Anna. She was first acquitted
of charges in 1575, but more accusations arose years later. She was
tried again and executed in 1590. Her trial later became the basis for
a play and then the film by Carl Theodore Dreyer, Day of Wrath.
ACCUSATORIAL PROCEDURE. This refers to the basic system of
criminal procedure that was used in most courts of law, mainly secu-
lar but also to some degree ecclesiastical, in medieval Europe prior to
the 13th century. It was then gradually replaced in most lands, first in
ecclesiastical courts but eventually in secular courts as well, by in-
quisitorial procedure. Although the earlier accusatorial procedure
by no means precluded prosecutions for crimes of magic or sorcery,
it was difficult to ensure a conviction for such crimes under this sys-
tem. By contrast, inquisitorial procedure made prosecuting such
crimes significantly easier, and so provided a necessary condition for
the emergence of witchcraft and witch-hunting in the late-medieval
and early-modern periods.
Under accusatorial procedure, all legal actions had to be initiated by
accusations coming from private persons who felt themselves afflicted

or injured in some way. Accusers, however, did more than just initiate
trials. They also acted as prosecutors and were responsible for prov-
ing the guilt of the person or persons whom they had accused. If the
accused did not admit their guilt, and if no positive proof could be pro-
vided, the matter was placed in the hands of God. Most often, the ac-
cused would be made to undergo an ordeal. They might be dunked in
water, or made to put their hand in boiling water, or forced to hold hot
irons. If they were able to stay immersed in the water for a sufficient
period of time in the first case, or if their wounds healed reasonably
well in the second or third, they were judged to be innocent. Nobles,
instead of undergoing an ordeal, might have access to trial by combat,
in which, in theory, God would ensure that the innocent won and the
guilty lost. Importantly, if by whatever mechanism the accused would
be judged innocent, the accuser then fell under the penalty of law for
bringing a false accusation.
For crimes such as sorcery or, later, witchcraft, secretive by their
very nature, positive proof was very difficult to obtain. Thus almost
all cases would have been decided by ordeal. Since the accuser could
be severely punished in cases of wrongful accusation, fear of divine
judgment would have prevented many specious accusations. More-
over, even when accusers honestly suspected that sorcery was being
used against them, given the extremely secretive and indirect nature
of the crime, complete certainty was probably rare. Thus the threat of
legal repercussions for false accusations kept the number of trials for
sorcery low. The inquisitorial system, on the other hand, although in
many ways more rational, facilitated trials for sorcery and later
witchcraft by making prosecution the responsibility of the court, not
the individual accusers.
ADLER, MARGOT (1946– ). An American journalist, author, and
practicing pagan, Adler wrote the first important study of the emer-
gence of neo-paganism and modern witchcraft, or Wicca, in Amer-
ica. Her book Drawing Down the Moon, published in 1979, the same
year as Starhawk’s The Spiral Dance, became an important text for
modern witchcraft. From a historical perspective, in particular, it rec-
ognized that much, if not all, of modern witchcraft’s connection to
the historical witchcraft of the medieval and early-modern periods
was fictitious.
2 • ADLER, MARGOT (1946– )

Raised in New York City in a non-religious household, Adler stud-
ied at the University of California at Berkeley and at Columbia Uni-
versity’s School of Journalism. She began a career in broadcast jour-
nalism and was also active in political, environmental, and feminist
causes. She was first introduced to modern neo-paganism in the early
1970s while in England investigating the history of the druids. Re-
turning to New York, she entered a coven and began practicing mod-
ern witchcraft as established by Gerald Gardner. Approached to
write a book about modern witchcraft, she began researching the ori-
gins and development of the movement.
Adler soon realized that many of the claims made by Gardner, that
modern witchcraft was directly linked to the witches of the medieval
and early-modern period, and that witchcraft represented a genuine
preservation of an even more ancient, pre-Christian religion, were
false. Nevertheless, she recognized that most religious beliefs ulti-
mately rested on pseudo-history in which real historical fact and
myth were merged to meet the needs of belief. Modern Wiccan and
neo-pagan groups could recognize the largely mythical nature of this
pseudo-history, she argued, and still retain the force and value of their
beliefs. These ideas, among others, were set out in Drawing Down
the Moon.
AFRICAN WITCHCRAFT. Historically, the belief in various forms
of harmful magic or sorcery, often termed witchcraft by Western
observers, has been widespread across sub-Saharan Africa. More-
over, these beliefs have remained prevalent and socially respectable
in many African societies, while in Europe they have declined sig-
nificantly since the period of the major witch-hunts ending in the
18th century. Thus in the 20th century, as anthropologists began to
study these African beliefs, scholars of European witchcraft sought
to apply the information gathered from African case studies for com-
parative purposes to their own work on historical witchcraft in me-
dieval and early-modern Europe. Such comparisons have limitations,
the most obvious being that European witchcraft was grounded so
completely in specific aspects of Christian theology and de-
monology, and especially the Christian concept of the devil, while
African witchcraft operates in an entirely different religious and cul-
tural context. Nevertheless, some interesting parallels emerged.
AFRICAN WITCHCRAFT • 3

Generalizations about African witchcraft are made difficult because
beliefs and practices vary between different African societies. Perhaps
the most famous study was made in the early 20th century by the
British anthropologist E. E. Evans-Pritchard. Focusing on the Azande
of southern Sudan, he discovered three distinct categories of magic
among these people. Good magic was used by witch doctors, diviners,
and oracles to predict the future and to protect against harmful magic.
Evil sorcery was used to harm other people. This form of magic often
involved using material objects in the performance of spells and typi-
cally targeted individuals. A third category, which Evans-Pritchard la-
beled witchcraft, entailed an internal, hereditary power passed down
from fathers to sons and, more often, from mothers to daughters. It
manifested, supposedly, in the witch’s stomach as a small black
swelling. Witches were to some extent organized and gathered at secret
meetings to practice their magic. They could attack individual people,
but were also responsible for all manner of hardships and afflictions
suffered by the entire community, including crop failures, lack of
game, infertility, and even poor government. Other African societies
make similar distinctions. For example, the Bechuana of Botswana dis-
tinguish between “day sorcerers” and “night witches.” Day sorcerers
might work magic either to help or harm people, but usually do so on
an individual basis and for specific reasons, often for pay. Night
witches are more inherently malevolent. They are typically pictured as
old women who seek to harm the entire community.
The widespread belief in Africa of the existence of certain cate-
gories of people who seek to harm society as a whole is reminiscent
of the historical European concept of witchcraft as a diabolical con-
spiracy directed against the entire Christian world. Across Africa,
these people are frequently seen as female, they gather at secret as-
semblies to plan and work their evil magic, and they are often de-
scribed as flying at night to these gatherings. All of these factors pres-
ent more parallels between European and African witchcraft. The
conclusion drawn by many scholars is that there are certain fears and
concerns common to almost all pre-modern, largely agrarian soci-
eties, and particularly to societies composed of small, tightly knit
communities. Ideas of witchcraft, in a very general sense, seem to be
a common response to and explanation for certain kinds of hardship
and misfortune in such societies. The notions of secret, nocturnal
4 • AFRICAN WITCHCRAFT

gatherings and night flight seem to indicate that basic notions of
shamanism and encounters with spiritual forces, good or bad, are a
common feature of many human societies and a basis for many sys-
tems of religious and magical beliefs.
While no true witch-hunts ever developed in any region of Africa
on the scale that was seen in Europe during the early-modern period,
witchcraft has been, and to some extent continues to be, greatly
feared in many African societies, and a variety of steps can be taken
to protect a community from witchcraft or to punish suspected
witches. Many types of counter-magic have developed, and in some
areas such as Zambia groups of professional witch-finders emerged.
These were people, usually men, who were employed to discover the
presence of witches in a community and to eliminate them. In addi-
tion, popular lynching of witches could occur, and is still known to
occur occasionally in the present day. The fear of witchcraft and vio-
lence directed toward suspected witches could become severe
enough that authorities, especially European colonial authorities, felt
the need to intervene. For example, in 1914, a witchcraft ordinance
was issued in Zambia that prescribed punishment for making accusa-
tions of witchcraft or using certain forms of magic to discover sup-
posed witches. Ironically, in many areas European colonial rule in
Africa seems to have exacerbated the very economic and social ten-
sions that often underlie accusations of witchcraft.
African beliefs and systems of magic have also influenced some
modern religions that incorporate a significant amount of what could
be labeled magical rituals. In particular, African slaves brought to the
Americas and forced to convert at least nominally to Christianity re-
tained many of their traditional beliefs. African deities and other su-
pernatural entities were merged with Christian saints and a number of
syncretistic beliefs emerged. The modern religions of Santería and
Voodoo are prominent examples of such syncretism. These religions
are practiced mainly in the Caribbean and elsewhere in Latin Amer-
ica, as well as in large Hispanic communities in North America.
AGE, CORRELATION WITH WITCH ACCUSATIONS. By far the
most common image of a witch is that of an old hag. From surviving
evidence, it seems clear that the majority of people accused of witch-
craft throughout the historical period of the European witch-hunts
AGE, CORRELATION WITH WITCH ACCUSATIONS • 5

were in fact old women. There is also an opposite stereotype of the
witch as a young seductress, but this seems to have been more com-
mon in literary representations of witchcraft (the models being classi-
cal figures like Circe or Medea) than in actual accusations. Moreover,
an elderly witch could also be seen as sexually driven, since during the
medieval and early-modern periods old women were often regarded
as being sexually voracious. The actual factors producing such a high
number of elderly people among the accused were several. Suspicion
of witchcraft often developed slowly in a community, and many years
of strange or threatening behavior might be needed before an initial
accusation came to be leveled at an individual. Also, the elderly, and
especially elderly women, could easily become marginalized socially,
thereby making them easier targets for accusations. Widows, in par-
ticular, might be seen as a burden by their families, or as an obstacle
to property inheritance. Also, the elderly could easily suffer from
some form of senility, producing odd behavior and making them vul-
nerable to accusations.
AGRIPPA (HEINRICH CORNELIUS AGRIPPA VON NETTE-
SHEIM) (1486–1535). More important for the history of magic than
the history of witchcraft per se, Agrippa was one of the most famous
magicians and occult philosophers of the early-modern period. He
completed his major work, De occulta philosophia (On Occult Phi-
losophy) in 1510, when he was only 24 years old, but he did not
publish this work until 1533. It became one of the most important
compendiums of magical and occult knowledge of the period.
Agrippa was born in Cologne and educated at the university there.
He was drawn to the study of the Kabbalah, the Jewish system of
mysticism and occult knowledge, and to neo-platonic and Hermetic
magic and occult systems. He led a peripatetic life, holding many po-
sitions throughout France and the German Empire. His involve-
ment with magic often raised concerns on the part of local authorities
and frequently prompted his relocation. Many stories began to circu-
late about Agrippa’s life. He was widely considered to be a magician
involved in the blackest arts, such as demonic invocation, and was at
times suspected of witchcraft. He supposedly had a demonic famil-
iar, which took the form of a large black dog, and he was rumored to
be able to reanimate corpses with his magic.
6 • AGRIPPA (HEINRICH CORNELIUS AGRIPPA VON NETTESHEIM) (1486–1535)

Rumors aside, the only direct involvement he seems to have had
with witchcraft was as a defender of accused witches. On one occa-
sion, while living in Metz, he became involved in a witch trial. A
woman was being accused of witchcraft, primarily on the grounds
that her mother had been convicted and executed for this crime.
Agrippa successfully defended the woman, arguing that the crime of
witchcraft, involving a deliberate pact with the devil, had to be en-
tered into voluntarily. A witch’s power could not simply be inherited
from another person.
ALBERTUS MAGNUS (ca. 1190–1280). Born in the German region
of Swabia, Albertus Magnus (Albert the Great) was a Dominican
friar and an important medieval philosopher and theologian. He
taught theology at the university in Paris, where his most famous
student was Thomas Aquinas, and later he went to the Dominican
studium at Cologne. Albertus viewed some magic as a form of nat-
ural science, distinct from demonic sorcery. In the area of de-
monology, however, he helped to develop notions of explicit and
tacit pacts that humans might enter into with demons. His student
Aquinas would develop this position more fully, and such ideas
formed an important basis for later notions of witchcraft. Like
many famous medieval scholars, Albertus himself developed a pop-
ular reputation as an alchemist, astronomer, and sorcerer. While he
certainly did engage in the study of certain occult sciences, which
he viewed as legitimate, he thoroughly condemned demonic sor-
cery.
ALCHEMY. An occult science that developed in antiquity and was re-
discovered in Europe, along with other forms of learned magic and
occult practices, in the 12th century, alchemy involved the manipula-
tion of the secret properties of chemicals and other natural materials.
Above all, alchemists sought to discover the so-called philosopher’s
stone, which would allow them to transmute lead or other common
materials into silver and gold. As a clearly learned form of magical
practice, like astrology, alchemy had little direct connection to
witchcraft. Alchemists might, however, as a result of the secretive
nature of their work, become suspect of practicing more sinister
forms of magic.
ALCHEMY • 7

ALEXANDER IV, POPE (?–1261). By the 1250s, papal inquisitors,
whose purpose was to investigate cases of heresy, were increasingly
dealing with matters of sorcery, and questions were being raised as
to whether such matters properly fell under their jurisdiction. In
1258, Alexander IV (pope from 1254 to 1261) ruled that sorcery was
not a matter of concern for papal inquisitors, unless the sorcery in-
volved acts that “manifestly savored of heresy” (manifeste saperent
haeresim). Since any case of sorcery that involved the invocation or
worship of demons met this condition, Alexander’s ruling provided
an important basis for later inquisitorial action against sorcerers and
witches. See also INQUISITORIAL PROCEDURE.
ALEXANDER V, POPE (ca. 1340–1410). Reigning for only a short
time from 1409 to 1410, Alexander V, in his first year as pope, sent a
letter to the Franciscan inquisitor Pontus Fougeyron in which he an-
nounced his concern over the existence of many people, both Chris-
tians and Jews, who performed demonic sorcery and worshiped
demons. In particular, he stated that such people were forming “new
sects” (novas sectas). The use of this phrase was not original to
Alexander, but serves to illustrate how, in the early 15th century,
witchcraft was clearly perceived as a new and serious threat to the
church and Christian society in Europe.
APOSTASY. Referring to a complete renunciation of the basic princi-
ples of faith, apostasy was considered to be one of the chief crimes
entailed in witchcraft, along with idolatry, during the medieval and
early-modern periods. Upon entering a heretical cult of witches, usu-
ally at a witches’ sabbath, new witches were generally believed to be
required to renounce the Christian faith entirely and pledge them-
selves to the service of the devil. Unlike normal heresy, which in-
volved errors of belief or practice that could be corrected, apostasy
was often seen as an unforgivable crime, a kind of treason against
God that required the most severe form of punishment possible.
AQUINAS, THOMAS (ca. 1225–1274). A Dominican friar and one of
the most important theologians of the Middle Ages, Aquinas was born
in Italy and studied in Paris and Cologne under the direction of the
Dominican scholar Albertus Magnus (Albert the Great). Aquinas
8 • ALEXANDER IV, POPE (?–1261)

later became a professor of theology at Paris and in Italy. In numerous
works, most notably his Summa contra gentiles (Summa Against the
Gentiles) and Summa theologiae (Summa of Theology), he system-
atized medieval theology according to scholastic logic. Although his
works were at first controversial, they later became widely accepted
as authoritative, especially by other Dominican authors. Many early
clerical authorities who wrote on witchcraft cited Aquinas heavily, in-
cluding the Dominicans Johannes Nider, Jean Vineti, and Heinrich
Kramer, the author of the Malleus maleficarum.
Aquinas did not write about witchcraft himself—he lived centuries
before the idea of diabolic witchcraft fully developed in Europe—but
he did discuss the operations of sorcery and the power of demons in
several of his works. He worked out a logical system to explain how
demons, as spiritual beings, could affect the physical world, includ-
ing how demons operating as incubi could impregnate women, and
how they might influence human actions. He also discussed the evil
nature of demons and demonic sorcery. Such sorcery, he argued, al-
ways entailed at least a tacit pact between the human sorcerer and the
demon that the sorcerer invoked. Demons submitted to carry out the
wishes of sorcerers in order to ensnare and corrupt them. Such basic
notions of demonology and the nature of demonic sorcery became
foundational for later ideas of witchcraft.
ASTROLOGY. Throughout ancient, medieval, and early-modern Eu-
rope, most people believed that the stars and planets exerted influ-
ence on many aspects of the terrestrial world, including human be-
ings, and that stellar bodies could be used to predict the future.
Astrology, the study of the stars and their effects, was practiced as a
real, if often occult, science by educated elites, but many forms of as-
trology were also practiced at a popular level. Perhaps the most com-
mon use of astrology was the practice of making horoscopes to pre-
dict the future and divine the destiny of individual people. Astrology
also entered into many other forms of magical and occult operations,
since the power of the stars was thought, for example, to affect
alchemy and even demonic invocations. Astral magic, which
claimed to draw down and manipulate the power of heavenly bodies,
was obviously intimately connected to astrology. There was, how-
ever, little direct connection between astrology and witchcraft.
ASTROLOGY • 9

AUGUSTINE OF HIPPO, SAINT (354–430). The most important of
the so-called Latin Fathers of the Christian church, and probably the
most important intellectual figure in the history of Western Christian-
ity, Augustine’s writings on demonology and the nature of magic pro-
vided a basis for all further consideration of these subjects throughout
the Middle Ages and the early-modern period in Europe. Above all,
his ideas about demonic involvement in most forms of magic and the
necessity of pacts between the human magician and the demon were
essential to later conceptions of sorcery and witchcraft.
Born in North Africa, Augustine studied in Carthage and later in
Italy. Although his mother was a Christian, he did not convert to
Christianity until 385. He then returned to North Africa, where he be-
came a priest and later bishop of the city of Hippo. For the rest of his
life, Augustine devoted himself to demonstrating the superiority of
Christianity to pagan religions. Of particular importance to the his-
tory of magic and later witchcraft were his arguments that pagan
deities were in fact Christian demons and that pagan religious prac-
tices were empty superstitions. He distinguished sharply between
magic performed with the aid of demons and legitimate Christian
miracles performed by divine power. He discussed the nature of
demons in many works, especially in his treatise De divinatione dae-
monum (On the Divination of Demons), written in 406, and in sec-
tions of his greatest work, The City of God, written from 413 to 425.
Because demons were inherently evil, he reasoned, they would not
serve humans who invoked them unless those human sorcerers en-
tered into pacts with the demons and worshiped them.
– B –
BABA YAGA. A famous witch in Russian folklore, Baba Yaga was pic-
tured as an old woman who lured people to her home where she
cooked and devoured them. She especially liked to practice such can-
nibalism on young children. Much more a demonic monster than a
human figure, she lived in a hut beyond a river of fire. The hut was
surrounded by stakes set with human heads and was built on chicken
legs, so that it could move at her command. She often flew through
the air in an iron cauldron. She is clearly related to other night-flying,
10 • AUGUSTINE OF HIPPO, SAINT (354–430)

child-devouring monsters that later became associated with witch-
craft in the traditions of Western lands, such as the Roman strix.
BACCHANALIA. A religious celebration in honor of the Roman god
of wine, Bacchus, the rites, real or supposed, of the Bacchanalia be-
came an important basis for the idea of the witches’ sabbath in later
medieval Europe. In ancient Greece, worshipers of the god of wine
and fertility, Dionysos (who later became the Roman Bacchus), gath-
ered at night, often in secluded wilderness areas. Their celebrations
usually involved a number of women led by male priests, and en-
tailed rites involving the consumption of wine, ecstatic dancing, and
animal sacrifice. The god, Dionysos, was represented by a horned
goat, a traditional symbol of fertility. The celebrations were often as-
sociated with sexual frenzies. In Roman times, the Bacchanalia be-
came so associated with uncontrolled revelry, sexual activity, and im-
morality, that it was outlawed by the Roman Senate in 186 B.C .E. The
description of a Bacchanalia by the Roman historian Livy became an
important literary model for the later idea of the sabbath.
BACON, ROGER (ca. 1213–1291). An English Franciscan philoso-
pher and scholar, Bacon was one of the most important natural sci-
entists of the Middle Ages. In particular, he studied alchemy, astrol-
ogy, mathematics, and optics. He developed a popular reputation as
a sorcerer because of his unconventional scientific experiments and
his pursuit of occult learning. There is no evidence, however, that Ba-
con was ever significantly interested in matters of demonic sorcery
(as some medieval scholars were), and he certainly was never asso-
ciated with witchcraft in any way.
BAMBERG WITCH TRIALS. The scene of some of the most severe
witch-hunts in the German Empire, the persecution of witches in and
around the city of Bamberg was particularly intense during the reign of
Bishop Johann Georg Fuchs von Dornheim, the so-called Hexen-
bischof or “witch-bishop,” from 1623 to 1633. Bishop Johann estab-
lished a large staff to carry out the hunt for and prosecution of witches,
and he had a special prison constructed, the Hexenhaus or “witch-
house,” containing cells and interrogation chambers to hold suspected
witches. The hunts in Bamberg began to spiral out of control, and many
BAMBERG WITCH TRIALS • 11

prominent citizens were accused. Eventually, the situation became so
bad that an appeal was made to the emperor Ferdinand II. Finally, in
1630 and 1631, he issued mandates that proper legal procedures should
be more carefully adhered to in all cases of suspected witchcraft in ac-
cordance with the Carolina law code that supposedly governed the en-
tire empire. From this point, and especially with the death of Bishop
Johann and other important persecutors, the number of trials in Bam-
berg gradually decreased.
BAPHOMET. An image of the devil or a demon as a horned, half-goat
creature, Baphomet is of medieval origins. The word may be a cor-
ruption of the name of the Islamic prophet Muhammad (often incor-
rectly rendered as Mahomet in medieval Christian sources), con-
ceived by Christian authorities as a demon or idol. In the early 14th
century, the Knights Templar were accused of possessing an idol
shaped like the head of Baphomet, which they supposedly worshiped.
In the 19th century, the image of Baphomet was revived among oc-
cultists and enthusiasts of ritual magic. Perhaps the most famous im-
age of the horned goat-devil was drawn by the French occultist
Eliphas Lévi, and the well-known British occultist Aleister Crowley
took the name Baphomet at one point in his career. In the 20th cen-
tury, a version of the image of Baphomet—a goat’s head inscribed in
an upside-down pentagram—was adopted by the Church of Satan
as its official symbol. The image has also often been associated with
witchcraft, but no practitioners of Wicca or other forms of modern
neo-paganism use the image in any way, although practitioners of
modern Satanism continue to do so.
BASEL, COUNCIL OF (1431–1449). This great church council, held in
the city of Basel in the first half of the 15th century, was an important
center for the early diffusion of the idea of witchcraft across Western
Europe. Several of the most important early theorists of witchcraft
were present at the council or associated with it in some way, and
clearly many clerics first learned of witchcraft while at Basel.
In the early 15th century, full-fledged demonic witchcraft, that is,
witchcraft that involved not just the practice of harmful sorcery
(maleficium) against others, but also involved the worship of
demons or the devil, apostasy from the faith, gatherings at a sab-
12 • BAPHOMET

bath, and all the attendant horrors that implied, was a fairly new and
localized phenomenon. Some of the earliest true witch trials were
only just beginning to take place, mainly in lands in and around the
western Alps—the dioceses of Lausanne and Sion, and the territories
of Dauphiné and Savoy. The Council of Basel brought churchmen
from across Europe together just to the north of these regions.
Several of the first learned authorities to write on witchcraft were
present at the Council of Basel. Perhaps most important among these
men was the Dominican theologian Johannes Nider. In his major
work on witchcraft, the Formicarius (Anthill), he included several
accounts of witches in the Simme valley in the Bernese Oberland,
that is, the alpine territory of the city of Bern, and elsewhere in the
diocese of Lausanne. He also wrote about the supposed witchcraft of
Joan of Arc, about whom he learned while at the council from cler-
ics who had come from Paris. The French cleric and poet Martin Le
Franc was also at Basel, and there composed his poem Le Champion
des Dames (The Defender of Ladies), in which he included a long
section about witchcraft. Moreover, there is strong evidence to sug-
gest that the anonymous clerical author of the Errores Gazariorum
(Errors of the Gazarii), another important early description of witch-
craft, was associated with the council in some way.
In addition, many ecclesiastical authorities involved in the prose-
cution of witches were present at the Council of Basel, for example
George de Saluces, who was later bishop of Lausanne from 1440 un-
til 1461, and under whose direction several witch-hunts were con-
ducted. Also the inquisitor Ulric de Torrenté, who conducted some of
the earliest witch trials in the diocese of Lausanne, might have been
at the council for some time. Most famously, Nicholas Jacquier,
who later conducted numerous witch trials as an inquisitor in north-
ern France, attended the council in 1432 and 1433. He also wrote the
important treatise on witchcraft Flagellum hereticorum fascinario-
rum (The Scourge of Heretical Witches) in 1458.
BASQUE LANDS, WITCHCRAFT IN. The Basque lands comprise a
small region in southwestern France and northern Spain, lying on ei-
ther side of the Pyrenees. They were the scene of some of the most in-
tense witch-hunting in both countries. The major Basque witch-hunt
began in 1609. In France, the judge Pierre de Lancre was appointed
BASQUE LANDS, WITCHCRAFT IN • 13

to the Pays de Labourd and began to investigate cases of witchcraft.
He quickly became convinced that the entire region was infested with
witches. He wrote of thousands of witches gathering at great sab-
baths, and he is often credited with executing up to 600 supposed
witches, although in all likelihood the figure should be under 100. In
Spain, cases of witchcraft fell under the jurisdiction of the Spanish In-
quisition, and in 1609 the inquisitor Alonso de Salazar Frias was ap-
pointed to the regional tribunal at Logroño. Unlike Lancre, he was
skeptical of many of the charges being made in the courts. In 1611 and
1612, he conducted a thorough investigation of the procedures being
employed in witch trials in the region. He found many lapses in pro-
cedure and became convinced that many of the convictions being ob-
tained were false. Based on his report, the central council of the Span-
ish Inquisition in Madrid, the Suprema, established much stricter
oversight and guidelines for witch trials. By 1614, the severe outbreak
of witch-hunting on both sides of the Pyrenees was over and the re-
gion was returning to normal.
BAYLE, PIERRE (1647–1706). An important philosopher, born in
France and later a professor at the university in Rotterdam, Bayle
was a strong advocate of liberalism and religious toleration. He
treated the subject of witchcraft at length in his Résponse aux ques-
tions d’un provincial (Responses to the Questions of a Provincial),
written in 1703. He did not deny the potential reality of sorcery or
witchcraft, or the power of the devil. Instead he advocated a more
moderate form of skepticism, arguing that many acts attributed to
witchcraft could also arise from natural causes, and that human au-
thorities could rarely, if ever, be certain in assigning blame to
witches. He also felt that the excessive use of torture led to many
false convictions in cases of witchcraft, that many convicted witches
were in fact deranged or confused, and that authorities should not
place so much credence in popular beliefs and concerns.
BEKKER, BALTHASAR (1634–1698). One of the most important
and perhaps the most thorough opponent of witch-hunting in the
17th century, Bekker was a Dutch clergyman. In 1690, he published
the first volumes of his De Betoverde Weereld (The Enchanted
World), which was soon translated into German, English, and French.
14 • BAYLE, PIERRE (1647–1706)

A rationalist thinker following the model of the French philosopher
René Descartes, in this work, he exhibited a complete skepticism
about the very existence of witchcraft, unlike many other opponents
of the witch-hunts who chose to criticize only the faulty procedures
of witch trials, which they felt were producing numerous false con-
victions, while still maintaining the potential reality of witchcraft in
the world. Drawing on a new, mechanistic understanding of the uni-
verse, Bekker did not deny the reality of demons, but he did deny
that they could exert any influence or power over the natural world
or human affairs. Rather than attribute certain occurrences to witch-
craft, he maintained, authorities should look for natural explanations
for these events, whatever they were. Because demons lacked any
real power in the world, there was no basis for the supposed pact be-
tween witches and the devil. For his beliefs, Bekker was labeled an
atheist and ultimately was expelled from the Dutch Reformed church.
BENANDANTI. The apparent remnants of an ancient fertility cult
practicing a form of archaic shamanism, the benandanti were people
in the northern Italian region of Friuli who believed that they traveled
at night in spirit form to battle witches. The name benandanti trans-
lates as “those who go well” or “well-doers.” They consisted of men
and women who had been born with the caul, the inner fetal mem-
brane, still intact and covering their bodies. Such births are frequently
taken as a sign of supernatural power in many cultures. Upon reach-
ing maturity, the benandanti were initiated into their cult. On certain
days they were summoned, while they slept, to travel in spirit form
to battle witches, also in spirit form. The benandanti were armed with
fennel stalks and the witches with sorghum stalks. If the benandanti
were victorious, the fertility of the land and abundant crops in the
coming season were assured. When awake and in their physical
forms, the benandanti were also thought to have certain supernatural
powers, especially the power to perform magical healing.
In 1575, the benandanti first came to the attention of ecclesiastical
inquisitors. These authorities immediately suspected that the benan-
danti were themselves witches, a claim that the benandanti vigor-
ously denied. An inquisition was instituted, and inquests and trials
lasted until well into the 1640s. Over this period, inquisitors did suc-
ceed, to some extent, in convincing the local populace and even some
BENANDANTI • 15

of the benandanti themselves that they were in fact involved in
witchcraft and attending witches’ sabbaths. As was typical for
Southern Europe, however, the trials were well-controlled, torture
was rarely employed, and no major witch-hunt developed.
Scholars now agree that the benandanti are among the best exam-
ples of the surviving remnants of ancient pagan fertility cults in me-
dieval and early-modern European society. The roots of the beliefs
surrounding the benandanti are clearly ancient. By the 16th century,
however, they had become thoroughly Christianized. The benandanti
often maintained that they were summoned by angels to battle witches
and that they were agents of God in this struggle against evil. They
thus reveal how surviving fragments of ancient beliefs and practices
could combine with Christian belief and notions of witchcraft.
BERKELEY, WITCH OF. The story of the witch of Berkeley suppos-
edly took place around the time of the Norman conquest of England
in 1066. The chronicler William of Malmesbury included it in his
history of the kings of England, the Gesta regum, and the story con-
tinued to circulate throughout the medieval and early-modern periods.
A powerful sorceress lived at Berkeley. She performed demonic
magic and had clearly entered into some sort of pact with the devil.
Upon receiving a premonition of her own death, she asked her chil-
dren, since they could not save her soul, at least to try to protect her
body after death by sewing it into the skin of a stag and placing it in a
stone coffin fastened by three chains inside a church. On the first two
nights after her death, demons assailed the church in which she lay
and broke two of the chains. On the third night the devil himself ap-
peared and commanded the woman’s corpse to come with him. The
body replied from inside the coffin that it could not, at which point the
devil broke the third chain and carried off the corpse on an enormous
black horse. Although horrific in its depiction of the connection be-
tween sorcery and ensnarement of a human soul by demons, the story
of the witch of Berkeley does not contain any overt descriptions of the
worship of demons or other elements of diabolism that would later
come to comprise the stereotype of witchcraft.
BERNARDINO OF SIENA (1380–1444). One of the most popular
preachers in the early 15th century, Bernardino was a Franciscan friar
16 • BERKELEY, WITCH OF

who was active across northern Italy. He was particularly concerned
with matters of immorality that he felt threatened to corrupt the en-
tire community in which they were found, especially sorcery and
witchcraft, sodomy, and toleration of Jews. In fiery sermons, he
called for the extirpation of these supposed sins. He witnessed an
early witch trial in Rome, probably in 1426 (some sources give 1424
or other years). He later tried to instigate trials for witchcraft in his
native Siena in 1427, and was associated with a witch trial in Todi in
1428. Through his sermons, Bernardino can be seen as helping to be-
gin the spread of concern over sorcery and witchcraft that would soon
escalate into the earliest witch-hunts in Europe.
BIBLE, WITCHCRAFT IN. The most famous reference to witch-
craft in the Bible is the passage from Exodus 22:18, given in the 17th
century King James’ Version as “Thou shalt not suffer a witch to
live.” Throughout the period of the European witch-hunts, this pas-
sage served as the biblical justification for the execution of witches.
In fact, the original text referred to soothsayers or diviners, but
throughout the medieval and early-modern periods, the passage was
understood as referring to sorcerers and witches. Other biblical pas-
sages of significance for the later history of witchcraft include the
story of the Witch of Endor (again originally described only as a
pythoness or diviner) to whom King Saul went to consult with the
spirit of the dead prophet Samuel. Later Christian authorities regu-
larly assumed that the “witch” must in fact have summoned a demon
who took the form of the prophet. Other important episodes include
the encounter between Moses and Aaron and the magicians of the
Egyptian pharaoh in Exodus 7:8–13, and the story in 1 Kings 18 in
which the prophet Elijah defeated the priests of Baal in a magical
contest. Later authorities held that priests of pagan religions depicted
in the Bible actually worked their magic by summoning demons. The
victory of God’s prophets in both of these contests was used to show
the superiority of divine miracle to demonic sorcery or witchcraft.
The most significant magical figure from the New Testament was
Simon Magus of Samaria. He was a magician who confronted the
apostles of Christ in Acts 8:9–24. Seeing that their power was su-
perior to his, he offered the apostle Peter money to be granted sim-
ilar power. Peter, of course, refused. In later apocryphal literature,
BIBLE, WITCHCRAFT IN • 17

the rivalry between Simon Magus and Peter (also called Simon Pe-
ter) was elaborated, and Simon Magus became the archetype for
practitioners of demonic sorcery throughout the Middle Ages. He
was, however, never described as a witch.
BINSFELD, PETER (ca. 1540–1603). A theologian and suffragan
bishop of Trier, Binsfeld was a major German authority on witch-
craft. He played a key role in the severe outbreak of witch-hunting
that took place at Trier in the late 1580s and early 1590s, and he
wrote a Tractatus de confessionibus maleficiorum et sagarum (Trea-
tise on the Confessions of Witches), first published in 1589. His pur-
pose was to justify the witch trials at Trier, and in particular to defend
the value of the confessions made by accused witches as evidence
against other witches. He drew on all the previous major Catholic
works on witchcraft, such as the Malleus maleficarum and the trea-
tises by Alfonso de Spina and Jean Bodin, and he criticized more
skeptical authorities such as Johann Weyer. He was also instru-
mental in opposing the skeptical authority Cornelius Loos, who had
written a treatise in response to the severe witch-hunts he had wit-
nessed in Trier.
BLACK MASS. Generally conceived as an elaborate perversion of the
Catholic Mass, involving the inversion of liturgical ritual and often
nude rites and sexual orgies dedicated to Satan, the Black Mass ac-
tually has no historical reality, and certainly no association with
witchcraft, either historical or modern. Although the witches’ sab-
bath, as conceived in the late-medieval and early-modern periods, in-
volved mocking Christian rites, worshiping the devil, and engaging
in sexual orgies, no historical account describes any rituals directly
perverting the Catholic Mass. There is evidence from the 17th cen-
tury that certain nobles at the court of French king Louis XIV hired
priests to perform unorthodox Masses containing sacrilegious and
erotic elements, but this seems to have been done more for titillation
than out of any serious worship of the devil. Only in the 18th century
did the concept of a Black Mass develop and was then projected back
into earlier periods. Some secret and possibly occultist organizations
of the 18th century, such as the infamous Hellfire Club in England,
were rumored to perform Black Masses, but most likely they simply
18 • BINSFELD, PETER (CA. 1540–1603)

engaged in irreverent and libertine revels that gained a darker tint in
rumor and gossip. Practitioners of modern witchcraft, or Wicca, do
not engage in any rituals resembling a Black Mass, nor do most prac-
titioners of modern Satanism. The largest Satanist group, the
Church of Satan, founded by Anton LaVey, explicitly rejects the
Black Mass. Nevertheless, the stereotype of witches and other neo-
pagans performing Black Masses persists.
BODIN, JEAN (1529/30–1596). One of the greatest political thinkers
of the 16th century, Bodin is most famous for his Six livres de la
République (Six Books of the Republic), published in 1576. Here,
he presented one of the first modern arguments about the nature of
political sovereignty, maintaining that ultimate sovereignty lay with
the people who comprised a state. This work established Bodin as
one of the most progressive political thinkers of his time. In terms
of the history of witchcraft, however, he is most well known for his
work De la démonomanie des sorciers (The Demonomania of
Witches). First published in 1580, this book went through 10 edi-
tions before 1604, and for the remainder of the period of the witch-
hunts stood as one of the preeminent authoritative sources on
witchcraft. Nowhere near as liberal on this subject as he was in
other areas of political theory, Bodin argued forcefully for the real
danger posed by witchcraft and the need for authorities to uncover
and destroy this crime.
Born in Angers, France, Bodin became a Carmelite monk, but left
the monastery to pursue a university education at Toulouse, where
he excelled in classics, philosophy, economics, and above all law.
Eventually, he became a professor of law. In 1561, he went to Paris
in the service of the king, until the publication of the Six livres lost
him royal favor and he became a provincial prosecutor in Laon. His
Démonomanie was in part based on his own experience with witch
trials. Bodin was convinced of the reality and threat of witches, ar-
guing at length against such skeptics as Johann Weyer. His theo-
ries on witchcraft may be linked to his larger political thought in that
he saw in political authority a reflection of divine order on earth.
Thus, he was convinced that secular magistrates had to take all mea-
sures necessary to protect this order from the diabolical threat of
witchcraft.
BODIN, JEAN (1529/30–1596) • 19

BOGUET, HENRI (ca. 1550–1619). An eminent lawyer and author of
one of the most important legal treatises on witchcraft in early-modern
Europe, Bouget based his writings on his own experience with witch tri-
als and his personal examinations of many witches. In his Discours des
sorciers (Discourse on Witches), he not only described witchcraft but
collected existing legal statutes and codified the procedures legal au-
thorities should take against witches. As a practical handbook for deal-
ing with witchcraft, the Discours was at least as important as other ma-
jor works on witchcraft and demonology such as those by Jean Bodin,
Nicholas Rémy, and Pierre de Lancre.
BONAE MULIERES. Literally meaning “good women,” bonae
mulieres was a common term by which authorities writing in Latin
described various women or female creatures found in many Euro-
pean folk legends who flew or otherwise traveled at night and often
needed to be placated with offerings of food or drink. Aspects of the
bonae mulieres are reflected in the women who were thought to ride
with the pagan goddess Diana, as described in the canon Episcopi
and other sources, as well as older beliefs in malevolent, female,
nighttime demons such as the strix or lamia, or the Germanic con-
cept of the Wild Hunt. All of these notions came to inform the de-
veloping stereotype of witchcraft in various ways, contributing most
especially to the notion of the night flight of witches to a sabbath.
BONIFACE VIII, POPE (ca. 1235–1303). As pope from 1294 to
1303, Boniface came into conflict with many powerful European
rulers, such as the English king Edward I and especially the French
monarch Philip IV. After Boniface was dead, his political enemies
continued to struggle against his successors in the papacy. As part of
this conflict, servants of the French crown posthumously accused
Boniface of heresy, murder, and sodomy, of performing ritual magic,
and of being in league with demons. Although the magic the pope
was accused of performing was more akin to learned necromancy
than witchcraft, and although the charges against him were clearly
politically motivated, the case, along with the similar trial of the
Knights Templar at about the same time, served to some degree as
a harbinger of later developments, culminating ultimately in the ear-
liest witch-hunts.
20 • BOGUET, HENRI (CA. 1550–1619)

BOOK OF SHADOWS. In modern witchcraft, or Wicca, collections
of magical rituals, prayers, spells, beliefs, and teachings are called
Books of Shadows. They are the basic texts of the Wiccan religion.
The original Book of Shadows was composed by the founder of mod-
ern witchcraft, Gerald Gardner, and his chief assistant Doreen Va-
liente. Nevertheless, there is no definitive Book of Shadows for the
entire Wiccan tradition, which is very fragmented and decentralized.
Gardner himself continually rewrote and modified his Book of Shad-
ows, and Valiente, after breaking with Gardner, authored her own rit-
uals as well. Among modern witches, most covens, the basic group-
ings in which the religion functions, have their own Book of
Shadows, usually similar to other groups in their tradition but modi-
fied to meet the needs and beliefs of that particular coven. Some cer-
emonies of modern witchcraft can be practiced alone, and some mod-
ern witches are entirely solitary, not part of any organized group or
coven, so that individual witches can also have their own personal-
ized Books of Shadows.
BRITISH ISLES, WITCHCRAFT IN. All the lands of the British
Isles experienced significantly less intense witch-hunting than did
many areas of the continent. The total number of executions ranged
between 1,500 and 2,500, with virtually no executions taking place
in Ireland. Particularly in England, the full stereotype of witchcraft,
linking the practice of harmful sorcery, maleficium, with intense di-
abolism, attained force only much later than on the continent, and
was never accepted, even by authorities, as fully as it was in France
or the lands of the German Empire. For this reason, witchcraft in
England, involving only harmful sorcery, was seen as a less serious
offense, and in the absence of widespread belief in the diabolical
witches’ sabbath, those accused of witchcraft were rarely required
to name additional suspects. Individual cases, therefore, did not ex-
plode as easily into widespread hunts. In addition, the judicial use of
torture was extremely restricted in England. It was permitted only
by the specific command of the Privy Council, and only where mat-
ters of state were concerned. Thus, it was effectively banned in al-
most all cases of witchcraft. Not only did restriction of torture re-
duce the number of convictions in general, but it also contributed to
the slow and incomplete English acceptance of the diabolical aspects
BRITISH ISLES, WITCHCRAFT IN • 21

of witchcraft because evidence of large cults of witches and witches’
sabbaths generally rested on confessions obtained through torture.
This is not to say that major witch-hunts did not occur in England.
For example, the series of trials conducted by the famous witch-hunter
Matthew Hopkins in 1645 and 1646 claimed over 200 lives. Even
this hunt, however, the most severe in English history, was signifi-
cantly less extensive in scope than the greatest panics on the continent.
Scotland was similar to England in that it experienced only a be-
lated and never fully complete acceptance of continental ideas of di-
abolism, and similar restrictions were in place regarding the use of
torture (although the acceptance of diabolism was higher than in Eng-
land, and restrictions on torture were not always as effectively en-
forced). Nevertheless, Scotland experienced significantly more
witch-hunting than did England, with some estimates placing the
number of executions in Scotland at three times the number in Eng-
land (during a period when Scotland had only about one fourth of
England’s population). One reason for this was that the legal system
was not as fully centralized in Scotland as in England. Conviction
rates in trials heard by unsupervised local magistrates were signifi-
cantly higher than in those cases heard in Edinburgh or by royal cir-
cuit justices. In England, by comparison, almost all cases were heard
by royal circuit justices, and conviction rates were generally kept
low. In addition, the church in Scotland seems to have been more di-
rectly involved in the prosecution of witches than in England. Still,
even the largest hunts in Scotland did not approach the scale of the
major continental hunts.
In Ireland, virtually no witch-trials are known to have taken place,
although the land had a reputation for sorcery, and the belief in harm-
ful magic was certainly widespread. One possible explanation is that
the prevalence of belief in fairies allowed the Irish population to ex-
plain misfortune without resorting to accusing their neighbors of
maleficent magic. Another equally likely explanation is that the Irish
often did suspect their neighbors of witchcraft, but refused to bring
charges against them in courts, since these operated under English
law and were seen as instruments of foreign oppression.
BROOMS. One of the most standard images of the night flight of witches
was that of witches flying on brooms. The first images of witches on
22 • BROOMS

brooms date from the 15th century, most famously associated with the
description of witchcraft in the poem Le Champion des Dames (The
Defender of Ladies) by the French poet Martin Le Franc. In fact, early
sources such as Le Champion and also the Errores Gazariorum (Errors
of the Gazarii) describe witches flying on brooms, staffs, and other com-
mon household or farming implements. Other descriptions of flight,
such as that found in the famous canon Episcopi, describe witches rid-
ing on animals or demons in the form of animals. Nevertheless, the
broom became the most common implement for flight supposedly used
by witches. Most likely this was because the broom was an extremely
standard household item used by all women. Generally, witches were
thought to have to anoint themselves or their brooms with certain mag-
ical potions or ointments in order to be able to fly. Often these oint-
ments were supplied to them by the devil at a witches’ sabbath.
BUCKLAND, RAYMOND (1934– ). Born in London, Buckland was
the person initially most responsible for the introduction of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca, to the United States. While still living in Eng-
land, Buckland became interested in the study of religions and the oc-
cult. He was drawn to the notion of witchcraft as a revived ancient re-
ligion by the writings of Margaret Murray and Gerald Gardner. In
1962, he emigrated to the United States, and a year later, while back
in England, met Gardner and was initiated into modern witchcraft.
Thereafter, Buckland became Gardner’s principal agent in North
America. Eventually, Buckland broke with Gardner’s variety of
witchcraft and founded his own variety, called Seax-Wicca, based
more closely on ancient Anglo-Saxon traditions. A prolific author,
Buckland has written many books and for a long time conducted a
correspondence school in witchcraft from his home.
– C –
CAESARIUS OF HEISTERBACH (ca. 1180–1250). A well-known
Cistercian abbot of Heisterbach in the Rhineland, Caesarius was a
theologian and the author of numerous treatises on religious subjects.
His most famous work was the Dialogus miraculorum (Dialogue on
Miracles), composed in the 1220s and 1230s. In this long, moralizing
CAESARIUS OF HEISTERBACH (CA. 1180–1250) • 23

work he included several stories of demons and demonic sorcery,
particularly necromancy. He stands as an example of the increasing
concern over such matters on the part of clerical authorities in the late
12th and 13th centuries.
CALVIN, JEAN (1509–1564). After Martin Luther, Calvin was the
leading figure of the Protestant Reformation. Like Luther, while he
disagreed with and challenged many aspects of medieval theology, he
fully accepted the power of the devil and the system of demonology
on which the idea of witchcraft rested, and he fully accepted the re-
ality of the threat posed by witches. He treated these issues in many
of his sermons, biblical commentaries, and theological writings, and
his doctrines provided a basis for the continuation of witch-hunting
in Calvinist lands.
CANNIBALISM. One of the more horrible aspects of the witch-
stereotype, cannibalism, especially the cannibalizing of babies and
young children, has a long association with evil sorcery, heresy,
and witchcraft. In classical mythology, nocturnal monsters such as
the strix and lamia were believed to kill and often devour children.
During the Middle Ages, Jews were often suspected of murdering
Christian children and eating their flesh, in a dark parody of the
Christian Eucharist. Later, the killing and eating of babies was
thought to be a standard element of the witches’ sabbath. Ironically,
the association of cannibalism with unorthodox and clandestine re-
ligious assemblies probably began with the rise of Christianity itself.
In the Roman Empire, when Christianity was seen as a dissident
sect, authorities often condemned Christian gatherings as orgiastic
festivals, and they sometimes sought to equate the consumption of
the Eucharist, which in Christian doctrine is the flesh of Christ, with
cannibalism.
CANON EPISCOPI. One of the most important legal texts regarding
sorcery, superstition, and later witchcraft, the earliest version of the
canon appears in the 10th century in the legal collection of Regino of
Prüm. It later was incorporated into other collections of canon law,
most importantly the Decretum of Gratian in the 12th century. The
canon took its name from the first word of its text in Latin, and com-
24 • CALVIN, JEAN (1509–1564)

manded bishops and their officials to work to eliminate the danger-
ous practice of sorcery and harmful magic in their diocese. It then
went on to describe “certain women” who believed that they flew at
night in large assemblies with the goddess Diana. The canon was
careful to state that this did not occur in reality, but that these women
were simply deluded by illusions caused by demons. The crucial pas-
sage reads:
It is also not to be omitted that some wicked women, turned away af-
ter Satan and seduced by the illusions and phantasms of demons, be-
lieve and profess that, in the hours of the night, they ride upon certain
beasts with Diana, the goddess of the pagans, and an innumerable mul-
titude of women, and in the silence of night traverse great spaces of
earth, and obey her commands as of their mistress, and are summoned
to her service on certain nights.
The canon then goes on to declare that such flight is only an illusion
and deception, and “priests in all their churches should preach with
all insistence to the people that they may know this to be in every
way false and that such phantasms are imposed on the minds of infi-
dels not by the divine spirit but by a malignant one.”
This canon and the popular beliefs that it describes form an important
basis for the later concept of the night flight of witches to a sabbath.
Here, however, the women who supposedly engaged in such flight were
declared to be deluded. They appear less the willing servants of demons
than their victims, and, rather than prosecute such people, the canon en-
joins ecclesiastical authorities to work to correct this false and danger-
ous belief. Centuries later, when many authorities had accepted the
existence of witchcraft and become convinced of the very real nature of
the witches’ night flight and sabbath, the canon proved something of a
problem because it stated in authoritative and certain terms that such
practices were illusions. The most typical way around this dilemma was
to argue that, while the canon stated such practices could be illusory, it
did not maintain that they could never be real. Nor did it in any way
state that demons were incapable of producing real flight, as well as
imaginary flight. Still, many opponents of the witch-hunts, or those
who were at least skeptical about many of the more fantastic elements
of the witch-stereotype, such as the idea of the sabbath, continued to
make use of the canon in their arguments.
CANON EPISCOPI • 25

CARIBBEAN WITCHCRAFT. See SANTERÍA; VOODOO.
CAROLINA LAW CODE. A criminal law code for all the lands of the
German Empire was introduced at the Reichstag in Regensburg in
1532, under the authority of the emperor Charles V, thus deriving its
name from his (Carolus in Latin). The Carolina code, in theory, gov-
erned witchcraft prosecutions in the German Empire for the remain-
der of the period of the witch-hunts. However, given the political
fragmentation of the Empire, local courts could generally apply the
law as they saw fit. For example, in the severe witch trials in Bam-
berg in the early 17th century, victims of the trials actually appealed
to the emperor that he should enforce the proper application of the
Carolina code.
CASTAÑEGA, MARTÍN DE (early 16th century). A Franciscan
friar in Spain, Martín witnessed a series of witch trials in Pamplona
in 1527. In response, he wrote a Tratado muy sotil bien fundado de
las supersticiones y hechicerías (Treatise . . . on Superstition and
Witchcraft). Published in 1529, this was the first work on witchcraft
to be printed in the Spanish vernacular. Martín adopted a qualified
skepticism toward witchcraft. He accepted that some witches really
existed, but avoided any discussion of the more extreme elements of
the witch-stereotype, such as night flight and the witches’ sabbath.
He also argued that many events attributed to witchcraft could be
caused by other, natural means, and he was concerned that many peo-
ple accused of witchcraft were actually mentally ill.
CATS. Cats have long been associated with magic and witchcraft. The
ancient Egyptians venerated cats and associated them with, among
other deities, Isis, the mother-goddess and lunar deity who was also
a patron of the magic arts. In Christian Europe, heretics and later
witches were often thought to worship cats, or demons that had
transformed themselves into cats. Most descriptions of the witches’
sabbath depict the devil presiding over these gatherings and receiv-
ing worship in the form of a black animal, most often a black cat.
Cats were also the most common of the many forms that a demon
could take when it became a witch’s familiar. Cats believed to be fa-
miliars were often burned along with the witches they supposedly
26 • CARIBBEAN WITCHCRAFT

served, and because of their general association with evil, cats were
often killed in large numbers in regions experiencing particular hard-
ship or misfortune, such as famines or epidemics. See also GOATS.
CHELMSFORD WITCHES. The first major witch trial in England
occurred at Chelmsford, Essex, in 1566. The first statute against
witchcraft had been passed by Parliament under King Henry VIII in
1542, but was quickly revoked in 1547. A new statute, mandating
death for convicted witches, was passed under Elizabeth I in 1563.
The Chelmsford case was the first significant trial conducted under
this statute. Charges were brought against three women—Elizabeth
Francis, Agnes Waterhouse, and Agnes’ daughter Joan. Elizabeth
eventually confessed that she had learned witchcraft from her grand-
mother, who had given her a cat named Sathan as a familiar. The cat
was in fact the devil. She had the cat for 16 years, during which time
it aided her in performing various acts of maleficium, including
aborting one child and later murdering her daughter. Eventually, Eliz-
abeth gave the cat to Agnes, who supposedly turned it into a toad that
then continued to assist her in performing maleficium, including
killing farm animals and causing butter to spoil. Agnes was convicted
and hanged. Elizabeth received a lighter sentence, but was eventually
hanged after other charges of witchcraft were brought against her
years later. Agnes’ daughter Joan, however, was aquitted.
The Chelmsford case is typical of English witchcraft in that ele-
ments of diabolism and a formal pact with the devil are not as de-
veloped as in trials elsewhere in Europe, and the concept of the
witches’ sabbath is entirely absent. Instead, a demonic familiar fig-
ures significantly in the charges. Familiars were a common feature in
English witchcraft accusations, while the idea was much less preva-
lent on the continent. Chelmsford was also the site of several later
witch trials, notably one instigated by the self-proclaimed “Witch-
Finder General,” Matthew Hopkins, in 1645.
CHILDREN, WITCHCRAFT AND. Historically, children have figured
in witchcraft in several ways. On occasion, children could be accused
of witchcraft, although this was generally rare. Such accusations usually
occurred when one or more of the children’s older relatives had already
been accused. Also, children could play an important role as accusers
CHILDREN, WITCHCRAFT AND • 27

themselves. They could bring charges directly, or they could begin a
panic among adults by exhibiting symptoms of bewitchment or de-
monic possession. Their adult relatives would then begin making accu-
sations of witchcraft, perhaps directed by the children. The most famous
case of a major series of trials being generated by the accusations of
children occurred in Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692. Most frequently,
however, children figured in witchcraft purely as victims. Witches were
regularly assumed to use their powers to commit infanticide, killing ba-
bies and small children, or causing abortions or miscarriages. A standard
element of the witches’ sabbath was the murder and sacrifice of babies
to Satan, and the cannibalism of babies during the riotous orgies that
the witches held. This aspect of the witch-stereotype persists to the pres-
ent day, and some groups continue to allege that practitioners of mod-
ern witchcraft, or Wicca, and modern Satanism ritually abuse and mur-
der children, despite the fact the no credible evidence exists linking such
practices to any organized group.
CHURCH OF SATAN. Founded by Anton Szandor LaVey, the Church
of Satan is the leading organization for modern Satanism. LaVey en-
gaged in a variety of professions, but was always deeply interested in
matters of magic and the occult. In 1966, he founded the Church of
Satan in San Francisco. His major publications, The Satanic Bible
(1969) and The Satanic Rituals (1972), have been influential far be-
yond his own church. Most other Satanist groups adhere to LaVey’s
basic principles, even if they do not accept all aspects of the Church
of Satan’s particular structure and forms.
Modern Satanism, as conceived by LaVey, has little to do with the
traditional Satanism thought to exist in the past (and still believed by
many to exist in the modern world). To begin, LaVey’s Satanism does
not really involve the worship of Satan, at least not in the traditional
sense in which Satan is seen as the Christian devil, the representation
of all evil. The Church of Satan does not (in its own view) advocate
immorality or evil. Rather, it adheres to a philosophy of strong indi-
vidualism and hedonism, so long as the well-being of other people is
not adversely affected. The church advocates personal freedom and
the pursuit of worldly pleasure, above all physical and especially sex-
ual pleasure, which it maintains have been falsely proclaimed to be
evil by Christianity. In this basic philosophy, as well as in his contin-
28 • CHURCH OF SATAN

ued interest in occult learning and ritual magic, LaVey can be seen as
following in the footsteps of such famous 19th-century figures as
Aleister Crowley. Thus the Church of Satan does advocate and ad-
here to its own well defined, if non-Christian, ethical code. In partic-
ular, the use of illegal narcotics is strongly disapproved, and the tor-
ture or sacrifice of animals is strictly forbidden (in contrast to many
popular images of Satanist activity).
Despite the use of magical rituals in the Church of Satan, and the
frequent popular association of Satanism with witchcraft, the Church
of Satan is in no way associated with any aspect of modern witchcraft,
or Wicca. Modern witches strongly deny any aspect of Satanism in
their religion. For their part, members of the Church of Satan and most
other Satanist groups reject any association with Wiccan, neo-pagan,
or other New Age groups. In particular they object to the strong fem-
inist element of much modern witchcraft. It should be noted that the
Church of Satan is extremely small, certainly not more than a few
thousand members, and other Satanist groups are even smaller.
CHURCH OF WICCA. One of the oldest organizations of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca, in the United States, the Church of Wicca was
also the first such organization to receive official recognition as a re-
ligion. The church was founded in 1968 by Gavin and Yvonne Frost.
The Frosts then set about trying to attain official tax-exempt religious
status from the Internal Revenue Service. This came in 1972, and was
the first ruling to give Wicca the status of a federally recognized re-
ligion. Subsequently, the Church of Wicca became the first Wiccan
organization to have its status as an officially recognized religion up-
held in court, as a result of a federal appeals court affirmation of a
prisoner’s rights case in Virginia.
The church follows most of the usual beliefs and rites of Wiccan
practice, with one notable exception. The church holds that the nature
of the deity is not definable, as opposed to the typical emphasis on
the female Goddess in most other forms of modern witchcraft. The
church also maintains a School of Wicca, the oldest correspondence
school for modern witchcraft in the United States.
CIRCE. Along with Medea, Circe was one of the great female sorcer-
esses in classical mythology. She was often thought to be the daughter
CIRCE • 29

of Hecate, goddess of magic, and so was herself a demigoddess. She
is most famous for having turned the crew of the adventurer Odysseus
into swine when they came to her island. Odysseus forced her to re-
verse her spell, but became enamored with her and stayed on her island
for a year. In the medieval and early-modern periods, Circe became a
literary archetype of the witch, especially for the notion of witches as
dangerous seducers of men.
COLONIAL AMERICA, WITCHCRAFT IN. Witchcraft was not a
significant problem, and witch-hunts were extremely rare, through-
out almost all of the European colonies in the New World. The major
exception occurred in the British colonies in New England, where
significant witch-hunting did occur in the 17th century. In all, more
than 200 people were put on trial for witchcraft in New England, over
half in the single famous outbreak at Salem, Massachusetts, and 36
were executed, with 20 of these occurring at Salem alone. This num-
ber is significant given that the population of the New England
colonies at this time was only around 100,000 people. Thus courts in
New England executed something like 50 percent more witches per
capita than were sentenced to death in the British Isles, even if sta-
tistics from Scotland, where witch-hunting was more severe, are in-
cluded along with figures from England itself.
In many ways, in fact, witchcraft in New England followed more
of a continental pattern than the pattern most common in the British
Isles. In particular, aspects of diabolism—consorting with demons
or the devil, entering into demonic pacts, attending sabbaths, and
cases of possession—all figured significantly in cases of witchcraft
in New England. In contrast, in England itself, the diabolic aspects of
witchcraft were never fully accepted, even by authorities, and most
accusations and trials focused instead simply on maleficium, the
practice of harmful sorcery. As a crime, such sorcery was typically
regarded as far less serious and threatening to the community as a
whole than the demonically inspired conspiracy that underlay the no-
tions of diabolism in witchcraft.
The greater emphasis on diabolism in New England, and the
greater concern exhibited by the population as a whole in regard to
witchcraft, may be easily explained in terms of religion. Founded as
religious havens, these colonial communities were essentially theo-
30 • COLONIAL AMERICA, WITCHCRAFT IN

cratic in nature. Both individually and collectively, the colonists of
New England were deeply concerned with matters of moral and spir-
itual purity, and were wary of any potential signs of demonic assault
on their communities. Although witchcraft was regarded as a secular
offense and was tried in civil court, members of the clergy played a
major role in directing the trials and larger hunts. These men were of-
ten readily inclined to view any evidence of sorcery or possession as
a sign of a larger satanic conspiracy that needed to be rooted out for
the good of the community.
COMO, BERNARD DE (?–1510). A Dominican friar and inquisitor
who conducted a number of witch trials at Como in northern Italy,
Bernard wrote a brief Tractatus de strigiis (Treatise on Witches). The
treatise has most often been dated to the early 16th century, but may
have been written as early as the mid-1480s. It was later printed in
several editions, often with the famous Malleus maleficarum.
COVEN. In modern witchcraft, or Wicca, a coven refers to an organ-
ized and set group of witches who practice together. The traditional
number of people in a coven is 13, consisting of a leader and 12
members; however, in practice, the number varies widely. As modern
witchcraft is a very unstructured religion, covens are self-regulating
and determine what rites and ceremonies they will follow. Histori-
cally, the term can be traced at least to trials in the mid-17th century
in Scotland, and of course the idea that witches met in groups to wor-
ship the devil and perform harmful sorcery was always a basic ele-
ment of the idea of witchcraft. However, despite the claims of some
modern witches to be members of extremely old covens, some up to
800 years, there is no historical connection between the modern rit-
ual coven and the sorts of gatherings and witches’ sabbaths that were
thought to take place in the period of the witch-hunts.
CRAFT, THE. An alternate term for the rites and beliefs of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca.
CROWLEY, ALEISTER (1875–1947). One of the most famous oc-
cultists and practitioners of ritual magic in modern times, Crowley is
idolized by some and vilified by many others. He himself carefully
CROWLEY, ALEISTER (1875–1947) • 31

cultivated a dark reputation and seemed to enjoy the approbation of
others. His connections to witchcraft are tangential at best, but still
important.
Born in Warwickshire, England, into an intensely religious fam-
ily, Crowley came to reject Christianity entirely. He became inter-
ested, instead, in many varieties of occultism prevalent in England
in the late 19th century. In 1898, he joined the Hermetic Order of
the Golden Dawn, one of the most important occultist organizations
in England, and rose quickly through its ranks. He also came into
conflict with the hierarchy of the order, however, and studied many
other forms of occultism, esoteric Eastern religions, and so forth. He
claimed to have experienced many special revelations and to be the
incarnation of several historical occult figures, including an ancient
Egyptian priest of the 26th pharaonic dynasty. His Book of the Law,
written in 1904, claimed that the Christian era was past and es-
poused a new religion based on esoteric and magical knowledge. His
most famous work, Magick in Theory and Practice (1929), viewed
ritual magic as a means toward union with God (Crowley used the
spelling “magick” to distinguish real, mystical magic from illusion
or trickery).
Although by no means himself a witch or neo-pagan, Crowley did
exert some influence over modern witchcraft, or Wicca, and other
forms of neo-paganism. At the very end of his life, Crowley briefly
met Gerald Gardner, the founder of modern witchcraft, and many
elements of Crowley’s magical philosophies and rituals found their
way into some of Gardner’s early writings on witchcraft. Many of the
more explicit elements, however, were later removed by Gardner and
especially by his chief disciple Doreen Valiente. Nevertheless,
Crowley’s most basic philosophical principle has proven very influ-
ential on modern witchcraft and other varieties of neo-paganism.
This principle is known as the “Law of Thelema,” and is expressed
in The Book of the Law: “Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the
law.” This is not meant to express complete immorality, but rather
profound individuality and respect for human free will. It is echoed
in the basic creed common to modern Wicca and most neo-pagan
groups: if it harm none, do what you will. The basic “Wiccan Rede”
developed by Gerald Gardner (“an’ it harm none, do what ye will”),
is probably a direct borrowing of Crowley’s statement.
32 • CROWLEY, ALEISTER (1875–1947)

CUNNING MEN AND WOMEN. Also called wise men or wise women,
witch doctors, or sometimes white witches or wizards, cunning men and
women were people who engaged in a variety of activities, such as mag-
ical healing, fortune telling, and divination. Their activities were gen-
erally regarded as good or helpful, as opposed to the harmful sorcery,
or maleficium, performed by witches. Cunning men and women were
often consulted in cases of perceived bewitchment, either to undo the
bewitchment or to identify the witch who had supposedly cast the spell.
Cunning men and women claimed to derive their power in various
ways. Many maintained that they possessed a hereditary form of power
passed down through their family. Others might claim power due to
some special occurrence at birth or later in life. Being the seventh son
of a seventh son, for example, or being born with the caul were consid-
ered signs of supernatural power. Some cunning folk might dabble in
more clearly learned forms of magic or divination, such as astrology.
Typically activities of cunning men and women included perform-
ing magical healing, fertility rituals, or love magic. They also acted as
fortune-tellers, and performed other forms of divination, such as iden-
tifying thieves, locating lost or stolen items, or reporting on the con-
dition of loved ones far away. In short, they performed all the magical
services common in pre-modern European society. Although cunning
folk were typically not identified as witches by most people, since
their magic was beneficial rather than harmful, they could neverthe-
less fall under suspicion on occasion. Also, during the late-medieval
and early-modern periods, when authorities were more concerned
with the supposedly demonic nature of almost all magic rather than
the particular ends to which magic might be employed, cunning men
and women could easily be charged with witchcraft.
– D –
DANEAU, LAMBERT (1530–1590). A Calvinist preacher and pastor
near the French city of Orléans, Deneau probably became concerned
about witchcraft due to a number of witch trials that took place in
nearby Paris. In 1564, he wrote a treatise De veneficiis (On Witches)
in the popular form of a dialogue. His purpose was to counter the
skepticism that still existed regarding many aspects of witchcraft and
DANEAU, LAMBERT (1530–1590) • 33

the full threat that witches supposedly represented to Christian soci-
ety. Although influenced primarily by the theology of Jean Calvin,
Daneau was a learned scholar and humanist, and he incorporated
references to classical Greek and Roman authors, and even medieval
canon law, freely into his dialogue. The work proved very popular
and was subsequently translated into both English and German.
DEE, JOHN (1527–1608). The most renowned learned magician in
Elizabethan England, Dee was a brilliant scholar and pursued stud-
ies in astronomy, astrology, alchemy, mathematics, and Hermetic
magic. He traveled extensively throughout Europe in pursuit of oc-
cult learning, was accused of sorcery and black magic under Queen
Mary of England, and often performed astrological readings for
Queen Elizabeth. Despite the charges of sorcery brought against him,
which were politically motivated and of which he was acquitted, he
had relatively little to do with witchcraft during his long life.
Born in London into the family of a minor official in the court of
King Henry VIII, Dee entered St. John’s College in Cambridge when
he was only 15, and devoted the rest of his life to learning. Magic, as-
trology, and alchemy fascinated him, but he found little serious study
of these subjects at Cambridge and so went to the continent. Return-
ing to England, he performed astrological services for Queen Mary
and also for her half-sister Elizabeth, whom Mary had imprisoned for
political reasons. Dee therefore found himself imprisoned and
charged with performing sorcery. These charges were dismissed,
however, and when Mary died and Elizabeth ascended to the throne
Dee often performed astrological readings for her.
Perhaps most important for the history of witchcraft in England,
Dee’s contacts with magicians and demonologists across Europe, and
the many books he brought back with him to England, facilitated the
spread of continental demonology to England. Nevertheless, these
ideas never gained as firm a hold, even among learned elites, in Eng-
land as elsewhere in Europe. This was one important reason why con-
cerns over diabolical witchcraft and witch-hunting were never as se-
vere in England as in other regions of Europe.
DEL RIO, MARTIN (1551–1608). A famous Jesuit scholar, Del Rio
authored the Disquisitiones magicarum (Disquisitions on Magic),
34 • DEE, JOHN (1527–1608)

first published beginning in 1599 and going through numerous edi-
tions throughout the next century. This work became probably the
most important and most cited treatise on magic and witchcraft in
the 17th century.
Del Rio was born into a distinguished Spanish family in Antwerp
(then part of the Spanish Netherlands). He was an intellectual
prodigy and had published an edition and commentary of the
tragedies of Seneca by the time he was 19. At 24, he was appointed
Attorney General for the region of Brabant. In 1580, however, he
chose to enter the Jesuit order, after which he studied and taught at
numerous Jesuit centers around Europe. It was in Louvain that he
composed his Disquisitiones. This wide-ranging work began with a
discussion of magic in general before focusing on demonic magic
and witchcraft. Del Rio also included a discussion of harmful sor-
cery, or maleficium, and a section of instructions to judges on how
they should handle cases of witchcraft, as well as discussing sub-
jects such as prophecy, fortune telling and divination, and the role
of priestly confessors in dealing with these activities. In many ways
the most comprehensive learned treatise on witchcraft in the early-
modern period, the Disquisitiones was also extremely popular, sur-
passing such works as the Malleus maleficarum and Nicholas
Rémy’s Daemonolatreiae.
DEMONOLOGY. Referring to the scholarly study of demons and the
devil, demonology has always existed in Christianity as a counterpart
to theology, the study of God. As early as the second century C .E.,
Christian monks in the deserts of Egypt were writing about the nature
of demons, which they thought were assailing them constantly. The
early church fathers were also demonologists, and the great Augus-
tine of Hippo wrote extensively about the nature of demons in some
of his major works, including De divinatione daemonum (On the
Divination of Demons), and sections of The City of God. After late
antiquity, few major works were written about demons until about the
12th century when the study of demons began to revive as part of the
general revitalization of education and intellectual life in Europe
known as the “Renaissance of the 12th Century.” In the 13th century,
the important medieval theologian Thomas Aquinas discussed the
nature and powers of demons in several of his works.
DEMONOLOGY • 35

Throughout the period of major witch-hunting in Europe, from
the 15th to the 17th centuries, witches were believed to have entered
into pacts with the devil and to work their harmful sorcery, or mal-
eficium, through the power of demons. Thus virtually every treatise
on witchcraft was really a treatise on demonology, or at least con-
tained large sections of demonological material. The knowledge, or
supposed knowledge, about the nature, variety, and number of
demons was refined as never before. As fallen angels, the demons
were thought to retain their rank respective to one another based on
the order of angels in heaven (in descending order: seraphim, cheru-
bim, thrones, dominions, principalities, powers, virtues, archangels,
and angels). Lucifer, the devil, was the prince of all demons. Chief
demons under him included Asmodeus, Astaroth, Baal, Beelzebub,
Belial, and Leviathan. These demons were derived principally from
the Bible and had generally been pagan deities worshiped by tribes
and nations encountered by the ancient Israelites. Christian authori-
ties considered all such pagan gods to be demons.
Demonologists spent a great deal of effort calculating the number
of demons, which was known from the Bible to be “legion.” In the
15th century, Alfonso de Spina estimated that one third of all the an-
gels in heaven had sided with Lucifer when he fell, and by various
calculations he determined this number to be 133,306,668 demons.
Other figures were based on the association of the number six with
the devil. In the 16th century, one authority determined that there
were 66 princes in hell commanding 6,660,000 demons. Johann
Weyer, who was actually skeptical about many aspects of witch-
craft, calculated that there were 1,111 legions in hell, each with 6,666
demons, for a total of 7,405,926 demons commanded by 72 princes.
DEMONS. As evil spirits that could be commanded by humans,
demons were essential to witchcraft as conceived in Christian Eu-
rope in the medieval and early-modern periods, since it was through
the agency of demons that witches were believed to perform their
harmful sorcery, or maleficium. In exchange for the ability to com-
mand demons, witches were thought to have offered worship to the
demons or to the devil himself. Witches thus became agents of pure
evil in their own right, and most Christian authorities, both ecclesi-
astical and secular, believed they posed a dire threat to society and
36 • DEMONS

needed to be eradicated at all costs. The demonic and ultimately dia-
bolical nature of the evil entailed in witchcraft necessitated and justi-
fied the extreme measures used in witch-hunting.
Most, if not all, pre-modern human cultures have believed in the
existence of powerful spirits that could be controlled by human be-
ings for magical purposes. In ancient Greece, such creatures were
known as daimones. These creatures were not necessarily evil, how-
ever, but might have good, evil, or even ambivalent intentions toward
human beings. Ancient Judaism also had a complex system of de-
monology that distinguished between good and evil spirits, and this
system continued to inform Jewish Kabbalah throughout the me-
dieval and early-modern periods. As Christianity developed, how-
ever, demonology developed into a far more rigid system, based
largely on the more fully articulated Christian conception of the devil
as the one great opponent of God and source of all evil in the world.
All demons became associated with the fallen angels who rebelled
with Satan and were cast out of heaven. Christian demons, therefore,
were entirely evil, and humans who became involved with them in
any way were believed to be evil as well.
In the early fifth century, the great church father Augustine of
Hippo defined the essential nature of the world as being one of con-
flict between the forces of good, represented by the Christian church,
and the forces of evil, led by Satan and his demons. He defined the
notion of the demonic pact that magicians were believed to make
with the demons they sought to control. Seeking to corrupt humans,
these demons offered their services only in exchange for worship.
Augustine’s basic notion of demonic power and the demonic pact un-
derlying much magical activity remained in force for the remainder
of the Middle Ages and into the early-modern period.
DEVIL. In Christian cosmology, the devil represents the supreme force
of evil in the universe. The concept of the devil actually developed as
a composite of several figures from the Hebrew Bible, including the
serpent that tempted Eve in the Garden of Eden, Lucifer, the rebel-
lious angel who was cast out of heaven, and Satan, who appears in
the Book of Job. The Greek diabolos, meaning tempter or deceiver,
is a translation of the Hebrew Satan. In ancient Judaism, none of
these figures represented a supreme force of evil, however. Only in
DEVIL • 37

the Christian New Testament does the devil begin to appear as the
principal opponent of God and humankind, especially in the Book of
Revelation, where the renewed war between God and the devil at the
end of time is described. Eventually, Christian authorities became
convinced that witches, whom they had long believed performed
their harmful sorcery through the agency of demons, worshiped the
devil, who would preside over the witches’ sabbath. Believing that
witches had sold their souls to the devil and become his servants in
the world allowed Christian authorities, both ecclesiastical and secu-
lar, to justify the extreme measures taken against witches.
Although it is entirely probable that at least some people accused
of witchcraft during the period of the witch-hunts did in fact prac-
tice some form of sorcery, and a few of these people may even have
worshiped the devil and believed that they gained power from him,
there is no evidence that any large cults of devil-worshiping sorcer-
ers ever really existed in Europe. Likewise, some people continue to
accuse practitioners of modern witchcraft, or Wicca, of worshiping
the devil. Modern witches are in fact neo-pagans who do not adhere
to any elements of Christian belief. Even groups that practice mod-
ern Satanism do not really worship the devil in the Christian sense.
DEVIL’S MARK. During the period of the witch-hunts, many author-
ities believed that the devil marked all witches as a sign of their ser-
vice to him. This mark could take many forms, and in practice once a
person became suspected of witchcraft almost any blemish, scar, or
bodily mark might serve as evidence. Witches were routinely searched
for such marks when they were arrested and brought to trial, through
a procedure known as pricking. The devil’s mark should not be con-
fused with the witch’s mark, which was believed to be the spot on the
flesh where witches would suckle their demonic familiars.
DIABOLISM. Witchcraft as conceived in the Christian, European
context during most of the medieval and early-modern periods, and
certainly during the age of the most intense witch-hunting during the
15th, 16th, and 17th centuries, was comprised of two essential ele-
ments: the practice of harmful sorcery, or maleficium, and a range
of activities that focused on the supposed worship of the devil and
supplication of demons entailed in the performance of that sorcery.
38 • DEVIL’S MARK

These latter elements are often referred to collectively in modern
scholarship as diabolism.
Essential to the diabolical aspect of witchcraft was the basic belief,
firmly held by most Christian authorities at least since the time of the
great church father Augustine in the fifth century, that most if not all
forms of sorcery relied on demonic agency, and that this entailed a
heretical pact made between the demon and the human sorcerer. The
sorcerer would offer or promise to offer the demon certain signs of
worship in exchange for which the demon would perform certain
acts. Although notions of demonic pacts are rooted in early Chris-
tianity, however, the linkage of this concept to the performance of
acts of maleficium was slow to develop. Even in the late 14th century,
the inquisitor Nicolau Eymeric had to prove that demonic sorcery
necessarily entailed idolatry and the worship of demons. Thereafter,
however, the full range of diabolism evident in later witchcraft
quickly developed, and by the early 15th century the stereotype was
already fairly complete.
Witches, in addition to simply entering into pacts with certain
demons or offering them worship in exchange for magical power,
were believed to have entered into complete apostasy from the true
faith and to have surrendered their souls to the devil himself. They
were members of an organized, conspiratorial, satanic cult, and gath-
ered regularly at secret, nocturnal gatherings known as witches’ sab-
baths, where they would worship the devil, desecrate the cross, Eu-
charist, and other holy objects, and perform other abominable acts,
such as killing and cannibalizing babies and small children, and en-
gaging in sexual orgies with each other, with various demons, and
with the devil.
DIANA, GODDESS. A pagan goddess of the moon and the hunt, Di-
ana is the Roman incarnation of the Greek Artemis. As a lunar god-
dess, she was associated even in ancient times with secret, nocturnal
activities. Particularly as part of a trio of lunar goddesses including
Selene and Hecate, Diana was sometimes associated with dark magic
and witchcraft.
As Europe became Christian, Diana, as with all pagan gods and
goddesses, came to be regarded as a demon, at least by ecclesiastical
authorities. In the early Middle Ages, a belief developed that Diana
DIANA, GODDESS • 39

led large groups of women on nocturnal journeys through the night
sky. This belief seems based not in any element of traditional mythol-
ogy surrounding Diana, however, but on the Germanic notion of the
Wild Hunt, a band of ghosts or spirits who would haunt the coun-
tryside at night, destroying and killing as they went. The leader of the
hunt was most commonly a female spirit named Berta or Holda, but
was typically translated as Diana (also sometimes Herodias) by ec-
clesiastical authorities when they wrote in Latin. The most famous
image of Diana leading a group of women on a nocturnal flight is
contained in the 10th century canon Episcopi, and such ideas clearly
influenced the later development of ideas of night flight and the
witches’ sabbath.
In modern witchcraft, or Wicca, Diana remains an important fig-
ure. Early in the 20th century, Margaret Murray used the long as-
sociation of Diana with witchcraft to claim, without any real evi-
dence, that historical witchcraft was in fact a direct survival of
ancient paganism long into the Christian era. Most Wiccans today
recognize that Murray’s theories are groundless and maintain that
Wicca is, at most, a creative revival of certain pre-Christian religious
beliefs, and in no way a direct surviving remnant of such religions.
However, they still revere Diana as an important pagan goddess. As
a lunar deity, she continues to be associated with magic; as a virgin
goddess and goddess of the hunt, she is an archetype for the strong
feminist and naturalist elements in modern witchcraft.
DIVINATION. Referring to the practice of revealing hidden knowl-
edge or foretelling the future by magical means, divination is one of
the most common forms of sorcery around the world and throughout
human history. The English word sorcery in fact derives from the
Latin sortilegium, meaning fortune telling or divination, specifically
by casting lots. This became the French sorcellerie, which meant
both sorcery and, eventually, demonic witchcraft. In the ancient
world, although the practice of divination was widespread, diviners
were often viewed with suspicion, either because they were thought
to be charlatans, or, if genuine, because they were thought to traffic
with evil forces. The marginal status of divination in the ancient
world is well illustrated in the biblical story of King Saul, who ex-
pelled sorcerers and diviners from his kingdom, but then felt com-
40 • DIVINATION

pelled to consult the Witch of Endor (actually a seer rather than a
maleficent witch) before a crucial battle with the Philistines.
For Christian authorities in medieval and early-modern Europe,
divination was a crime because, like many other forms of magic, it
was thought to involve the invocation of demons. In addition, at-
tempting to foretell the future was seen as an affront against the
power of God, who alone could know such things. Nevertheless, div-
ination remained common and was widely practiced by professional
cunning men and women across Europe. Such people were often
viewed with suspicion by authorities and could become targets for
accusations of witchcraft. However, in most cases the penalties for
simple divination were not as severe as for actual harmful sorcery, or
maleficium. The practice of divination, of course, extends long after
the main period of witch-hunting ended in Europe, and even today
the wide array of horoscopes, tarot readings, and other means of div-
ination attest to the continued practice of what might be the most
common and enduring form of magical activity in history.
– E –
EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN. Widespread persecution
of witchcraft began significantly later in all the lands of Eastern Eu-
rope (primarily Poland, Hungary, and Russia) than in the West. The
intensity of witch-hunting, however, varied considerably from re-
gion to region. In general, those lands in close proximity to the Ger-
man Empire experienced the severest witch-hunts, most closely re-
sembling the Western model. On the other hand, lands that adhered
to Eastern Orthodox Christianity, as opposed to Roman Catholicism,
experienced significantly less witch-hunting activity.
The Kingdom of Poland experienced by far the most severe witch-
hunts in the East. As many as 10,000 executions might ultimately
have taken place in Polish lands. However, the hunts began signifi-
cantly later there than in Western Europe. Large-scale persecution in
Poland did not begin until after 1650, and the period of the most in-
tense hunts was between 1675 and 1725, with the largest trials taking
place in the 18th century. In general, the hunts in Poland followed the
pattern of those in the German Empire. The major factors underlying
EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN • 41

the large number of trials and executions in Poland were the wide-
spread acceptance of the full stereotype of witchcraft, linking simple
harmful sorcery, or maleficium, with intense diabolism, the relative
lack of centralized judicial control (which, when present, tended to
keep down the number of convictions and the severity of punishment
in witch trials), and the widespread use of torture.
Given Poland’s proximity to and close connections with German-
speaking lands, it is not surprising that the Polish hunts followed a
German model, or that the hunts were most severe in the western re-
gions of the country nearest to German territories and with a large
German-speaking population. The problem comes in explaining why
the Polish hunts began so late. From 1655 to 1660, the first northern
war between Sweden and Russia ravaged the country, producing se-
vere social and economic disruption and dislocation, which in turn
may have led to an increase in concern over witchcraft. In addition,
after 1648, the Catholic majority in Poland became increasingly in-
tolerant of Protestantism, and this heightened religious tension may
have contributed to a fear of witches. Finally, only in the second half
of the 17th century did the secular courts in Poland begin to claim ju-
risdiction in cases of witchcraft instead of ecclesiastical courts, which
generally tended to be less ruthless in their prosecutions.
Hungary, a state almost equal to Poland in population, experienced
significantly fewer trials and well under 1,000 executions. As in
Poland, the trials only really began in the second half of the 17th cen-
tury, and were most severe in the early 18th. Witchcraft accusations
were often colored by elements of particular Hungarian folklore, par-
ticularly the figure of the táltos. These were magicians specializing,
in particular, in forms of magical healing, and who also engaged in a
form of shamanism, entering trances to encounter and combat forces
in the spirit world. Moreover, there is evidence that the decline in tri-
als for witchcraft in the 18th century, imposed from above by the em-
press Maria Theresa’s enlightened legislation, was met by a rise in
beliefs about vampires and vampirism. Vampires provided an alter-
nate supernatural explanation for misfortune when witchcraft was no
longer available.
With perhaps less than 100 known executions, Russia had almost
no witch craze to speak of. What hunts there were came late, after the
middle of the 17th century, as elsewhere in Eastern Europe. The most
42 • EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN

obvious reason for this delay in the rise of major witch trials was that
only in the middle of the 17th century did the tsar move to make
witchcraft a crime for the secular courts, as opposed to ecclesiastical
ones. Witchcraft in Russia was marked by an extremely high number
of men among the accused. Indeed, only slightly over 30 percent of
accused witches in Russia were women, in marked contrast to West-
ern lands. Moreover, Orthodox Russia never accepted the intensely
diabolical image of the witch prevalent among both Catholic and
Protestant authorities in the West. Rather, in Russia, witchcraft re-
mained a crime of simple maleficium.
ENDOR, WITCH OF. A famous witch of the Bible. In 1 Samuel 28,
King Saul, who has exiled all the sorcerers and seers from his king-
dom, nevertheless seeks supernatural guidance before a battle against
the Philistines. Because God will not answer him, he goes to consult
a “witch” (she is actually described as a seer or medium) living in En-
dor. She summons the spirit of the dead prophet Samuel for the king.
Later Christian theologians in the medieval and early-modern pe-
riods generally argued that the Witch of Endor could not really have
summoned the spirit of Samuel. Rather she, like other witches and
supposed seers, actually summoned a demon, who appeared in the
form of Samuel. Thus, she became a model for the involvement of
witches in demonic magic and in the spreading of demonic decep-
tion. Opponents of belief in witchcraft also used the story of the
Witch of Endor, seeing in it an example of simple human deception.
The skeptical author Reginald Scot, for example, in his Discoverie
of Witchcraft, argued that the Witch of Endor had no supernatural
powers of any sort, divine or demonic, but simply fooled Saul with
the aid of a human accomplice.
ENGLAND. See BRITISH ISLES, WITCHCRAFT IN.
ERASMUS, DESIDERIUS (1466–1536). Perhaps the greatest scholar
of his day, and the most important figure in the history of northern
humanism, Erasmus was born in the Netherlands, at Rotterdam, and
studied at the University of Paris, among other places. A great classi-
cal scholar as well as a scholar of the Bible and the early church fa-
thers, especially Saint Jerome, he is not nearly so important a figure
ERASMUS, DESIDERIUS (1466–1536) • 43

in the history of witchcraft as he is in other areas. Like many other
humanists, he was skeptical of many cases of witchcraft. He did not
deny the existence of demons or the devil, nor did he deny their real
power in the world, but he realized that many witch trials were hope-
lessly flawed, that the uncontrolled use of torture and other improper
procedures produced many false confessions, and that many of the
people accused of witchcraft were simple peasants with little chance
of defending themselves. As a textual scholar of the Bible, he also re-
alized that there was no biblical basis for witchcraft as it was con-
ceived in his day.
ERICTHO. A famous witch in classical literature, Erictho appears in
the Roman poet Lucan’s epic poem Pharsalia about the war between
Julius Caesar and Pompey. Unlike some other major sorceresses in
Greco-Roman mythology and literature, such as Circe or Medea,
both of whom are depicted as beautiful, if dangerously powerful,
women, Erictho is a hideous, almost semi-demonic figure. She lives
in Thessaly, a land long associated with sorcery in ancient times. On
the eve of the decisive battle, the son of Pompey comes to consult
with Erictho, asking her to divine the future by summoning the spir-
its of the dead. Lucan describes in great detail how she uses body
parts stolen from graves in her magic. In the later Middle Ages and
early-modern period, the figure of Erictho became a model for the
image of the witch as a hideous old hag.
ERRORES GAZARIORUM. The “Errors of the Gazarii” is a brief but
extremely lurid tract describing the actions of a heretical sect of
witches (gazarius was a common term for heretics at this time).
Written by an anonymous cleric, most likely an inquisitor, probably
in Savoy around the middle of the 1430s, it is among the first writ-
ings to describe witches as being members of a secret, conspiratorial,
satanic cult. Gathering at a sabbath (here termed a “synagogue”), the
witches renounced the Christian faith, worshiped the devil, who usu-
ally appeared in the form of a black cat or other animal, killed and
devoured babies and small children, and engaged in sexual orgies
with each other and with demons. They also performed a variety of
acts of harmful sorcery, or maleficium, including producing poison,
killing and causing infertility, and raising destructive storms.
44 • ERICTHO

Surviving in only two manuscript copies, the Errores exists in two
distinct versions—an earlier and shorter version and a slightly later and
significantly expanded version. The longer version of the tract de-
scribes witches flying on staves, making it one of the earliest sources
to accept as a reality what was to become the stereotypical image of the
night flight of witches. In most other respects, witchcraft as depicted
in the Errores is similar to what is found in other early writings on the
subject by Johannes Nider, Claude Tholosan, Hans Fründ, and
Martin Le Franc. The tract seems to have been associated in some
way with the Council of Basel, and the later version was probably in-
fluenced by early witch trials conducted in the diocese of Lausanne.
EUGENIUS IV, POPE (1383–1447). Eugenius reigned as pope from
1431 until 1447, during a period when the full stereotype of witch-
craft was just beginning to emerge as a clearly defined concept,
when some of the first real witch-hunts were taking place in lands in
and around the western Alps, and when many of the first treatises and
authoritative accounts describing witchcraft were written. He himself
was at least to some extent directly concerned with matters of de-
monic sorcery and witchcraft. In 1434, he issued a letter in which he
briefly discussed magicians performing demonic magic, and in 1437,
he issued a letter to all papal inquisitors in which he declared that
there were many people practicing demonic sorcery throughout
Christendom. Throughout his reign, Eugenius was involved in nearly
constant strife with the Council of Basel, to the extent that the coun-
cil eventually declared Eugenius deposed and appointed the duke of
Savoy, Amadeus VIII, as anti-pope Felix V in his stead. Refusing, ob-
viously, to recognize this deposition, in 1440 Eugenius issued a state-
ment to the council in which he declared that the lands of Savoy were
well known to be full of witches, who were called stregule or stre-
gonos in the vulgar tongue. Eugenius was clearly motivated by his
opposition to the council and Amadeus/Felix, but regardless of this
fact, the lands of Savoy were the location of many early witch trials,
and the pope’s statements might have reflected widely held opinion
about the perceived prevalence of witchcraft in this region.
EVIL EYE. Also known as fascination, the evil eye refers to the power
of witches to effect harm simply through their gaze or the glance of
EVIL EYE • 45

their eyes. This is surely one of the most widespread of all forms of
folk-magic, and the evil power of glances or stares is known in many
world cultures. For example, in Europe alone it exists in France as the
mauvais oeil, in Germany as the böse Blick, and perhaps most fa-
mously in Italy as the mal occhio. The term itself arises from the
Bible, Mark 7:21–22, where Christ states, “from within, out of the
heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,
thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye,
blasphemy, pride, foolishness” (this from the King James’ Version;
the term is oculus malus in the medieval Latin Vulgate).
Drawing on pre-modern scientific thought that the eye saw by
emitting rays rather than receiving them, theories of natural magic
held that the evil eye might work by transmitting harmful intentions
along these rays, thereby affecting the person held in the gaze. De-
monological theories maintained that witches simply signaled to
demons by the glance of their eyes the victims whom they sought to
afflict. Fairly common among folk beliefs was the idea that the evil
eye might be either intentional or unintentional. That is, some
witches might deliberately seek to harm through the glance of their
eyes, but others might be unaware that their gaze contained such
power, or at least be unable to control or deliberately employ such
power. Many forms of amulets and charms were devised for protec-
tion from the evil eye.
EXORCISM. Referring to the casting out of demonic spirits and cur-
ing cases of demonic possession, the practice of exorcism in the
Christian tradition is based on such biblical passages as Luke 9:1
(“Then Jesus called the twelve together and gave them power and au-
thority over all demons”). Very early in the history of Christianity, the
office of exorcist became one of the minor orders of the church. Thus
an exorcism could refer to the formal religious ceremony of casting
out a demon performed by a cleric, and remains to this day an offi-
cial (although little-used and somewhat disreputable) rite of the Ro-
man Catholic Church (Protestant denominations long ago abandoned
the official rite of exorcism). In addition, however, the word exorcism
could be used more generally to describe the act of commanding a
demon, just as other words such as adjuration and conjuration, and
in texts on witchcraft and demonology written throughout the me-
46 • EXORCISM

dieval and early-modern periods the Latin verb exorcizare was often
used almost interchangeably with the verbs adjurare and conjurare.
Taken in this second sense, a legitimate exorcism could be per-
formed by any faithful Christian as a defense against witchcraft or
remedy for bewitchment. Because witches performed all of their
harmful sorcery through the power of demons, afflicted people could
invoke the power of Christ to ward off or overcome the demonic as-
sault. Exorcisms in this sense, as well as the official ecclesiastical
ceremony, were extremely important during the entire period of the
witch-hunts. The official rite of exorcism was often sought as a cure
for demonic possession, which could be brought about by witchcraft
or taken as a sign of bewitchment. Non-clerical witch doctors, folk
magicians, and cunning men and women, however, often also
claimed to wield a religious or at least quasi-religious authority over
demons. Although recognizing the ability of all the faithful, clerical
or not, to call on the name and power of Christ to expel demons, re-
ligious authorities were often suspicious of lay witch doctors. In
many regions, particularly where witch-hunting was especially se-
vere and panic ran high, such people were often accused of being
witches themselves.
EYMERIC, NICOLAU (1320–1399). A Dominican friar and inquisi-
tor in the Kingdom of Aragon, Eymeric wrote his most important
work, the influential inquisitorial manual Directorium inquisitorum
(Directory of Inquisitors), in 1376 while in exile at the papal court in
Avignon. Like the Practica inquisitionis haeretice pravitatis (Prac-
tice of Inquisition into Heretical Depravity) of the inquisitor Bernard
Gui half a century earlier, Eymeric’s treatise was a general handbook
of procedures to be used in conducting an inquisition. As such, it in-
cluded sections on sorcery and demonic invocation. In terms of the
development of learned, clerical thought about magic, however,
Eymeric’s handbook is even more important than Gui’s, for Eymeric
established the basic argument that demonic invocation necessarily
entailed the worship of demons. Thus, all demonic magic was de
facto heretical and subject to the jurisdiction of ecclesiastical courts
and papal inquisitors.
As an inquisitor, Eymeric seems to have been particularly interested
in sorcery and demonic magic. Several years prior to writing his more
EYMERIC, NICOLAU (1320–1399) • 47

general Directorium, he wrote a Tractatus contra daemonum invoca-
tores (Treatise Against Invokers of Demons), which served as a basis
for the sections on sorcery and demonic magic in his later manual.
Eymeric presented long, theological arguments to demonstrate that
demons could not be summoned or commanded for magical purposes
without some form of worship being offered to them. Ultimately, he
argued that simply to invoke a demon for supernatural aid, when a true
Christian should turn in prayer to God, was to show the demon a form
of adoration (latria) due only to God. This amounted to idolatry (idol-
atria), and meant that all demonic magic could be considered a form
of heresy. Eymeric’s arguments formed the basis of the church’s po-
sition against demonic sorcery for the rest of the Middle Ages and into
the early-modern period. Eymeric never discussed witchcraft in his
writings, and clearly was concerned primarily with learned demonic
magic, or necromancy. His argument that all demonic magic in-
volved the worship of demons, however, obviously had important
consequences for the development of the concept of witchcraft and the
persecution of witches in later years.
– F –
FAMILIARS. Various typically lesser demons who were thought to at-
tend witches in some assumed animal form were generally known as
familiar spirits, or more simply as familiars. This aspect of the witch
stereotype is somewhat unique in being more developed in English,
Irish, and Scottish sources than in continental ones. A demonic fa-
miliar might appear in almost any animal form. Toads, owls, rats,
mice, and dogs were all common, but cats were especially associated
with familiar spirits. A witch might be given a familiar by the devil,
or might inherit a familiar from another witch. The demon then at-
tended the witch and performed magical services for her. The witch,
in turn, cared for her familiar much as one would care for a house-
hold pet, which is of course what many supposed familiars in fact
were. In particular, witches were thought to feed their familiars with
their own blood, which the familiar might suck from a small protu-
berance somewhere on the body, the so-called witch’s mark. One of
the earliest examples of a demon resembling a familiar appears in the
48 • FAMILIARS

case of Alice Kyteler. Accused of witchcraft in Ireland in 1324, Al-
ice was supposedly attended regularly by a demon known as Robert
or Robin Artisson, who could appear as cat, a shaggy dog, or an
Ethiopian. Unlike witches with later familiars, Alice would have sex-
ual relations with Robert and would sacrifice animals to him, espe-
cially roosters. Such accusations seem to lie somewhere between the
later concept of the familiar and the worship of demons and sexual
orgies that typified the witches’ sabbath, where demons or Satan
himself would typically preside in the form of a black cat or other an-
imal. See also GOATS.
FASCINATION. See EVIL EYE.
FAUST. Perhaps the most famous story of a human entering into a pact
with Satan is that of Faust. Faust was not a witch but rather the arche-
typical learned magician of the Renaissance period. The legend appears
to have been based on the life of Georg (or, later, Johannes—it is possi-
ble that there were two different men) Faustus, a traveling magician
who seems to have been widely known in southern Germany in the
early 16th century. Stories began to circulate that he had sold his soul to
the devil in exchange for magical knowledge and power. He was sup-
posedly served by a demon named Mephistopheles, who sometimes ac-
companied him as a familiar in the form of a large black dog with fiery
red eyes. Aided by Mephistopheles, Faust pursued worldly pleasure and
arcane knowledge. At the end of Faust’s life, the devil came to claim his
soul, killing him in a terrible manner. The Faust legend circulated
widely in various forms. The first printed “Faustbook” appeared in 1587
in Germany. In England, Christopher Marlowe’s play Dr. Faustus was
published between 1589 and 1592. Perhaps the most famous version of
the legend appeared in the early 19th century in Goethe’s play Faust.
FLADE, DIETRICH (?–1589). Probably the highest-ranking victim
of any witch-hunt in European history, Flade was a prominent citi-
zen of Trier, an archbishopric and also at that time an independent
electoral principality of the German Empire. He was selected by the
prince-archbishop to oppose the spread of Protestantism in the region
and he became head of the secular courts. In 1580, he also became
vice-governor of Trier, and in 1586, he was appointed as rector of the
FLADE, DIETRICH (?–1589) • 49

university there even though he was a layman and not a cleric. In the
1580s, the number of witch trials in Trier began to escalate, appar-
ently because of a period of bad weather, agrarian failures, and eco-
nomic difficulties. At first, the secular courts, under Flade’s direction,
were hesitant and cautious in cases of witchcraft. This, however,
roused the opposition of more zealous witch-hunting authorities, no-
tably the suffragan bishop of Trier, Peter Binsfeld. Eventually, Flade
himself was accused of witchcraft. He fled from Trier in 1588 but
was captured and returned to the city. Put on trial in August of 1589,
he confessed a month later and was executed.
FLYING. See NIGHT FLIGHT.
FRANCE, WITCHCRAFT IN. France was the largest state in Europe,
in terms of population, during the period of the witch-hunts. In all, per-
haps 4,000 people were executed for witchcraft across this large king-
dom. This figure is less than one fifth the number of executions in the
German Empire, however, whose various lands together had approxi-
mately the same sized population. Within France, the most intense
witch-hunting took place in those regions located on the peripheries of
the kingdom and which, more importantly, were resistant to the in-
creasing power of the centralized royal government in Paris; for exam-
ple, the Basque lands in the extreme southwestern portion of the coun-
try. Thus, the history of witchcraft in France fits a basic pattern found
across Europe that the most severe witchcraft panics and the most in-
tense and destructive hunts generally took place in regions of great lo-
cal legal autonomy. Regional courts and justices were more easily
caught up in the local social, economic, or communal tensions that pro-
duced accusations, and often shared in the local panic of a community
that began to feel itself under assault by witches. More centralized
courts, or at least centrally controlled or supervised courts, on the other
hand, could often remain more impartial to local conditions and were
generally more concerned with the proper execution of judicial proce-
dures, the rational collection and evaluation of evidence, and so forth,
all of which tended to dampen the flames of an incipient witch-hunt.
Cases from local French courts could typically be appealed to the re-
gional parlements. In some cases, these bodies proved willing to accept
almost all accusations of witchcraft and thus did little to slow the de-
50 • FLYING

velopment of witch-hunting. In many cases, however, the parlements
overturned local rulings, both stopping the progress of that particular
case and sending a message back to the local courts that rampant witch-
hunting should not be allowed. In particular, the parlement of Paris,
which heard appeals from most of northern France, proved very skep-
tical and cautious in matters of witchcraft as in matters of heresy and
crimes of religious belief in general. To the extent that this central par-
lement set standards for others across the nation, it played a significant
role in holding down trials for witchcraft in France.
In the later 17th century, the right to try cases of witchcraft with-
out outside oversight or interference was one of the many specific is-
sues on which various regional authorities resisted the ever-growing
power of King Louis XIV and his centralized government. It is per-
haps not surprising that in 1682, Louis, seeking to undermine an area
of local resistance to the authority of the crown, issued an edict that
reclassified the practice of magic and sorcery as a mere superstition
and not a capital offence, thereby effectively bringing legal witch-
hunting to an end in France.
FRÜND, HANS (ca. 1400–1468). A civic chronicler from Lucerne,
Hans Fründ was the author of a brief report on witchcraft supposedly
taking place in the Alpine region of Valais in the diocese of Sion. The
activities he described were set in the year 1428, and so his is one of
the earliest reports of full-fledged witchcraft in European history. His
account may in fact be closer to actual witch-beliefs and perhaps even
activity than those of other early authorities, most of whom were cler-
ics and whose understanding of witchcraft was colored by learned di-
abolism. Fründ was a layman, although obviously educated. His ac-
count of witchcraft contained less diabolism and more of a focus on
simple maleficium, that is, harmful sorcery. Nevertheless, he did de-
scribe a sect of witches and something like a witches’ sabbath, in-
cluding cannibalism, sexual orgies, and the worship of demons. His
report is in many ways notably similar to other early accounts of
witchcraft from the early 15th century, such as those by Johannes
Nider and Claude Tholosan, and that contained in the anonymous
Errores Gazariorum (Errors of the Gazarii), thus indicating, perhaps,
how quickly a basic understanding of witchcraft became widespread
among various authorities in the course of the 1420s and 1430s.
FRÜND, HANS (CA. 1400–1468) • 51

– G –
GARDNER, GERALD (1884–1964). The founder of modern witch-
craft, or Wicca, Gardner claimed that he had been initiated into a
coven of hereditary witches in England, a group that supposedly fol-
lowed practices that had been passed down from the time of histori-
cal witchcraft during the period of the great witch-hunts and even
before. In fact, Gardner claimed that witchcraft actually represented
an ancient, pre-Christian fertility religion. In a deliberate attempt to
revive this religion, he published Witchcraft Today in 1954, and thus
launched the movement that would evolve into modern Wicca.
Gardner was born into a well-off family near Liverpool, England.
He later moved to East Asia, where he worked for many years in Cey-
lon (now Sri Lanka), Borneo, and Malaysia. He became deeply in-
volved in the study of eastern religions and occultism. In 1936, he re-
tired from his position as a colonial civil servant for the British
government and returned to England, where he continued to pursue
his interest in esoteric religions and the occult. He became an ama-
teur archeologist, both in Britain and in the Middle East, and joined
the Folklore Society, where he collaborated with Margaret Murray
on a paper on historical witchcraft. In 1938, while living in Hamp-
shire, he joined the Fellowship of Crotona, a mystical, quasi-Masonic
group. Within this group, supposedly, was a secret inner circle whose
members styled themselves as hereditary witches. Gardner claimed
that he was initiated into this group in 1939. An 18th-century statute
made it a crime in England to claim to be a witch, and this law was
only repealed in 1951. At that point, Gardner began to go public with
his supposed discovery of an ancient religion. His first book, Witch-
craft Today, aroused tremendous interest and immediately made him
a celebrity. Over the next few years, he and his most important disci-
ple, Doreen Valiente, wrote several works on the nature and rituals
of modern witchcraft. These writings became the basis for what be-
came known as the Gardnerian tradition of witchcraft. The principal
text of the rituals of witchcraft is the so-called Book of Shadows, of
which Gardner produced several versions.
Although Gardner’s writings (some of the most important of which
were collaborations with Valiente) provided the basis for modern
witchcraft, other traditions soon began to emerge. Valiente herself
52 • GARDNER, GERALD (1884–1964)

formed a second coven, and by 1957 this group had broken with Gard-
ner, upset over the level of publicity and media attention that he con-
tinually sought. Other groups followed. In the 1960s and 1970s, the
practice of witchcraft had grown significantly, and many different, in-
dependent Wiccan groups came into existence in both Europe and
North America. Gardner’s notion, based on the theories of Margaret
Murray, that modern witchcraft was a direct survival of an ancient fer-
tility religion, has been thoroughly disproved and is no longer accepted
by many Wiccans today. The development of Wicca has been influ-
enced by other factors, above all feminist ideologies, and other texts,
such as Starhawk’s The Spiral Dance, have become as important, if
not more so, than Gardner’s original Witchcraft Today. Nevertheless,
all branches of modern witchcraft owe something to Gerald Gardner.
GEILER VON KAISERSBERG, JOHANN (1445–1510). A theolo-
gian who had studied at both Freiburg and Basel, Johann Geiler von
Kaisersberg served as a preacher in the cathedral at Strasbourg be-
ginning in 1478. His Die Emeis (The Ants) is a collection of Lenten
sermons delivered in 1508. Twenty-six of these sermons deal with
witchcraft, and another treats the subject of lycanthropy, the trans-
formation of people into werewolves. Intended for a wide audience,
De emeis was one of the first major works on witchcraft to appear in
the German vernacular.
GEOGRAPHY OF WITCH-HUNTING. See AFRICAN WITCH-
CRAFT; BRITISH ISLES, WITCHCRAFT IN; COLONIAL AMER-
ICA, WITCHCRAFT IN; EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN;
FRANCE, WITCHCRAFT IN; GERMAN EMPIRE, WITCHCRAFT
IN; SCANDINAVIA, WITCHCRAFT IN; SOUTHERN EUROPE,
WITCHCRAFT IN; SWITZERLAND, WITCHCRAFT IN.
GERMAN EMPIRE, WITCHCRAFT IN. During the years of the
great witch-hunts in Europe, the lands of the German Empire were
without doubt the heartland of the witch craze. At the beginning of
the period of the major witch trials in the 15th and 16th centuries, the
Empire was comprised not only of the German states of central Eu-
rope, but also the Netherlands, Lorraine, Franche Comté, the Swiss
Confederation, Austria, Bohemia, Silesia, and even parts of northern
GERMAN EMPIRE, WITCHCRAFT IN • 53

Italy. In the course of the period of the witch-hunts, the Empire lost
its Swiss territories, as well as the northern Netherlands, and these
changing boundaries mean that statistics can vary. The inclusion of
Switzerland, in particular, would add considerably to the number of
trials and executions. Limited just to those lands that remained within
the Empire for this entire period, however, the best estimates place
the number of executions for witchcraft near 30,000, or still roughly
half of all the executions that took place throughout Europe.
Perhaps the most significant factor behind the extremely high
number of executions that took place in German lands was the fact
that the German Empire as a whole was politically very weak and
disunited. In fact, the Empire was a loose confederation of numerous
kingdoms, principalities, duchies, and other smaller territories, each
with its own jurisdiction and legal authority. In theory, the entire Em-
pire was governed by the Carolina law code, introduced in 1532, but
in practice, local authorities exercised nearly total autonomy. This is
significant for the prosecution of witchcraft because it has been
shown that witch-hunting was generally more severe in regions of
limited centralized bureaucracy and legal control. Local authorities,
if allowed to have jurisdiction, were far more likely to be concerned
about witchcraft and to allow a few accusations to turn into a major
hunt. Centralized bureaucracies, on the other hand, were more re-
moved from the immediate situation, and thus the immediate fear and
tension out of which accusations arose, and also tended to be more
concerned with matters of proper procedure, above all the limitation
of torture, thereby making unambiguous convictions more difficult
to achieve.
The contrast between smaller regions and legal jurisdictions and
larger states with centralized and highly bureaucratized legal systems
is born out by the distribution of witch-hunting within German lands.
In general, the most severe hunts took place in the states of the south-
ern and western parts of the Empire, where political fragmentation
was highest. In the north and east, where the German states tended to
be larger and to have more centralized bureaucracies and legal struc-
tures, as well as in the large southeastern state of Bavaria, a propor-
tionally smaller number of witches (relative to the larger populations
of these sizeable lands) was tried, and fewer of those tried were exe-
cuted. The same pattern is also evident for the large territories of Aus-
54 • GERMAN EMPIRE, WITCHCRAFT IN

tria and Bohemia, both part of the Empire but ruled directly by the
Habsburg dynasty and thus subject to centralized imperial control un-
like the other German territories. Only about 1,000 witches were ex-
ecuted in each of these two large states, which combined had a pop-
ulation of around 4,000,000 people, during the entire period of the
witch-hunts.
GERSON, JEAN (1363–1429). A prominent late-medieval theologian
and chancellor of the university at Paris, Gerson wrote several works
condemning sorcery and superstition, including treatises De proba-
tione spirituum (On Testing Spirits) and De erroribus circa artem
magicam (On Errors in the Magic Art). He was only one of several
theologians in the late 14th and early 15th centuries to address such
issues with greater concern than clerical authorities had typically ex-
hibited earlier. Although he wrote before the concept of diabolic
witchcraft had fully developed, his concerns indicate one possible
basis for this subsequent development.
GIFFORD, GEORGE (?–1620). A preacher at Maldon in Essex,
where some of the most intense witch-hunts of the British Isles took
place in the late 16th century, Gifford wrote two important treatises
on witchcraft, Discourse of the Subtle Practices of Devils by Witches
and Sorcerers (1587) and A Dialogue Concerning Witches and Witch-
crafts (1593). In these works, he adopted a position of moderate
skepticism toward witchcraft. That is, Gifford felt that the devil was
the true enemy of Christian society, and that the devil was powerful
enough to work his evil in the world without the cooperation of hu-
man witches. Focusing too much on human witches, he felt, dis-
tracted authorities’ attention from the real source of evil in the world.
Nevertheless, Gifford did support the execution of witches for traf-
ficking with demons and the devil.
GILLES DE RAIS (1404–1440). A French nobleman and eventually
Marshal of France, Gilles de Rais rose to prominence for his military
accomplishments during the course of the Hundred Years War. A
companion of Joan of Arc, he was later tried and executed on
charges of heresy and murder. Like Joan, he is often regarded as hav-
ing been executed for witchcraft, although in reality he was never
GILLES DE RAIS (1404–1440) • 55

accused of this crime, and even the charges of demonic magic made
against him were somewhat tangential to his ultimate conviction.
Having become extremely powerful in the course of the war, Gilles
made many political enemies. He also incurred significant debts in
the course of the 1430s, and was forced to begin selling off his land.
His enemies seem to have conspired against him largely because if he
were convicted of heresy, they could confiscate rather than purchase
his lands. Gilles was brought up on a number of particularly terrible
and graphic charges. Before an ecclesiastical court, he stood accused
of performing alchemy and demonic magic, of summoning and wor-
shiping demons, making pacts with them, and sacrificing children
to them. He was also tried before a secular judge for the sexual mur-
der of over 100 children.
By the time of his trials, Gilles had clearly developed a dark repu-
tation, which his enemies were able to exploit. Although most of the
charges against him were clearly fabricated by his political oppo-
nents, he may well have been a murderous pedophile, and it is cer-
tainly possible that he turned to alchemy or even darker magics in an
attempt to alleviate his financial problems. Ultimately, he confessed
to practicing alchemy and murdering children. His case, however,
was hardly one of typical witchcraft.
GLANVILL, JOSEPH (1636–1680). The chaplain of King Charles II
of England, Glanvill attempted to prove the existence of witchcraft
and other supernatural and occult phenomenan in his Saducismus tri-
umphatus (Sadducism Overcome). He felt that those who were skep-
tical of such phenomena were merely trying to disguise their own
atheism, since to deny witchcraft one had to deny the reality of the
devil’s power, and ultimately, for Glanvill, this meant denying the
power of God as well. His work became popular not so much for its
learned reasoning as for its collection of colorful stories and exam-
ples of witchcraft.
GOATS. After cats, goats were the animals most typically associated
with witchcraft in medieval and early-modern Europe. Demonic fa-
miliars might take the form of a goat in order to serve a witch, but
the most common association of goats with witchcraft occurred in
images of the witches’ sabbath. Here, a demon or the devil himself
56 • GLANVILL, JOSEPH (1636–1680)

was typically thought to preside over the assembly of witches, often
in the form of a goat. Witches had to kneel before this animal, wor-
ship it, and often give the osculum infame, the obscene kiss, to the
creature’s hindquarters. This image derived from medieval stereo-
types of heresy and of heretics, who were often thought to worship
demons in the form of goats, and ultimately from pagan worship of
certain horned, semi-animalistic deities, such as a Greco-Roman Pan
or Celtic Cernunnos. Both were fertility gods, and the goat has long
been a symbol of fertility and especially masculine virility. This no-
tion is preserved in modern witchcraft, or Wicca, in which a Horned
God is worshiped as the male counterpart and consort of the God-
dess. The goat, and especially the goat-headed image of the devil
known as Baphomet, also remains a prominent symbol among prac-
titioners of modern Satanism.
GODDESS, THE. In modern witchcraft, or Wicca, the Goddess is the
primary deity. She is the companion of, and is generally seen as su-
perior to, the God or Horned God, who represents the male aspect of
divinity. Although a supreme deity, the Goddess is above all a nature
and fertility deity. She is regarded as being the Earth itself and em-
bodies all creative and productive forces, particularly magic. She is
in some ways a conglomeration of all early pagan female mother-
deities.
The worship of powerful fertility goddesses is ancient and seems
to have existed in almost all human cultures. Modern witches iden-
tify the Goddess with such ancient female fertility deities and
mother-goddesses as the Sumerian Inanna, Babylonian Ishtar, Egypt-
ian Isis, Phoenician Astarte, and Greco-Roman Demeter. Also partic-
ularly associated with the Goddess are the Greco-Roman triad of
moon-goddesses Diana (Artemis), Selene, and Hecate, all of whom,
especially Hecate, were associated with magic in classical times. In-
nana, Ishtar, Isis, and Asarte were also all lunar deities, associated
with magic and frequently the underworld.
GREGORY IX, POPE (ca. 1170–1241). Reigning as pope from 1227
to 1241, in 1233 Gregory issued the decretal letter Vox in Rama (A
Voice in Rama) to the archbishop of Mainz and bishop of Hildesheim,
discussing certain supposed practices attributed to heretics in the
GREGORY IX, POPE (CA. 1170–1241) • 57

Rhineland. In particular, Gregory described a heretical gathering
presided over by a demon in the shape of a giant toad. New members
of this heretical sect had to kiss this creature, and also a pallid man
whose kiss was as cold as ice. The heretics then feasted until a large
cat appeared, which the heretics also had to kiss on its hindquarters,
and then they engaged in a sexual orgy. Although there is no mention
of sorcery in the letter, this description clearly served as a basis for
later accounts of the witches’ sabbath.
GRILLANDUS, PAULUS (late 15th–16th century). A papal judge
who presided over several witch trials around Rome in the early 16th
century, Grillandus wrote a Tractatus de haereticis et sortilegiis
(Treatise on Heretics and Witches) around 1525. It was frequently
printed, and, after the Malleus maleficarum, was one of the most
important and influential treatises on witchcraft written prior to the
major rise of witch-hunting in the later 16th century.
GUAZZO, FRANCESCO MARIA (?–early 17th century). An Ital-
ian friar of the order of Saint Ambrose, Guazzo was a known expert
on witchcraft and possession. In 1605, he was summoned to the
Rhineland by the duke of Cleves to assist in a case of witchcraft.
This, however, seems to have been Guazzo’s only practical experi-
ence with witch-hunting. Returning to Italy, he wrote what became
one of the standard treatises on witchcraft, Compendium maleficarum
(Handbook of Witches), at the request of the archbishop of Milan.
The work was completed in 1608. The Compendium was an ency-
clopedic account that drew to some extent on Guazzo’s personal ex-
perience, but was based mainly on earlier Catholic literature on
witchcraft, including the treatises by Johannes Nider and Heinrich
Kramer, as well as on the work of such recent authorities as
Nicholas Rémy and Martin Del Rio. Guazzo’s treatise became pop-
ular more because of its completeness than its originality. In Italy, it
became the standard source on witchcraft for the remainder of the pe-
riod of the witch-hunts.
GUI, BERNARD (1261–1331). A Dominican friar and papal inquisitor
in the southern French region of Languedoc, Gui is most well known
as the author of one of the first major inquisitorial manuals, Practica
58 • GRILLANDUS, PAULUS (LATE 15TH–16TH CENTURY)

inquisitionis haereticae pravitatis (Practice of Inquisition into Hereti-
cal Depravity), completed by 1324. In this work, Gui included some
sections on sorcery and divination, as well as on clearly learned de-
monic magic, or necromancy. He never described diabolic witch-
craft per se, but his writings were an important basis for later in-
quisitorial thought in this area.
Born in Limousin, Gui entered the Dominican order in 1279. He
studied theology at Montpellier and then served as prior of several
Dominican convents in Languedoc until 1307, when he was ap-
pointed a papal inquisitor and began operating from Toulouse. He re-
mained in this office until 1324, when he became bishop of Lodève.
Throughout his tenure as an inquisitor, Gui seems never to have con-
ducted an inquisition into a case of sorcery personally. Nevertheless,
sorcery was becoming a concern for religious authorities in southern
France at this time. In 1320, Pope John XXII ordered the inquisitors
of Toulouse and Carcassonne to take action against those who in-
voked or worshiped demons as a part of magical ceremonies. In his
Practica, Gui included several sections of procedures to be used
specifically against clerics who engaged in demonic invocation, in-
cluding a long description of complex, necromantic ritual magic. He
also included a section on sorcery and divination generally. While
Gui clearly assumed all such magic was demonic in nature, he actu-
ally described acts quite different from the overtly demonic practices
of learned magic. Instead, he discussed what seems to be a much
more common sort of magic, aimed at healing, discovering thefts, lo-
cating lost objects, or inspiring love, and performed via everyday ob-
jects and simple rituals. Gui’s association of such common magic
with demonic invocation was fundamental for the later prosecution of
sorcery and eventually witchcraft in inquisitorial courts.
– H –
HALE, MATTHEW (1609–1676). An English judge, and later Chief
Justice of the King’s Bench, Hale is most well known for conducting the
trial of two witches in Bury Saint Edmunds in 1662. In this notorious
case, which began when several children exhibited signs of bewitch-
ment and accused two old women, he allowed hearsay and unsupported
HALE, MATTHEW (1609–1676) • 59

spectral evidence, and even refused to give credence to clear evidence
of fraud and perjury on the part of some of the children, all in his zeal
to attain convictions. Later, as Chief Justice, he was able to help set the
tone for the conduct of witch trials across England. When accusations
of witchcraft arose in Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692, again from the
testimony of children, the noted Boston minister Cotton Mather used
Hale’s conduct of the Bury Saint Edmunds trial as a model.
HALLOWEEN. The period around the present date of Halloween
has long carried supernatural significance and has often been asso-
ciated with death and the spirits of the dead. The Celtic tribes of Eu-
rope celebrated the feast of Samhain, their new year and hence a
festival associated with death and rebirth, on November 1. On the
night before this festival, the boundaries separating the living and
the dead were believed to be particularly weak. The Romans, who
by 43 C . E . had conquered most Celtic territory in Western Europe,
combined two of their own holidays with the Celtic Samhain: the
feast of Feralia, which commemorated the dead, and the feast of
Pomona, goddess of apples and other fruits, which celebrated fer-
tility and rebirth. In the seventh century, Pope Boniface IV, seeking
to Christianize these pagan holidays and incorporate them into the
church’s liturgical calendar, declared November 1 to be All Saints’
Day, to honor Christian saints and martyrs. Later, around the year
1000, the church declared November 2 to be All Souls’ Day, com-
memorating all the Christian dead. All Saints’ Day was also known
as All Hallows, and so the night before became Hallows Eve and
eventually Halloween.
Such modern Halloween traditions as trick-or-treating probably
have their roots in the medieval celebration of All Souls’ Day, when
people would give pastries and other food to the poor, and eventu-
ally to children, in exchange for their promise to pray for the souls
of the gift-givers’ dead relatives. Even older was the tradition of
leaving offerings of food and wine for the spirits of the dead thought
to roam free on this night. The custom of dressing up in costumes
also extends far into the past, when people sought to disguise them-
selves from wandering spirits. However, Halloween was not partic-
ularly associated with witches during the medieval or early-modern
periods. Rather, if any one night was thought to be a time of partic-
60 • HALLOWEEN

ular celebration and revelry for witches, it was Walpurgisnacht
(April 30).
In modern times, and especially in the United States, certain reli-
gious groups have tired to associate Halloween with witchcraft and
Satanism. This might find its historical roots in colonial times, when
the Puritan settlers of New England opposed the celebration of Hal-
loween on moral grounds (the holiday was more widely celebrated in
the southern colonies). In the later 20th century, Halloween has fi-
nally become a real witches’ holiday, as practitioners of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca, as well as practitioners of other forms of neo-
paganism have revived the celebration of the Celtic Samhain.
HAND OF GLORY. In medieval and early-modern sources, witches
were often described as taking the limbs of corpses, and especially
their hands, for magical purposes. The Hand of Glory was one par-
ticular use to which such a limb could be put. The hand of a hanged
murderer was removed from the corpse, often while it still hung on
the gallows, then pickled and dried. It was then used to hold candles
or the fingers themselves could be lighted. Supposedly, the hand had
the power to immobilize or incapacitate anyone within a house, and
was often employed by thieves.
HARTLIEB, JOHANN (ca. 1410–1468). Court physician to Duke Al-
brecht II of Bavaria, Hartlieb was one of the first authorities to write
on witchcraft in a vernacular language. Around 1456, he published
his Buch aller verbotenen Kunst (Book of All Forbidden Art). He was
very credulous, and accepted, for example, the full reality of night
flight and the witches’ sabbath, opposing the tradition derived from
the canon Episcopi that these were only demonically inspired illu-
sions.
HEALING, MAGICAL. Curing diseases and healing injuries have
historically always been among the principal functions of common
magic. Across Europe in the Middle Ages and early-modern period,
a wide variety of healers and cunning men and women practiced
such magic. In common culture, for the most part, such people were
easily distinguished from witches, who performed harmful magic, or
maleficium, and who were typically believed to cause disease rather
HEALING, MAGICAL • 61

than cure it. Authorities, however, especially clerical authorities, of-
ten did not recognize such distinctions. They placed less importance
than most average people on the effects of magic and were more
concerned with the means by which magic supposedly operated. Be-
cause they believed that most magical operations depended on in-
voking demonic power, such acts were still evil even if (occasion-
ally) used to achieve beneficial ends. Many authorities believed, for
example, that witches might cause a disease or injury only to cure it
later. They supposedly did this not out of compassion for their
neighbors, but in order to corrupt their souls by involving them in
operations of demonic power.
In practical terms, because most witch trials began with accusa-
tions of maleficium, magical healers, who were not commonly seen
to perform such harmful sorcery, were generally safe. If a witch-
hunt developed, however, and accusations increasingly came to be
directed by authorities rather than arising naturally, magical healers
and cunning folk were certainly at risk. Authorities, who at best re-
garded them as frauds and charlatans, could become convinced that
they were witches, and as the level of panic generated by a hunt in-
creased within a community, common people, too, could begin to be-
come suspicious of the nature of magical healers’ supposed power.
HECATE. A classical goddess of night, death, and malevolent magic,
Hecate was also a lunar deity and was often associated with Diana
and Selene. Even in the ancient world Hecate was regarded as a dan-
gerous and often evil entity. She was imagined as a three-faced spirit
that haunted crossroads and roamed about at night, visible only to
dogs (a dog’s howl was taken as a sign that Hecate was near). She
caused nightmares and insanity and was particularly associated with
dark magic and witchcraft in the ancient world. The mythical sor-
ceresses Circe and Medea were sometimes believed to be daughters
of Hecate. In the Christian Middle Ages, when all pagan deities were
transformed into demons, many of Hecate’s terrifying attributes and
her strong association with witchcraft were transferred to the more
general figure of Diana.
HERESY. Any belief contrary to a formally established doctrine of the
church is considered a heresy. In the Middle Ages, the practice of de-
62 • HECATE

monic sorcery was deemed to be heretical because clerical authori-
ties decided that such acts must entail the worship of demons and
thus were considered a form of idolatry, a violation of the first com-
mandment. The most influential figure in establishing an argument
for the heretical nature of demonic sorcery was the 14th-century the-
ologian and inquisitor Nicolau Eymeric. Because witches were
thought to perform sorcery by demonic means, they were also con-
sidered heretics. Many aspects of witchcraft, and especially many el-
ements of the witches’ sabbath, derived from earlier medieval
stereotypes about heretics and heretical assemblies. Heretics were
commonly described as worshiping demons, often in the form of
some animal such as a cat or goat, murdering children, desecrating
the sacraments, and engaging in sexual orgies with one another. All
of these stereotypes were later transferred onto witches. During the
period of the witch-hunts, many authorities argued that denying the
reality of witchcraft or the existence of witches was also heretical,
because the church had declared such things to be real.
HERMETIC MAGIC. A major source of magical and occult knowl-
edge in European history was the body of writings traditionally attrib-
uted to Hermes Trismegistus (the Thrice-Great Hermes) and referred
to collectively as the Corpus Hermeticum. Thrice-Great Hermes was
a mythical figure—a blend of the Greek god Hermes and the Egypt-
ian god of wisdom, Thoth. He stood as a personification of arcane,
magical knowledge, and supposedly wrote over 20,000 books con-
taining his wisdom. In fact, the Corpus Hermeticum was composed by
various authors over several centuries. Much of it was lost in ancient
times, but some writings remained known throughout the Middle
Ages, and more were rediscovered in the Renaissance of the 14th and
15th centuries. Hermetic writings became a basis for much learned or
high magic in the Renaissance and continued to be a basis for systems
of learned magic and occult science in Europe thereafter. For exam-
ple, when occultists in 19th century England organized into a group,
they designated themselves the Hermetic Order of the Golden
Dawn. The rites and rituals of such groups have had some effect on
modern witchcraft, or Wicca, but historical Hermetic magic, always
regarded as a highly learned system and limited to a small elite, had
little to do with witchcraft in the medieval and early-modern periods.
HERMETIC MAGIC • 63

HERMETIC ORDER OF THE GOLDEN DAWN. Founded in Eng-
land in 1888, the Golden Dawn was an elite, secret society, along the
lines of earlier Masonic and Rosicrucian groups. Unlike those
groups, however, the purpose of the society was to promote the study
and practice of ritual magic among its members. Although the
founders initially claimed that the order was of ancient origin, in fact
the rituals and practices of the Golden Dawn were a loose assembly
of ancient Greco-Roman, Egyptian, and Hebrew systems of magic
and mysticism, along with medieval and modern Christian beliefs.
The members of the Golden Dawn could justify such mingling of dif-
ferent belief-systems because they accepted the notion, perhaps most
famously articulated in the writings of British anthropologist James
Frazer, that all historical religions were built upon a single, underly-
ing mythic system. Such ideas also influenced Margaret Murray
and others to conceive of historical witchcraft as an ancient, pre-
Christian fertility cult.
The members of the Golden Dawn, which included such luminar-
ies at W. B. Yeats and the famed occultist Aleister Crowley, were not
especially interested in witchcraft, which they considered to be a
form of low magic. By merging systems of ritual magic into a kind
of neo-pagan structure of belief, however, the order did help estab-
lish a basis for the development of modern witchcraft, or Wicca. The
principal founder of modern witchcraft, Gerald Gardner, was
drawn to the sort of occult studies that the Golden Dawn promoted.
Significantly, he was inducted by Aleister Crowley into the Ordo
Templi Orientis, another occult society that Crowley headed after his
expulsion from the Golden Dawn.
HERNE THE HUNTER. In Germanic legend, Herne was a male spirit
(also given as Herlechin, Harlequin, or Berthold) sometimes thought
to lead the Wild Hunt instead of the female spirit Holda or Berta. He
was pictured as wearing an antlered headdress. Christian authorities
in the Middle Ages frequently associated him with the devil. In mod-
ern witchcraft, or Wicca, he is associated with the Horned God.
HERODIAS. In the Bible, the wife of Herod who demanded the head
of John the Baptist, during the Middle Ages, Herodias was seen as an
64 • HERMETIC ORDER OF THE GOLDEN DAWN

embodiment of female evil. Nevertheless, her association with
witchcraft seems quite coincidental. In the Germanic concept of the
Wild Hunt, a group of spirits was led in nocturnal flight by a female
deity most typically named Holda or Berta. Authorities writing in
Latin typically transformed this deity into the classical Diana (al-
though even this was already introducing an error, since it was actu-
ally the goddess Hecate, closely associated with Diana, who was be-
lieved in classical antiquity to lead spirits through the night). Some
authorities, however, gave the name Herodias instead, apparently
working from the Germanic Ber- (alternately Her-) beginning of the
name, but seeking to provide a similar-sounding biblical name in-
stead. The image of the Wild Hunt later became an important basis
for the idea of night flight of witches to a sabbath.
HOBBES, THOMAS (1588–1679). The most important English polit-
ical philosopher of his day, Hobbes is best known for his extremely
important and influential treatise on government, Leviathan (1651).
He treats witchcraft only tangentially in this work, but demonstrates
a complete skepticism about the reality of witches and witchcraft.
For Hobbes, spirits—either angels or demons—had no real existence
or power in the world. Biblical passages referring to such spirits he
interpreted metaphorically. Without the real presence of demons in
the world, the entire basis for the reality of witchcraft was removed.
HOLDA. A Germanic goddess, also known as Hulda, Holle, Holt,
Berta, Bertha, or Perchta, she was associated with fertility, the
moon, and the hunt. For these reasons she was often equated by me-
dieval authorities with the classical goddess Diana. Holda was be-
lieved to lead the Wild Hunt, a group of spirits and ghosts who
roamed through the night. This Germanic legend became an impor-
tant basis for the later Christian notions of the night flight of
witches to a sabbath.
HOOPOE. A type of bird, in fact any member of the Upupidae family
common in Europe, hoopoes are distinguished in particular by the
fanlike crests on their heads. Historically they have long been asso-
ciated with magic and supernatural powers. The blood of the hoopoe,
HOOPOE • 65

as well as its brains, tongue, and heart, were all regarded as being par-
ticularly efficacious when used in spells, charms, and conjurations,
and the hoopoe itself was often used by magicians as a sacrifice when
invoking demons. Certain modern devotees of magic continue to re-
gard the hoopoe as a sort of totem.
HOPKINS, MATTHEW (?–1647). Born the son of a Puritan minis-
ter in Suffolk, Hopkins was a failed lawyer who became, briefly,
the most notorious and successful witch-hunter in English history.
In less than two years, from 1645 to 1646, he oversaw the execu-
tions of no less than 230 witches in southeastern England. He de-
clared himself to be England’s “Witch-Finder General,” and
claimed he had been appointed to this post by Parliament. His
methods proved too extreme, however, and he quickly found him-
self faced with criticism and significant opposition from local au-
thorities. His witch-hunting activity ended in 1646, as rapidly as
it had begun. In 1647, he published a brief treatise entitled Dis-
coverie of Witches, defending himself and his procedures. He died
in obscurity later that year.
The motivation for Hopkins’ zeal in persecuting witches is diffi-
cult to access, but might be no more complicated than a desire to
salvage an otherwise failed career as a lawyer. Abandoning his legal
practice, he determined to make a career as a professional witch-
hunter, and announced that for a fee, he and a colleague, John
Stearne, would find and eliminate witches in any community that
cared to hire them. Hopkins seems to have had no particular expert-
ise in the areas of witchcraft or demonology, and his knowledge of
these subjects was gleaned primarily from King James’ Dae-
monologie. He first came to fame with a series of trials in Chelms-
ford, Essex, in 1645. Thereafter, his reputation spread, he hired
more staff, and conducted numerous trials throughout Essex, Nor-
folk, Suffolk, and other counties in southeastern England. Although
the use of torture in cases of witchcraft was forbidden by English
law, this prohibition was sometimes ignored, and Hopkins was par-
ticularly aggressive in his application of torture to obtain confes-
sions. Such extreme practices helped to rouse opposition to him,
however, and brought his short career to an end.
66 • HOPKINS, MATTHEW (?–1647)

HORNED GOD. In modern witchcraft, or Wicca, and other forms of
neo-paganism, the Horned God is the male aspect of the supreme de-
ity, and consort to the Goddess. Although the Goddess is generally
held to be superior, the Horned God is very important in modern neo-
pagan rituals. The god is often associated with such historical pagan
deities as the Celtic Cernunnos, the Greek and Roman Pan, and the
Celtic and Germanic figure of Herne the Hunter. All of these beings
were depicted as horned, and often appeared in half-animal forms.
Following the theories of Margaret Murray, some modern witches
believed that historical witchcraft was an actual survival of an ancient,
pre-Christian religion, and that during the Middle Ages, Christian au-
thorities had mistakenly (or deliberately) transformed the witches’
worship of the Horned God into worship of the Christian devil. Mur-
ray’s theories have long since been disproved, however, and most
modern Wiccans see their religion as a creative revival of historical
pagan beliefs, not as the continuation of a long, clandestine tradition.
HUMANISM. Describing a program of humanistic studies that devel-
oped in Italy in the late 14th and 15th centuries and then spread to the
rest of Europe, humanism (the term was actually only coined in the
19th century) is often seen as one of the defining elements of the Ital-
ian Renaissance. As a program of study, it stressed attention to the lit-
erature of classical antiquity, both Latin and Greek, and placed more
value on rhetorical and literary skill than on dialectic logic in argu-
mentation. It developed as an intellectual system in opposition to me-
dieval scholasticism. Regarding witchcraft, humanist scholars were
often inclined to a certain degree of skepticism. This might have
been partly because of their natural suspicion of much scholastic
thought, which formed the basis for medieval demonology. Also, be-
cause of their closer attention to ancient texts, humanists often real-
ized that the Bible and other ancient sources did not really describe
witchcraft as it was conceived in the 15th and 16th centuries. Never-
theless, humanists did not deny the reality of the devil or his poten-
tial power in the world, and humanism as a system of thought was in
no way antithetical to belief in witchcraft.
HUNGARY. See EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN.
HUNGARY • 67

– I –
IDOLATRY. Along with apostasy, idolatry was considered by most
authorities throughout medieval and early-modern Europe to be the
main crime entailed in witchcraft. Rather than focus on the supposed
harm that a witch might achieve through harmful sorcery (malefi-
cium), first ecclesiastical authorities and then increasingly secular
ones as well considered the real evil of witchcraft to lie in the
witches’ involvement with demons. They developed theories that de-
fined how most, if not all, demonic sorcery, such as witches were be-
lieved to perform, required that worship be offered to demons, or that
they be invoked in some way that set them equal to or above divine
power. This was considered idolatry, a serious form of heresy. The
inquisitor Nicolau Eymeric developed an extended and detailed ar-
gument about the idolatrous nature of demonic magic in the late 14th
century, and thereafter, demonic magic and witchcraft were often
classified by authorities as a violation of the first commandment.
IMP. Any type of small demon or demonic creature might be called an
imp. In medieval and early-modern Europe, sorcerers were often
thought to keep imps imprisoned in jewels, vials, or glass jars to
serve them. Particularly in the British Isles, witches were also
thought to keep imps in animal form as familiars.
INCUBI AND SUCCUBI. In medieval and early-modern Europe, peo-
ple believed that demons could take substantial form and engage in
sexual activity with humans. Demons who took male form were
called incubi and those who took female form were called succubi.
Such beliefs, especially the belief in seductive, although often also
terrible, female demons, are of ancient origins. The ancient Sumeri-
ans believed in a terrible spirit called Ardat Lili or Lilitu, a monstrous
female demon with wings and talons who would fly through the
night, seduce men, and drink their blood. Such beliefs are also re-
flected in the Hebrew demon Lilith and Greco-Roman creatures strix
and lamia. All of these figures would later contribute to the stereo-
type of European witchcraft. Witches were themselves thought to en-
gage in sexual activity with demons, especially during the orgies
held at a witches’ sabbath. Female witches were often thought to
68 • IDOLATRY

submit sexually to the devil himself, whose member was typically
described as being ice cold.
Many Christian authorities, especially in the earlier medieval pe-
riod, were skeptical about the real existence of incubi and succubi.
They doubted that demons, as spiritual creatures, could assume solid
material form in order to engage in sexual intercourse. Such doubts
were, for the most part, gradually overcome in the 12th and 13th cen-
turies, as clerical authorities became more concerned about the real
power of demons in the world. Notably, the great authority Thomas
Aquinas developed a full argument to explain how demons could as-
sume solid form, and how they could engage in sexual intercourse
with humans. As succubi, Thomas maintained, demons collected se-
men from human men and were then able to preserve its potency so
that later, as incubi, they could impregnate women with it. This the-
ory persisted throughout the period of the major witch-hunts.
INFANTICIDE. A major crime historically associated with witchcraft
has been the killing, in various ways and for various purposes, of ba-
bies and small children. As far back as classical antiquity, creatures
like the strix and lamia were believed to fly through the night and
prey on children. Such nocturnal female monsters later contributed to
the stereotype of witchcraft. In medieval and early-modern Europe,
witches were thought to kill children in several ways. One standard
element of maleficium, the harmful sorcery witches were thought to
perform, was killing and causing disease, especially in children.
Witches were also believed to be able to cause miscarriages and abor-
tions of unborn fetuses. The murder of children also played an im-
portant role in typical images of the witches’ sabbath, where witches
were thought to use parts of babies’ bodies in their magic spells, to
sacrifice children to the devil, and to cannibalize babies as a part of
their general feasting and revelry.
One obvious explanation for the longstanding connection of witch-
craft with infanticide is the extremely high mortality rate of infants
and young children in the pre-modern world. Accusations of witch-
craft provided a ready explanation for such misfortune. Historians
used to think that midwives were frequently accused of witchcraft for
this reason, but this theory has since been largely discredited and it
now seems clear that in fact very few midwives were accused of
INFANTICIDE • 69

witchcraft. Some people still suspect that practitioners of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca, engage in infanticide, although the ritual mur-
der of children is more often associated with groups practicing Sa-
tanism. In fact, no Wiccan or Satanist groups engage in or promote
any activity like this, and there has never been any substantial, cred-
ible evidence that organized groups of any nature exist that focus on
the ritualistic abuse or murder of children. Nevertheless, this long-
standing myth shows few signs of abating in the modern world.
INNOCENT III, POPE (1160/61–1216). One of the most important
popes of the medieval period, reigning from 1198 until 1216, Innocent
played a critical role in the introduction of inquisitorial procedure to
Western Europe. In 1215, the Fourth Lateran Council, under the
pope’s direction, regularized legal procedures used against heretics,
and, importantly, allowed judges to initiate inquests into heresy them-
selves, even when no accuser was present. In following centuries,
such procedures would be essential to the spread of witch-hunts.
INNOCENT VIII, POPE (1432–1492). In the first year of his pontifi-
cate, which lasted from 1484 until 1492, Innocent VIII issued what is
sometimes regarded as the most important papal pronouncement con-
cerning witchcraft, the bull Summis desiderantes affectibus (the title
comes from the document’s opening words in Latin: “Desiring with
Supreme Ardor”). Having been alerted by the papal inquisitors Hein-
rich Kramer and Jakob Sprenger to the existence of numerous
witches throughout lands of the German Empire, the pope ex-
pressed his grief that so many Christians had fallen into such grave
error and heresy, sacrificing their souls to the devil and performing
harmful sorcery, or maleficium, in his service. The pope then noted
that many local authorities had not given Kramer and Sprenger the
assistance they required to conduct their inquisitions effectively and
root out this particularly terrible error. He commanded that papal in-
quisitors should have full authority to investigate and prosecute this
crime in all territories, and that local authorities should give all nec-
essary assistance and offer no impediments to such action. Although
sometimes regarded as marking the official start of witch-hunting in
Europe, the bull is actually fairly typical of papal pronouncements on
sorcery and witchcraft throughout the late-medieval period, at least
70 • INNOCENT III, POPE (1160/61–1216)

since the pontificate of John XXII in the early 14th century. The bull
was later included in the infamous late–medieval witch-hunting man-
ual Malleus maleficarum, written by Heinrich Kramer and first
printed in 1487, thus greatly enlarging its circulation. Although the
bull was first issued several years before the Malleus, and was in no
way connected to the treatise, its inclusion seemed to lend papal ap-
proval to the witch-hunting manual.
INQUISITION. Often regarded as some sort of supreme, repressive le-
gal organ of the church, in fact there never was anything like a co-
herent and centrally controlled “Inquisition” in medieval Europe. Be-
ginning in the 13th century, there were individual, papally appointed
inquisitors who were responsible for helping to combat heresy, and
in later periods there were certain standing Inquisitions. However,
these people and later organizations generally played only a small
role in matters of witchcraft or witch-hunting. Papal inquisitors
were important in some of the earliest witch trials in the 15th century,
but thereafter, and throughout the period of the great witch-hunts,
witchcraft was generally classified as a secular crime and tried in sec-
ular courts (albeit courts that were operating according to inquisito-
rial procedure).
The Latin term inquisitio, taken in the legal sense, merely meant
an inquiry, such that the further clarification inquisitio haereticae
pravitatis (inquisition into heretical depravity) was needed to define
a trial for heresy. Such inquisitions were originally the responsibility
of bishops, who were in overall charge of enforcing correct religious
observance and belief in their diocese. Owing to the perceived rise in
heresy in the 12th and 13th centuries, however, in 1231 Pope Gre-
gory IX issued the bull Ille humani generis, in which he commis-
sioned the Dominican convent in Regensburg to form an inquisitor-
ial tribunal independent of the local bishop and directly under papal
authority. This act is generally taken to mark the creation of “the in-
quisition” in Europe. However, papal inquisitors, although in theory
under the control of Rome, still acted largely as independent agents,
and certainly there was no institutional structure or organization that
could be called the “Inquisition” at this time.
Inquisitors seem rather quickly to have begun hearing cases in-
volving sorcery. However, in 1258, Pope Alexander IV specifically
INQUISITION • 71

forbade papal inquisitors from trying such cases, unless there was
clear evidence that the acts of sorcery were also heretical in nature.
In practice, this might not have represented much of a limitation on
inquisitorial authority because the church assumed that most sorcery
relied on the agency of demons, and involvement with demons or
pacts made with them could clearly be construed as heresy. In 1320,
Pope John XXII specifically ordered the inquisitors of Toulouse and
Carcassonne in southern France to take action against any sorcerers
who were invoking or worshiping demons as a part of their magical
rites. In 1326, John then issued the bull Super illius specula, which
declared a sentence of automatic excommunication on any sorcerer
who invoked demons, worshiped them, or entered into pacts with
them. Later that century, in 1376, the inquisitor Nicolau Eymeric
wrote his Directorium inquisitorum (Directory of Inquisitors), in
which he proved by theological argument that all magic involving de-
monic invocation entailed idolatry. This was a form of heresy, and
therefore subject to inquisitorial authority.
In the 15th century, papal inquisitors played an important role in
early witch trials and in the production of some of the earliest litera-
ture on witchcraft. The anonymous author of one of the most lurid
early accounts, the Errores Gazariorum (Errors of the Gazarii—a
common term for heretics at the time), was probably an inquisitor.
Most famously, Heinrich Kramer, author of the infamous Malleus
maleficarum, was also an inquisitor in southern Germany for several
years and conducted many witch trials before he wrote this important
treatise on witch-hunting. Despite such important inquisitorial con-
tributions to the emergence of witchcraft, however, one of the basic
elements of the crime, namely the practice of harmful sorcery or mal-
eficium, had always been under the jurisdiction of secular authorities.
Thus witch trials were from the start conducted in both secular and
ecclesiastical courts. During the period of the most intense witch-
hunting in the 16th and 17th centuries, the majority of trials were
conducted in secular courts in most European lands.
It is notable, in fact, that in the lands of Southern Europe, where
witchcraft remained more often under ecclesiastical jurisdiction,
witch-hunts were relatively light and in particular the number of ex-
ecutions for witchcraft was significantly lower than in many other ar-
eas. Italy and Spain are also the only two regions of Europe that ac-
72 • INQUISITION

tually had Inquisitions in the sense of large, centralized, bureaucratic
organizations that oversaw the actions of inquisitorial courts. The
Spanish Inquisition was founded in 1478 as an instrument of the
Spanish royal government, not the pope in Rome. The Holy Office of
the Roman Inquisition was founded by Pope Paul III in 1542. Both
of these institutions were notably lenient in matters of witchcraft.
There are two basic reasons for this. First, inquisitorial courts in gen-
eral regarded witchcraft as a form of heresy, and traditionally, death
sentences were only imposed on recalcitrant heretics. If the accused
were willing to confess and formally renounce their errors, then less
severe punishment could be imposed. Cases of witchcraft were often
somewhat different, because the heresy involved was so extreme, but
in general, inquisitorial courts proved more willing to impose lesser
sentences than secular ones. Also, the very fact that the Spanish and
Roman Inquisitions were large, centralized bureaucracies contributed
to their lenience toward witches.
Evidence is clear to show that the most severe witch-hunts took
place in regions where local courts had significant autonomy. Local
judges were often swept up in the panic that could follow several ac-
cusations of witchcraft and therefore allowed certain legal proce-
dures and safeguards (such as those that governed the use of torture)
to lapse. Centralized courts, on the other hand, were less susceptible
to local conditions and tended to stress the proper application of pro-
cedure, the careful evaluation of evidence, and so forth. Throughout
Europe, in lands where legal systems were largely centralized or at
least overseen by a central authority, prosecutions and especially ex-
ecutions for witchcraft were generally low. This was true also for the
centralized Inquisitions in Italy and even more so in Spain, where the
supreme council in Madrid had very effective control over inquisito-
rial courts across the country.
INQUISITORIAL PROCEDURE. This refers to a system of legal
procedure that came to be used increasingly in European courts of
law, both ecclesiastical and secular, after the 13th century, in place of
the older accusatorial procedure. It was in many ways a more ra-
tional procedure than the earlier method, and was based to some ex-
tent on the recovery of Roman legal texts and principles of jurispru-
dence in the course of the 11th and 12th centuries. In terms of the
INQUISITORIAL PROCEDURE • 73

potential to try cases of sorcery and witchcraft, however, the intro-
duction of inquisitorial procedure had dire consequences. Certain as-
pects of the accusatorial procedure, above all the potential for pun-
ishment of the initial accuser if an accused person was proven
innocent, tended to restrict the frequency of accusations for particu-
larly secretive or difficult to prove crimes, of which sorcery was cer-
tainly one. Inquisitorial procedure, on the other hand, by placing re-
sponsibility for the prosecution of a trial in the hands of the court
itself, paved the way for more frequent accusations, and the use of
torture, allowed under inquisitorial procedure, ensured frequent con-
fession to even the most fantastic crimes.
Under inquisitorial procedure, cases were still often initiated by
accusations made by private persons who felt themselves injured or
afflicted in some way. However, judges were also given the power to
call people before their courts on their own initiative, often based
only on some general ill-repute (infamia). However cases began, the
most important aspect of inquisitorial procedure was that the judges
themselves were responsible for the investigation and prosecution of
the case. They did this usually by interrogating the accused person
and other potential witnesses. For serious crimes, the level of proof
needed was testimony from two reliable witnesses or a confession.
This was in many respects a far more rational and advanced method
of conducting trials than the older accusatorial procedure, which had
often relied on trial by ordeal to determine guilt or innocence. How-
ever, for crimes like sorcery or witchcraft, judges faced a particular
problem in that, because of the secretive and clandestine nature of
such acts, reliable witnesses could rarely be found. This meant that
much more weight came to rest on the testimony of the accused
themselves.
Because it was assumed that people would lie to protect them-
selves, torture was allowed under inquisitorial procedure in order to
obtain a full confession. Judges were fully aware that torture could
also be used to produce false confessions, and regulations were put in
place to ensure that this did not occur. However, for crimes like witch-
craft, which were regarded as particularly terrible, such regulations
were often set aside. This was especially true if one or more initial ac-
cusations began to produce an atmosphere of panic in the community,
to which the judges were often not immune. Thus, inquisitorial proce-
74 • INQUISITORIAL PROCEDURE

dure facilitated the rise of accusations for witchcraft by eliminating
the potential legal repercussions on private individuals for false accu-
sations and by allowing the courts themselves to initiate trials. Also,
in cases of witchcraft, inquisitorial procedure provided the courts with
a method, one that given the nature of the potential evidence for the
crime they were frequently required to use, could virtually ensure con-
viction. For these reasons, widespread witch-hunting would have
been practically inconceivable if inquisitorial procedure had not been
gradually adopted by almost all European courts by the end of the
Middle Ages.
INSTITORIS, HEINRICUS. See KRAMER, HEINRICH.
IRELAND. See BRITISH ISLES, WITCHCRAFT IN.
ISIDORE OF SEVILLE (ca. 560–636). A major scholar of the Visig-
othic kingdom in Spain in the seventh century, Isidore’s most impor-
tant work was the 20 volumes of his Etymologies. Because he was
convinced that most things were best understood by exploring the
origins of their names, he organized this work as a study of the roots
of words. In fact, it was a virtual encyclopedia of all the knowledge
available to him, including a great deal of Roman learning. Isidore
did not specifically focus on matters of magic or witchcraft, but he
preserved much information on these subjects from Roman, Jewish,
and early Christian sources. His work was very popular and became
a standard reference source and basis for later medieval scholars on
all subjects, including magic and the occult.
ITALY. See SOUTHERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN.
– J –
JACQUIER, NICHOLAS (?–1472). A Dominican friar who was ac-
tive at the Council of Basel in 1432 and 1433, Jacquier was later an
inquisitor in northern France, where he participated in some witch tri-
als, in Bohemia from 1466 to 1468, and at Lille from 1468 until his
death. In 1458, he wrote a treatise entitled Flagellum haereticorum
JACQUIER, NICHOLAS (?–1472) • 75

fascinariorum (Scourge of Heretical Witches). Here, he argued that
witches represented a new form of heresy, worse than any that had
been seen in the past. The famous canon Episcopi’s dismissal of
night flight as an illusion, for example, did not apply to this new
form of heresy. Jacquier joined Jean Vineti and Johannes Hartlieb
in being among the first authorities to systematically address the re-
ality of night flight and the witches’ sabbath.
JAMES VI and I, KING (1566–1625). King first of Scotland (as
James VI, 1567–1625) and then later also of England (as James I,
1603–1625), James owes his long reign to the fact that his mother,
Mary Queen of Scots, was accused of murdering her husband and
was forced to abdicate her throne in 1567 in favor of her infant son,
then just 13 months old. Regents actually governed the kingdom un-
til 1583 when James took up personal rule. Several years later, the
king became directly involved in matters of witchcraft with the af-
fair of the North Berwick Witches. A group of witches were put on
trial in Edinburgh and were, in fact, questioned in the presence of the
king. They claimed, among other things, to have tried to murder him
by raising storms at sea to drown him while he was aboard ship. This
case aroused the king’s interest in witchcraft, and he began to study
the subject. He was alarmed at the skepticism about witchcraft ex-
pressed in such works as Reginald Scot’s Discoverie of Witchcraft
and Johann Weyer’s De praestigiis daemonum (On the Deception of
Demons). In response, he wrote his own, far more credulous work,
Daemonologie (Demonology), first published in 1597. In 1603, Eliz-
abeth I of England died without a direct heir, and James became king
of England as well as Scotland. His Daemonologie was issued in a
new edition, and he ordered copies of Scot’s Discoverie of Witchcraft
to be burned throughout England. A year later, in 1604, Parliament
passed a new witchcraft act, strengthening the legislation against
witches already passed under Elizabeth I.
James often has been regarded as a severe persecutor of witches.
Certainly no other European monarch took so direct an interest in
matters of witchcraft, to the extent of producing a treatise on the sub-
ject. Nevertheless, the material in Daemonologie is not in any way in-
novative. Witch-hunting was quite severe in Scotland in the early
years of James’ reign, but (aside from the North Berwick case) the
76 • JAMES VI AND I, KING (1566–1625)

king had little direct involvement, and after the 1590s, the number of
trials in Scotland began to subside. Likewise in England, although the
final and most severe form of the witchcraft act was passed in 1604
under James’ rule, earlier monarchs had already established similar
legislation. Moreover, the most severe cases of witch-hunting did not
occur in England until after James’ reign. In all, he seems simply to
have shared in the concern over witchcraft widespread in his time,
and by the end of his life, in fact, he seems to have become increas-
ingly skeptical about the extent of the danger witches represented.
JEWS. Although often persecuted by Christian authorities in medieval
and early-modern Europe, and always marginalized within Christian
society, Jews were only rarely accused of being witches. Witchcraft,
insofar as it was believed to be predicated on a pact with the devil
and the worship of demons, was regarded by Christian authorities as
a heresy, and Jews, as non-Christians, by definition could not be
found guilty of heresy. Jews, for their part, shared little of the Chris-
tian concern over witchcraft. Judaism did not have as developed a
concept of the devil as existed within Christianity, and while Judaism
did have elaborate systems of demonology, it allowed for the exis-
tence of good as well as evil spirits that could be called upon to per-
form magic, and so not all forms of magical practice were as auto-
matically or thoroughly linked to evil as they were by Christian
religious authorities.
In Christian minds, however, Judaism was believed to be very sim-
ilar to witchcraft in a number of ways, and at times virtually identical
to it. Christian authorities typically considered Jews to be a significant
threat to the faith, similar to witches, and often conceived of elaborate,
conspiratorial plots by Jews to undermine Christian society, just as
they suspected that witches were engaged in an organized conspiracy
directed by Satan. Christian stereotypes about Jews that had devel-
oped in the Middle Ages were often carried over and applied to
witches as well. For example, in the earliest documents from the late
Middle Ages, secret gatherings of witches are referred to not as sab-
baths but as synagogues. The image of witches murdering children
and devouring them also derives partly from earlier anti-Jewish
stereotypes. Jews were often accused of murdering Christian children,
draining their blood, or eating them in a parody of the Eucharist.
JEWS • 77

JOAN OF ARC (ca. 1412–1431). Often regarded as one of the most fa-
mous victims of accusations of witchcraft, Joan was burned at the
stake in the city of Rouen in Normandy on May 30, 1431. In fact, al-
though Joan was charged with certain crimes relating to witchcraft,
these proved incidental, at best, to her final conviction and execution,
which in any event was a foregone conclusion because of the highly
politicized nature of her trial during the Hundred Years War fought
between the English and the French.
Joan was born in Domrémy in Champagne and began hearing
voices while still quite young. She became convinced that these
voices were those of the Archangel Michael and Saints Margaret and
Catherine, and that they were commanding her to help save France
from the invading English. Accepted by the French dauphin, Charles
VII, as a genuine messenger of God, she was allowed to lead a force
to the relief of the city of Orléans, besieged by the English. She broke
the siege and inflicted a major defeat on the English. Slightly over
two months later, on July 17, 1429, she was present when Charles
VII, having won several other victories, was crowned king in the
cathedral of Reims. She led several more campaigns, but in May
1430 she was captured and turned over to the English by their allies
the Burgundians. She was put on trial in Rouen, deep in English-held
territory.
Joan was accused of a wide variety of crimes and heresies. Her
voices were assumed by her judges to be demonic, and she was
charged with consorting with fairies, summoning demons, worship-
ing them, performing sorcery, and making pacts with the devil.
Such charges are certainly similar to those that figured in most cases
of witchcraft, but they do not represent a clear accusation of that
crime. Moreover the charges of sorcery made against Joan were
withdrawn for lack of evidence before her final conviction, which
was based entirely on charges of false beliefs and heresy. Neverthe-
less, for her supposed involvement with demons and her apparently
supernatural accomplishments, many contemporary authorities did
regard Joan as something very akin to a witch. The early authority
Johannes Nider included Joan in his discussion of witchcraft in the
fifth book of his large treatise Formicarius (The Anthill), although
he consistently termed her a magician (maga) and not a witch
(malefica).
78 • JOAN OF ARC (CA. 1412–1431)

JOHN XXII, POPE (1244–1334). As one of the most important and
powerful popes of the early 14th century, John, who reigned from
1316 until 1334, contributed significantly to the development of ec-
clesiastical concern over demonic magic. He ordered papal inquisi-
tors to begin taking action against suspected demonic sorcery be-
cause this was deemed to be a form of heresy, and he issued a
sentence of automatic excommunication against any Christian who
practiced such magic. His bull Super illius specula remained an im-
portant ruling against practitioners of demonic magic for the remain-
der of the Middle Ages.
Born Jacques Duèse in the French city of Cahors in 1244, John
studied both theology and canon law. He came to the papal throne
only after a hotly contested election during which the papacy had
been vacant for nearly two years. From the very beginning of his pon-
tificate, John was especially concerned with matters of sorcery and
demonic magic. He feared that his opponents both within and outside
the church were trying to assassinate him through sorcery. In 1317,
he had Hugues Géraud, the bishop of Cahors, arrested on such
charges, and other arrests were to follow. From 1320 to 1325, charges
of sorcery and heresy were brought against many of John’s political
enemies in Italy, especially members of the Visconti family, the pow-
erful rulers of Milan.
Although it is clear that John often used accusations of sorcery in
an entirely cynical way as a political tool, he seems also to have
been genuinely concerned about such practices, both because of the
perceived threat to his own safety, and because of the heresy in-
volved in dealing with demonic forces. In 1320, he instructed
William, Cardinal of Santa Sabine, to order that the papal inquisi-
tors of Toulouse and Carcassonne in southern France begin taking
action against anyone who engaged in demonic invocation or sor-
cery. Later, in 1326, he issued the bull Super illius specula, in
which he declared a sentence of automatic excommunication on
any Christians who invoked or worshiped demons in order to per-
form any kind of magic. Although John was clearly more concerned
with learned demonic magic, or necromancy, than with common
maleficium of the sort later associated with witchcraft, his rulings
formed an important basis for later inquisitorial jurisdiction over
cases of witchcraft.
JOHN XXII, POPE (1244–1334) • 79

– K –
KNIGHTS TEMPLAR. See TEMPLARS.
KRAMER (INSTITORIS), HEINRICH (ca. 1430–1505). A Domini-
can friar and papal inquisitor, Kramer (the name he used in his Ger-
man writings; he used Institoris in his Latin works) is best known as
the author of the infamous late-medieval witch-hunting manual
Malleus maleficarum (Hammer of Witches), written in 1486 and
first printed in 1487. Although he is traditionally listed along with his
fellow Dominican Jakob Sprenger as the author of this work, much
evidence points to Kramer being the sole author.
Before writing his great treatise on witch-hunting, Kramer was ac-
tive as a papal inquisitor conducting inquisitions into heresy and
witchcraft in the southern lands of the German Empire. He was ap-
pointed to his office in 1474, and in 1484 he and his fellow inquisi-
tor Sprenger were singled out in Pope Innocent VIII’s bull Summis
desiderantes affectibus. Concerned over reports of widespread witch-
craft and demonic activity coming from Kramer and Sprenger, the
pope ordered the inquisitors to proceed against these threats to
the faith with all their energies, as well as commanding that all local
authorities should aid them in whatever way they could. Although in
no way connected to the later Malleus maleficarum, this bull was
included in printed editions of that book, thereby adding to the trea-
tise’s authority.
Especially as it has become increasingly clear that Kramer was the
primary author, and in all likelihood the sole author, of the Malleus
maleficarum, many scholars have sought to link elements of that
work to Kramer’s own personality. He has been depicted as emo-
tionally disturbed, an almost pathological hater of women, and as
someone prone to strange sexual fantasies. He was certainly an arro-
gant and ruthless man who aroused much opposition from local au-
thorities. In 1490, he was censured by the Dominican order for his ir-
regular and excessive activities. In 1500, he was dispatched to
combat heresy and witchcraft in Bohemia, where he died.
KYTELER, ALICE (?–1324). A wealthy woman of Kilkenny, Ire-
land, Lady Alice married four husbands, three of whom died under
80 • KNIGHTS TEMPLAR

mysterious circumstances. When her fourth husband, John le Poer,
began to sicken, several of her children began to accuse her of using
sorcery to bewitch their fathers into leaving all their wealth to her
and her favorite son by her first marriage, William Outlaw. In 1324,
the case was taken up by Bishop Richard Ledrede. Ultimately, Alice
and a group of accomplices, including one servant who was burned
at the stake, were accused of renouncing the Christian faith, wor-
shiping demons and sacrificing to them at crossroads, and perform-
ing harmful sorcery. Alice supposedly had a demonic familiar named
Robert or Robin, Son of Art, who would appear to her in the form of
a black dog or an Ethiopian. Although the case did not proceed
smoothly, since Lady Alice had powerful friends who put up resist-
ance and Bishop Ledrede does not appear to have been a well-liked
man, nevertheless eventually Alice was condemned for heresy. She
only escaped punishment by fleeing to England, where she probably
spent the rest of her life.
The Kyteler case is the first trial involving harmful sorcery, or
maleficium, and heretical diabolism in Ireland, and no other case
would occur until the 17th century. While the case clearly resembles
later witch trials in several ways, many aspects of the later witch-
stereotype are also clearly absent. Moreover, the case was an iso-
lated event arising out of particular circumstances, not an example
of a widespread or developing phenomenon. Thus its place in the
overall rise of witchcraft and witch-hunting in late-medieval Eu-
rope is difficult to determine.
– L –
LAMIA. In classical mythology, Lamia was a queen of Libya whom
Zeus, the king of the gods, loved. Hera, Zeus’ queen, took revenge on
Lamia by killing her children. She in turn became a monster who
roamed the night seeking to kill the children of others. Over time, the
individual Lamia became a whole category of demons or monsters,
all called lamia (plural lamiae), that preyed on children. They were
believed to be vampires who sucked the blood from their victims.
They contributed to the medieval and early-modern image of the
witch as a woman who performed evil at night and especially sought
LAMIA • 81

to harm babies and small children. The word lamia in fact became a
common term for witches in many areas of Europe during the era of
the major witch-hunts.
LANCASHIRE WITCHES. A major witch trial in England occurred
in 1612 in Lancashire. In all, some 20 people were accused and put
on trial, but the case originated with the accusation of an old woman,
Elizabeth Sowthern, who was about 80 years old. She not only con-
fessed but also accused another old woman as well as her own grand-
daughter. From this point, the search for other witches grew. Al-
though the case itself can be seen as fairly typical of English
witchcraft, it is significant in the records that it produced. The court
clerk kept a detailed and semi-official record of the proceedings, and
this was subsequently published in 1613 as a chapbook entitled The
Wonderful Discovery of Witches in the County of Lancaster.
LANCRE, PIERRE DE (1553–1631). A French lawyer and royal of-
ficial, Lancre was appointed by King Henry IV to investigate witch-
craft in the Pays de Labourd, a Basque-speaking region in the south-
west of France. He conducted intense investigations and trials in
1609 and 1610. He then published an extensive account of these tri-
als, Tableau de l’inconstance de mauvais anges et démons (Descrip-
tion of the Inconstancy of Evil Angels and Demons) in 1612, as well
as later works, L’incredulité et mescréance du sortilège (The In-
credulity and Misbelief of Witchcraft) and Du sortilège (On Witch-
craft), in 1622 and 1627 respectively.
Lancre was extremely credulous when it came to accusations of
witchcraft. He accepted the testimony of children, and many of the
accused witches whom he tried were in fact minors. According to his
accounts, the Basque lands were the center of the most intense witch-
craft in Europe. He believed that huge witches’ sabbaths were held
in this region, with sometimes up to 2,000 witches supposedly at-
tending. Ultimately, he became convinced that almost the entire pop-
ulation of the region, some 30,000 people, including all the local
clergy, were tainted by witchcraft. Many accounts state that Lancre
executed 600 people during the course of his trials, but this figure is
certainly grossly inflated. A more reasonable estimate would be
around 80 executions.
82 • LANCASHIRE WITCHES

LaVEY, ANTON. See CHURCH OF SATAN.
LE FRANC, MARTIN (1410–1461). One of the most important
French poets of the 15th century, Martin Le Franc included a section
on witchcraft in his long poem Le Champion des Dames (The De-
fender of Ladies), written between 1440 and 1442. The poem finds
its larger context in the late-medieval querelle des femmes, the liter-
ary discussion of the virtues of women. Le Franc wrote Le Champion
in response to the very misogynistic poem Roman de la Rose. In Le
Franc’s poem, an “Adversary” raises the issue of witchcraft to attack
women, noting that far more women than men are accused of this
crime. The “Champion” then responds by defending women. In par-
ticular, he responds to the accusation of the night flight of female
witches by arguing from the well-known canon Episcopi that such
flight is only an illusion. He also points out that many learned de-
monic magicians are men.
Le Franc composed this poem while he was at the Council of
Basel in the service of Duke Amadeus VIII of Savoy, later elected
anti-pope Felix V by the council as a part of its struggle against Pope
Eugenius IV. The Council of Basel was an important center for the
early development and transmission of the idea of witchcraft. Aside
from the purely literary influences on Le Champion des Dames, Le
Franc was certainly also influenced by the environment at the coun-
cil. His poem stands along with the accounts of the Dominican the-
ologian Johannes Nider, the French secular judge Claude
Tholosan, the Lucerne chronicler Hans Fründ, and the anonymous
author of the Errores Gazariorum, as one of the earliest sources de-
scribing the developing idea of witchcraft in the early 15th century.
LELAND, CHARLES (1824–1903). A wealthy American author and
amateur anthropologist, Leland devoted his life to studying folklore,
magic, and the occult. His major contribution to the emergence of mod-
ern witchcraft, or Wicca, in the 20th century came with the publica-
tion of Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches in 1899. While traveling in
Italy, Leland claimed to have met a traditional, hereditary witch named
Maddalena. She revealed to him that witchcraft was in fact an ancient,
pagan religion that had been persecuted by religious authorities in the
medieval and early-modern periods and driven underground, but which
LELAND, CHARLES (1824–1903) • 83

still survived. She claimed to trace her own hereditary powers back to
Etruscan roots. She described the beliefs and practices of this religion
to Leland, who subsequently published them as Aradia. In fact, the
doctrines and supposed history outlined in Aradia are heavily indebted
to 19th-century anthropology and historical studies such as those by
Jules Michelet, who argued that historical witchcraft was in fact a form
of popular resistance against oppressive religious authorities. Either
Leland invented the supposed witch-religion himself or Maddalena
simply told her wealthy patron what he wanted to hear. A similar in-
terpretation of historical witchcraft was later advanced in the more in-
fluential writings of Margaret Murray.
LILITH. In Jewish demonology, Lilith was the first wife of Adam but
refused to accept the authority God had given him over her and left
him. She became a demonic creature who stalked the night, either
appearing as a beautiful woman and seeking to seduce men, or trying
to kill babies and small children. Like other mythological creatures,
such as the lamia and strix, as well as demonic succubi, she became
an archetype of female evil. As such, she contributed to the later im-
age of the witch, especially to the notions of the female witch as sex-
ually driven and as a murderer of young children. See also WOMEN
AND WITCHCRAFT.
LOOS, CORNELIUS (1546–1593). A Catholic priest and scholar,
Loos was a strong opponent of witch-hunting who ultimately suf-
fered condemnation as a heretic for his beliefs. Born in Gouda in the
Netherlands, Loos studied at Louvain and Liège and then taught at
Mainz and Trier, which was a center of witch-hunting at the time. He
grew increasingly concerned about the nature of the trials taking
place and attempted to stop them, writing a treatise De vera et falsa
magia (On True and False Magic). He not only argued that excessive
use of torture led to false confessions in witch trials, but also that
demons could not assume physical bodies to operate in the world. In
particular, Loos criticized Peter Binsfeld, the suffragan bishop of
Trier and a strong proponent of witch-hunting. He was imprisoned on
the grounds that failure to accept the reality of witchcraft was a
heresy, his writings were suppressed, and in 1593 he was forced to
recant his beliefs. He was then banished to Brussels but refused to re-
84 • LILITH

main silent on matters of witchcraft and so was arrested and impris-
oned as a relapsed heretic. He probably would have been executed
had he not died of natural causes shortly thereafter.
LOUDUN, POSSESSIONS AT. The supposed demonic possession of
several nuns in a convent at Loudun, France, in 1633 and 1634 is
among the most notorious cases of possession in early-modern his-
tory, made famous again in the 20th century by Aldous Huxley’s The
Devils of Loudun. The case centered on a priest, Father Urbain
Grandier. Grandier, an outsider, was appointed to the parish in
Loudun and almost immediately began to arouse hostility by seduc-
ing local women. In 1630, he was arrested for immorality but,
through political connections, was restored to his priestly office.
Shortly thereafter another local priest, Father Mignon, and the mother
superior and several of the nuns at Loudun hatched a plot to discredit
Grandier. The nuns feigned possession and claimed Grandier was re-
sponsible.
Required to free the nuns from their possession, which of course
he was unable to do, Grandier was eventually imprisoned and sub-
jected to torture. He refused to confess to any charges of witchcraft
or demonic sorcery, but was nevertheless burned at the stake in
1634. The entire case was a travesty. Outside investigations found no
credible evidence of real possession, and in the course of the events
several of the nuns themselves publicly recanted. Ironically, after
Grandier’s execution, the possessions continued. Either some of the
nuns had truly come to believe in the reality of their feigned symp-
toms or they simply enjoyed the attention that the affair brought to
themselves and their convent.
LOVE MAGIC. Producing affection or arousing discord between peo-
ple, as well as increasing or impeding sexual fertility, have always been
among the principal uses to which magic has been put throughout his-
tory. In medieval and early-modern Europe, such love magic took the
form of a wide variety of popular spells and charms. Witchcraft was
often strongly associated with the negative aspects of love magic.
Witches were thought to be able to arouse enmity, jealousy, and hatred
between people. Most especially they were thought to afflict sexual
fertility. The harmful sorcery, or maleficium, that witches performed
LOVE MAGIC • 85

was believed to be able to cause impotence in men and prevent con-
ception in women. Witches were also thought to cause miscarriages
and stillbirths. The infamous witch-hunting manual Malleus malefi-
carum, in particular, contains extensive discussion of the sexually de-
structive aspects of witchcraft.
LUTHER, MARTIN (1483–1546). The primary figure responsible for
launching the Protestant Reformation in the early 16th century,
Luther challenged ecclesiastical authority and traditional medieval
theology in many ways. On the question of witchcraft, however, he
accepted the real existence of witches and all the aspects of medieval
theology and demonology that underlay the idea of witchcraft. In fact,
the great stress he laid on the power of the devil to tempt and assail
humans might have disposed him to be more concerned about witch-
craft than many earlier religious authorities. He never wrote about
witchcraft or sorcery exclusively, but he did discuss such matters in
sermons and biblical commentaries, and he made clear on many oc-
casions that he believed witches were a serious threat to Christian so-
ciety, and that they needed to be rooted out and destroyed.
LYCANTHROPY. See METAMORPHOSIS; WEREWOLVES.
– M –
MALEBRANCHE, NICOLAS (1638–1715). A French philosopher
born in Paris, Malebranche studied theology at the university there.
In 1660, he entered the Catholic religious order of the Oratorians, in-
tending to pursue his studies of the early church father Augustine of
Hippo, until he encountered the highly rationalist philosophy of
René Descartes. In his major work, De la recherche de la vérité (The
Search after Truth), published in 1674, Malebranche espoused a near-
complete skepticism about witchcraft. The devil, he argued, had
very little real power in the world, and so most of the alleged crimes
of witchcraft could not be real. When not based on completely false
accusations, they arose from delirium, mental instability, and an in-
ability to distinguish delusion from reality on the part of those who
confessed to such crimes.
86 • LUTHER, MARTIN (1483–1546)

MALEFICIUM. In the broadest terms, the crime of witchcraft as it
was conceived in late-medieval and early-modern Europe may be said
to consist of two elements, the practice of harmful sorcery, most of-
ten known in Latin as maleficium, and the practice of demon-worship,
idolatry, apostasy, and other related heretical elements, usually de-
scribed collectively as diabolism. While diabolism was unique to
witchcraft in the Christian West, the practice of harmful sorcery is the
defining characteristic of witchcraft, understood in a broader sense, in
most cultures around the world.
In the historical European context, maleficium could involve any
number of harmful acts or crimes performed through sorcery. Typical
aspects of maleficium included causing disease or death, impeding
sexual activity and reproduction in either human beings or livestock,
impeding the fertility of crops, bringing pestilence or famine to a re-
gion, causing destructive storms or hail (or in coastal regions caus-
ing storms at sea), committing theft through sorcery, performing love
magic to arouse either affection or enmity between people, causing
pregnant women to miscarry, and killing small children. Accusations
of maleficium most often arose when some otherwise unexplainable
misfortune struck an individual, a family, or in some cases an entire
community. The misfortune was blamed on the enmity of one or
more sorcerers or witches, and by punishing these people, relief
could be gained, or at least the assurance that such misfortune would
not occur again in the future. Surviving trial records from the period
of the great witch-hunts show that, in almost all cases, the initial ac-
cusation or accusations that sparked a hunt dealt solely with malefi-
cium. Most often only in the course of a trial or hunt were elements
of diabolism imposed by authorities, either ecclesiastical or secular.
As a crime that supposedly caused real harm, albeit by magical
means, maleficium fell under the jurisdiction of secular authorities
throughout the Middle Ages and early-modern period. When ecclesi-
astical authorities sought to prosecute a case of witchcraft, they had
to bring charges of heresy related to elements of diabolism, although
this was not typically difficult to do since most authorities held that
much, if not all, harmful sorcery was performed by invoking demons
and offering them sacrifices or worship. During the period of the
most intense witch-hunting in the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries,
many secular authorities, as well as ecclesiastical ones, were prima-
MALEFICIUM • 87

rily concerned with the diabolical aspects of witchcraft, not so much
with the mere practice of maleficium. It is notable that in the British
Isles and other regions of Europe where witch-hunting was notice-
ably less severe, elements of diabolism were never fully integrated
into the stereotype of witchcraft, and many trials continued to focus
exclusively or mainly on maleficium. Although still seen as a serious
crime and a real threat, harmful sorcery alone could not usually gen-
erate the level of panic or fear of widespread diabolical conspiracies
needed to launch a full witch-hunt.
MALLEUS MALEFICARUM. Certainly the most famous treatise on
witchcraft and witch-hunting ever written, the Malleus malefi-
carum (Hammer of Witches) was authored by the Dominican in-
quisitor Heinrich Kramer probably in 1486 and was first printed no
later than 1487. Since its first publication, the work has generally
been attributed to two men, Kramer and his fellow Dominican in-
quisitor Jakob Sprenger. It has long been clear, however, that
Kramer was by far the principal author. Strong evidence now exists
the Sprenger contributed very little or even nothing to the work aside
from his name, which was used to lend authority to the treatise
(Sprenger being a theologian educated at the university at Cologne
and a prominent figure in the Dominican order). A letter, only dis-
covered in 1972, written by Sprenger’s successor in the office of
prior of the Dominicans in Cologne, a man who knew Sprenger well,
explicitly stated that he had nothing to do with the composition of the
Malleus maleficarum.
The Malleus is written like a scholastic theological treatise. In its con-
tents, however, it reveals itself to be a practical handbook rather than a
theoretical work. Much of the material it contains was intended not to
convince educated scholars but for use in sermons to inform the public
of the dangers of witchcraft and as a guide for those who would be re-
sponsible for uncovering and prosecuting this crime. The treatise is
composed in three sections. The first part focuses on the nature of witch-
craft, describing it as a form of heresy that arises because of the evil will
of the devil and the complicity of human witches. In particular, the
Malleus argues that women, being weak of will and lesser in faith, are
far more susceptible to the seductions of the devil than are men, and
thus are far more likely to become witches. The author stresses, how-
88 • MALLEUS MALEFICARUM

ever (as do all medieval and early-modern religious authorities), that
witchcraft is only possible through the tacit permission of God, who al-
lows the devil to tempt and humans to exercise free will. The second
section focuses on the activities of witches. Here less attention is given
to ideas of pacts with demons and other elements of diabolism inher-
ent in witchcraft, and more focus is laid on the actual harmful sorcery,
or maleficium, that witches perform—killing or causing disease in hu-
mans or animals, raising storms or hail, afflicting fertility, causing im-
potence, murdering babies, and so forth—as well as to potential reme-
dies that can be used against such bewitchment. The third section then
discusses legal procedures to be used in cases of witchcraft, including a
variety of questions to be asked during interrogations of accused
witches and directions for the application of torture.
The Malleus maleficarum has long enjoyed the reputation of being
the preeminent piece of literature on witchcraft produced in medieval
and early-modern Europe. There is no doubt that the book was very in-
fluential, going through numerous printings during the 15th, 16th, and
17th centuries. However, very little research has been done to verify
exactly how, where, and when it was regularly employed. Throughout
the period of the witch-hunts, the Malleus was in no way a definitive
source on all aspects of witchcraft, even in Roman Catholic countries
and for officials of the church. Later authors did not necessarily agree
with the Malleus on all points, and later treatises on witchcraft, such as
those by the French demonologist Jean Bodin and the Jesuit Martin
Del Rio, enjoyed even greater success and influence. Particularly in the
severity of its misogyny and its stress on the essentially female nature
of witchcraft the Malleus appears to have been unique.
MANDRAKE. A poisonous herb native to the Mediterranean region,
mandrake has long been thought to possess magical powers and has
been used in a wide variety of spells and potions. The ancient Greeks
associated the plant with the semi-divine sorceress Circe. The power
of the mandrake was attributed to its root, which appears to be a small,
human-shaped figure. Supposedly, the mandrake will shriek loudly
when uprooted and will kill whoever digs it up. A special procedure
for collecting mandrake was therefore developed. A sorcerer or witch
would dig up most of the plant but not fully remove it from the
ground. A dog was then tied to the plant with a rope, and the human
MANDRAKE • 89

would leave. The dog, trying to follow its master, would pull the man-
drake from the ground, whereupon the animal would be struck dead
and the human could return to collect the root. Witches were said to
pick the root from beneath gallows trees, where it supposedly grew
from the blood of hanged criminals. Aside from supposed magical
qualities the mandrake is highly toxic. It has therefore frequently been
used in a variety of poisons and also, in lesser quantities, as an anes-
thetic for medical purposes.
MAP, WALTER (ca. 1140–1208/10). An English cleric who served as
a royal justice under King Henry II, from about 1182, Map recorded
various stories, anecdotes, and observations in a work entitled De
nugis curialium (On the Folly of Courtiers). Here, he included ac-
counts of diabolical pacts, demonic activity, sorcery, and heresy. He
described a heretical sect known as Publicans or Patarines, the mem-
bers of which gathered secretly to feast, celebrate, and worship a de-
mon, who appeared in the form of a large black cat. Although Map
did not describe them in any way as witches, his account of their ac-
tivities, and the stereotypes of heretics upon which it drew, would ob-
viously influence the later image of the witches’ sabbath.
MATHER, COTTON (1663–1728). The son of the important Puritan
minister Increase Mather, Cotton himself became a leading minis-
ter in the Massachusetts colony and was more closely involved in
matters of witchcraft than was his father. He firmly believed in the
reality of witches and the dangerous satanic threat that they suppos-
edly represented. He, therefore, supported witch trials and witch-
hunting in his sermons and writings. In 1689, he published Memo-
rable Providences Relating to Witchcraft and Possessions, recounting
the dangers of witchcraft. The book helped to set the stage for the ma-
jor outbreak of witch-hunting at Salem, Massachusetts, in 1692.
Once these trials began, Mather met with other Boston ministers to
discuss the matter. Although he was concerned about the difficultly
in determining a true case of witchcraft, especially when only spec-
tral evidence was available, nevertheless Mather, along with the
other ministers, encouraged local authorities to seek out and prose-
cute witches vigorously. In 1693, he wrote The Wonders of the Invis-
ible World, justifying his support for the trials in Salem.
90 • MAP, WALTER (CA. 1140–1208/10)

Shortly after the trials in Salem, a backlash began to occur against
rampant witch-hunting in the New England colonies, and so public
opinion began to turn against Mather, who remained firm in his con-
victions regarding the dangerous threat that witches posed. His repu-
tation suffered, and, among other consequences, this contributed to his
being passed over several times for the presidency of Harvard Col-
lege. In reaction to this perceived insult, Mather began to take an in-
terest in the Connecticut College School, and in 1718 he wrote an im-
passioned letter to Elihu Yale, urging him to endow this institution,
which would thereafter bear his name. The founding of Yale Univer-
sity is surely among the most admirable consequences to be associ-
ated, however distantly (it seems Elihu Yale was moved by other pleas
for support far more than by Mathers’), with the Salem witch-hunts.
MATHER, INCREASE (1639–1723). A prominent Puritan minister
and one of the most important men in colonial Massachusetts in his
day, Increase Mather was educated at Harvard and Trinity College,
Dublin. He served as a minister in the Church of England until 1661,
when he returned to Massachusetts. Alarmed at what he perceived to
be a growing religious laxness, and especially by reports of witch-
craft, in 1684 he published An Essay for the Recording of Illustrious
Providences. In this work, which did not deal solely with witchcraft,
Mather recorded a variety of supernatural occurrences, including de-
monic activity and demonic possession. The book became very pop-
ular in the New England colonies. A few years later, in 1692, a series
of witch trials took place at Salem, Massachusetts. In the wake of
these trials, the most severe case of witch-hunting seen in Colonial
America, Mather published a work entitled Cases of Conscience in
1693. Here he argued the need for greater caution in prosecuting
witchcraft, especially if only spectral evidence was available. He
concluded, however, in support of all the convictions at Salem. In-
crease’s son Cotton Mather was more directly and significantly in-
volved in matters of witchcraft than was his father.
MEDEA. One of the great female sorceresses of classical mythology,
Medea was the daughter of the king of Colchis, and a priestess of
Hecate, the ancient Greek goddess of magic and witchcraft. She was
also sometimes depicted as related to the other great classical sorceress,
MEDEA • 91

Circe. When the hero Jason came to Colchis in search of the Golden
Fleece, Medea fell in love with him and aided him with her magic,
which was often dark and murderous. When Jason attained the fleece
and fled Colchis, to delay pursuit, Medea performed a spell that in-
volved killing her own brother and dismembering his body. In Greece,
she used magic to kill Pelias, the usurper of Jason’s kingdom. Later,
when Jason fell in love with another princess, Medea gave her a robe as
a gift that caused her to burst into flame when she put it on. Medea then
killed her own children by Jason and fled in a dragon-drawn chariot. In
the medieval and early-modern periods, she became a literary archetype
of the witch, especially of the notion that witches were motivated by
carnal passions.
METAMORPHOSIS. Among the powers that witches were com-
monly believed to possess was that of metamorphosis, the ability to
alter their own shape, usually into that of some kind of animal. In par-
ticular, witches were often thought to be able to turn themselves into
werewolves, and there is a strong historical connection between
witchcraft and lycanthropy. Authorities in medieval and early-mod-
ern Europe differed as to the reality of such transformations, how-
ever. For example, Jean Bodin accepted its reality, while the
Malleus maleficarum, following the arguments of Thomas Aquinas
on the nature and extent of demonic power, held that such changes
were just illusions created by demons and not real alterations of sub-
stance.
MIDWIVES. A great deal of modern scholarship on witchcraft main-
tains that midwives were especially vulnerable to accusations of this
crime, and figured prominently in many trials. As healers, they were
widely believed to have access to spells for magical healing and other
occult remedies, and they could easily become suspect of wrongdoing
if a birth did not go well. Much feminist scholarship in particular has
focused on the idea of the supposed midwife-witch. Observing that
midwives occupied one of only a few positions of public power and au-
thority open to women in premodern Europe, these scholars have ar-
gued that the tarring of midwives with accusations of witchcraft was an
attempt by male authorities to reduce or eliminate powerful, indepen-
dent roles for women in society. Recently, however, the entire premise
92 • METAMORPHOSIS

of such arguments has been called into serious question. Careful study
of trial records reveals that very few midwives were ever actually ac-
cused of witchcraft. Rather than vulnerable and marginal members of
society, they had to be respectable and trusted in order to succeed in
their profession. It now seems clear that many historians have been led
astray by a few spectacular cases, by the extended reference to mid-
wife-witches in the infamous witch-hunting manual Malleus malefi-
carum (noted for a level of misogyny that is not, in fact, present in
many other major treatises on witchcraft or demonology), and by a tra-
dition of association that originated in the now-discredited work of
Margaret Murray.
MODERN WITCHCRAFT. See WICCA.
MOLITOR, ULRICH (ca. 1442–1507/08). An early author on witch-
craft, Molitor was born in the southern German city of Constance. He
was educated there and at the university at Pavia, where he received his
degree in canon law. He served as an official in the episcopal court in
Constance and then in the court of Duke Siegmund of Tirol. It was
while in the service of the duke that he composed his treatise De lamiis
and phitonicis mulieribus (Concerning Witches and Women For-
tunetellers), completed in 1489. Molitor wrote this work in the form of
a dialogue between those who accepted the idea of witchcraft and those
who did not, and thereby revealed how this concept was still taking
shape and gaining credence in the late 15th century. He concluded, for
example, following the tradition of the canon Episcopi, that witches
did not really fly through the night to a sabbath, but argued that the na-
ture of their heresy remained the same, even if their actions at the sab-
bath (devil-worship, rejection of the Christian faith, and so forth) were
only illusory. Many of his ideas about witchcraft were influenced by
the inquisitor Heinrich Kramer, who had conducted several witch tri-
als in Tirol, and whose own great treatise on witch-hunting, Malleus
maleficarum, had been published only a few years earlier in 1487.
MONTAIGNE, MICHEL DE (1533–1595). One of the most important
French philosophers of the early-modern period, Montaigne exhibited
a powerful skepticism and uncertainty about the basis of human
knowledge in almost every area. His guiding motto was que sais-je?
MONTAIGNE, MICHEL DE (1533–1595) • 93

(what do I know?). He did not deny the reality of witchcraft outright,
but rather argued that, given human nature, it was likely that human
deceit or error were involved in most cases of supposed witchcraft.
Given this uncertainty, it was generally unwise, he maintained, for au-
thorities to prosecute people as witches.
MORA WITCHES. One of the most severe witch-hunts in Scandi-
navia occurred in 1669 in Mora, Sweden. Like the later trials at
Salem, Massachusetts, which they influenced, the trials at Mora
were instigated mainly by the accusations of children. In July 1668,
a 15-year-old boy accused an 18-year-old girl of stealing children
for the devil. The next year, a royal commission was appointed to in-
vestigate the matter. This investigation, which relied heavily on the
testimony of children, uncovered a major supposed diabolic con-
spiracy. Witches would kidnap children in the night and spirit them
away to a sabbath held in a mythic location known as Blåkulla. Sev-
eral hundred children came forward with similar testimony about be-
ing kidnapped. Although the case certainly represents a major hunt
by Scandinavian standards, the figures in the Mora trials have often
been exaggerated. In all, some 60 suspects were interrogated, and 23
people were sentenced to death. These executions also helped to in-
spire other trials in a panic that spread throughout Sweden, eventu-
ally reaching the capital at Stockholm and even into Swedish pos-
sessions in Finland.
MORGAN LE FEY. One of the major characters in the legends and lit-
erature surrounding the mythic King Arthur of Britain, Morgan le Fey
(i.e., Morgan the fairy) is depicted as a powerful sorceress. Although
she is either Arthur’s sister or half-sister, and although the 15th-
century author Thomas Mallory described her as learning her magic
in a nunnery, there are elements of pre-Christian supernaturalism
about her. Although far removed from the typical image of the witch
in late-medieval and early-modern Europe, nevertheless Morgan pro-
vided a literary archetype for powerful and threatening female magic.
MURRAY, MARGARET (1863–1963). A British Egyptologist, arche-
ologist, and anthropologist, early in the 20th century, Murray devel-
oped the theory that historical witchcraft was in fact the remnant of
94 • MORA WITCHES

an ancient pagan fertility religion. Her ideas were viewed with skep-
ticism in the academic community, but in the 1950s Gerald Gardner,
the founder of modern witchcraft, or Wicca, was inspired by them.
Murray, born to British parents in Calcutta, studied Egyptology at
the University of London and became a professional academic Egyp-
tologist. She was also interested in anthropology, however, and espe-
cially in the history of witchcraft. In 1921, she published her first
book on this subject, The Witch-Cult in Western Europe, in which she
argued that witches really had existed in medieval and early-modern
Europe, not as Christian heretics or devil-worshipers, but as clan-
destine practitioners of a pre-Christian fertility religion. She was in-
spired by the anthropologist James Frazer’s theories about fertility
cults in his famous book The Golden Bough (1890). In her second
book on witchcraft, The God of the Witches (1931), she traced the his-
tory of the Horned God, a male pagan fertility deity. She claimed
that this horned deity was the basis for the idea of the devil presiding
over a witches’ sabbath. Her most radical book, however, was her
last, The Divine King of England (1954). Here she maintained that
every English king from William the Conqueror in the 11th century
to James I in the 17th was secretly a practitioner of the ancient fer-
tility religion of witchcraft and that the deaths of many important fig-
ures in English history could be explained as ritual murders commit-
ted by this fertility cult.
Murray never advanced any strong evidence to support her theories,
her arguments were based mostly on conjecture and coincidence (and
in her final book, at least, on outright conspiracy theories), and her
ideas were always controversial in the academic community. Since the
publication of her final book in the 1950s, her ideas have been almost
completely discredited. However, her theories were an important in-
spiration for modern witchcraft. In his book Witchcraft Today, for
which Murray wrote the introduction, Gerald Gardner, the founder of
modern witchcraft, maintained that he had discovered a surviving
coven of traditional, hereditary witches. He claimed that he had been
initiated into their ancient religion, which he intended to reintroduce
to the modern world. For a time, the idea that witchcraft was a direct
survival of an ancient pagan religion was an essential part of Wiccan
belief. By the 1990s, however, in the face of mounting historical evi-
dence to the contrary, most Wiccans had abandoned Murray’s theory.
MURRAY, MARGARET (1863–1963) • 95

– N –
NECROMANCY. Technically referring to a form of divination that
involves summoning the spirits of the dead, throughout much of the
medieval and early-modern periods, necromancy came to mean de-
monic magic, and specifically a complex, learned form of ritual de-
monic invocation. Some of this confusion might have arisen from the
Christian notion that the spirits of the dead, be they in heaven or hell,
could not be summoned to return to earth, and so any sorcerer or di-
viner claiming to do so was in reality summoning demons who
merely took the form of a dead person. The famous Witch of Endor,
for example, who is described in the Bible as summoning the spirit
of the dead prophet Samuel for King Saul, was widely thought by
medieval authorities to have summoned a demon instead.
In the early Middle Ages, ecclesiastical authorities largely dis-
missed the potential power and reality of demonic magic, believing
that demons typically engaged only in deception and illusion. How-
ever, in the 12th and 13th centuries, a large number of classical, Jew-
ish, and Arab texts describing learned magical practices were discov-
ered or rediscovered in Western Europe. Some of these systems of
magic involved rituals to summon spirits or even explicitly to sum-
mon demons. Many European clerics became interested in this new
form of learning, and the practice of necromancy began to spread (al-
though still, of course, limited to a small and clandestine group).
Based on learned texts and ancient traditions, necromancy in the later
Middle Ages was clearly an elite form of magic restricted to the edu-
cated, and often to the clerical, classes. It typically entailed using com-
plex, often quasi-religious ceremonies and rituals to summon and com-
mand demons. Such magic was not suited to the masses and could never
become widespread. However, it did serve to increase ecclesiastical
concern over demonic magic generally. Although many necromancers
were in fact clerics of some level, ecclesiastical authorities became con-
cerned that, instead of commanding the demons they invoked, they
were worshiping them. By the late 14th century, arguments were estab-
lished that almost all demonic magic necessarily involved the worship
of demons. This belief helped pave the way for the demonization of
common harmful sorcery, or maleficium, and the development of the
idea of widespread demonic witchcraft in the centuries to come.
96 • NECROMANCY

NEO-PAGANISM. In the second half of the 20th century, a wide vari-
ety of new religious systems emerged, largely based on nature wor-
ship and New-Age spirituality, and patterned off of or maintaining a
supposed connection to ancient pre-Christian European religions,
mainly varieties of Celtic and Norse paganism. These are collec-
tively referred to as new- or neo-paganism. Modern witchcraft, or
Wicca, comprises by far the largest segment of the neo-pagan spec-
trum of movements.
Although by no means adhering to a single unified or coherent sys-
tem of belief, most forms of neo-paganism share certain basic simi-
larities. They arose after World War II and first began coming to
prominence in the 1960s as a response to the notion that the tradi-
tional Western religions no longer adequately met modern spiritual
needs and were in fact authoritarian and repressive, particularly to
women. Most neo-pagan groups stress a high degree of individuality
and tolerance for individual spiritual pursuits, provided these do not
infringe on the rights of others or bring harm to other people. Groups
as widely disparate as modern witchcraft and modern Satanism ad-
here to the basic creed, first advanced by the English ritual magician
and occultist Aleister Crowley: if it harms none, do what you will.
Most forms of neo-paganism stress worship and concern for nature,
and thus are closely tied to the rise of modern environmentalist ide-
ologies, and many varieties of neo-paganism also place a high em-
phasis on feminine spirituality, according women an equal if not su-
perior place to men in their systems of belief and practice. Thus,
neo-paganism, and especially Wicca, can be seen as related to the
growth of modern feminist ideologies since the 1960s and 1970s.
Most modern pagans also practice ritual magic in some form and be-
lieve in its real efficacy.
NEW ENGLAND. See COLONIAL AMERICA, WITCHCRAFT IN.
NIDER, JOHANNES (ca. 1385–1438). A Dominican friar, theologian,
and religious reformer, Nider wrote some of the most extensive and
important early accounts of witchcraft to appear in Europe in the
first half of the 15th century. Above all his Formicarius (The
Anthill—a moralizing dialogue between a theologian and student
that takes ants as its organizing image), written mostly in 1437 and
NIDER, JOHANNES (CA. 1385–1438) • 97

early 1438, was very influential. It was printed in seven separate edi-
tions from the late 1400s down to 1692, in other words throughout
the entire period of the great witch-hunts. In addition, it served as an
important source of information for the later Dominican Heinrich
Kramer, author of the Malleus maleficarum, first published in
1487. The fifth book of the Formicarius, which deals specifically
with “Witches and their Deceptions,” was printed along with the
Malleus in some later editions.
Born sometime in the early 1380s in the small town of Isny in
Swabia in what is now southern Germany, Nider studied at Cologne
and Vienna. He then attended the Council of Basel, where he began
collecting many contemporary stories and examples of witchcraft
that he would include in his Formicarius. In that work, he described
witchcraft in much the form that it would take throughout the later
period of the witch-hunts. Witches were evil sorcerers who per-
formed harmful sorcery, maleficium, with the aid of demons. They
attained this power by surrendering themselves to Satan. Gathering at
secret nocturnal conventicles (Nider never used the terms synagogue
or sabbath), they worshiped a presiding demon or the devil himself,
offered sacrifices to him, desecrated the cross and other religious ob-
jects, killed and ate babies and young children, and engaged in sex-
ual orgies. Nider never described witches as flying to such gather-
ings, and elsewhere in the Formicarius he explicitly denied the reality
of night flight, although he did not deny the basic power of demons
to transport people through the air if they wished.
In another work, the Preceptorium divinae legis (Preceptor of Di-
vine Law), Nider attempted to provide a guide to various problems of
religious belief and practice based on the Ten Commandments. In this
work, he included some important sections on demonic magic and
witchcraft under the heading of the First Commandment, which
stated that one should not worship any other deities before the one
Hebrew, and later Christian, God. Demonic invocation, magic, and
witchcraft were thought by medieval theologians to entail the wor-
ship of demons and thus constituted idolatry.
One particularly important aspect of the witch stereotype that
Nider developed was the presumption that women were more in-
clined toward witchcraft than men. In fact, Nider was the first learned
authority to advance this position. Although he presented many ex-
98 • NIDER, JOHANNES (CA. 1385–1438)

amples of male witches, he also discussed many female witches.
Nider described women as weaker than men in body, mind, and spirit.
Thus they were more prone to the seductions and temptations of the
devil and submitted more quickly to his service than men. This basic
line of argument would become much more pronounced in the ex-
tremely misogynist Malleus maleficarum.
NIGHT FLIGHT. Witches were widely supposed to have the power to
fly through the air. In particular, they were thought to fly to their se-
cret nocturnal gatherings, known as sabbaths. They often did so on
brooms, staves, or occasionally on animals, and this became the stan-
dard image of the night flight of witches. The idea of malevolent su-
pernatural beings or of humans empowered by supernatural beings
flying through the night and bringing harm to unsuspecting innocents
is ancient and widespread, appearing in some form in many human
cultures throughout history. In Christian Europe, the idea was codi-
fied at least as early as the famous 10th-century canon Episcopi, and
the beliefs upon which the canon was based clearly went back much
further, most likely to Germanic notions of the Wild Hunt.
The canon Episcopi described groups of “wicked women, who . . .
believe and profess that, in the hours of the night, they ride upon cer-
tain beasts with Diana, the goddess of the pagans, and an innumerable
multitude of women, and in the silence of the night traverse great
spaces of earth.” The canon went on to state, however, that this belief
was entirely false and that such supposed flight was only an illusion
created by demons. Throughout the Middle Ages, such beliefs were
often associated with the practice of sorcery, but authorities generally
paid them little concern. Only in the 15th century, as the idea of the
witches’ sabbath began to develop, did the idea of night flight become
particularly important. Such flight began to be regarded as the means
by which witches would travel to their secret nocturnal gatherings.
This meant, however, that if authorities wanted to regard the events of
a sabbath as real, night flight also had to be real, and they had to dis-
regard the tradition of the canon Episcopi. Some authorities decided
that flight must still be an illusion, and so, therefore, must the entire
sabbath, but they concluded that accused witches might still be con-
demned just for believing that they had taken part in such an event.
Most authorities, however, were able to argue for the reality of night
NIGHT FLIGHT • 99

flight. Because the ability of demons to transport objects through the
air was accepted, they argued that although such flight could some-
times be an illusion as stated in the canon Episcopi, there was no rea-
son that, in other cases, it could not be entirely real.
There is now much evidence to support the idea that the wide-
spread belief in night flight throughout Europe was at least partially
based on the survival, in practice or simply in common folklore, of
certain forms of archaic shamanism. In many different locations
throughout Europe, historians and anthropologists have uncovered
ideas of special people or groups of people who were believed to be
able to travel at night in spirit form, most often to battle evil spirits
in order to ensure fertility for the coming season. The most well-
known example of such a group would be the benandanti of north-
ern Italy. Surviving fragments of such beliefs, misinterpreted by au-
thorities or misremembered by the people themselves, may well
have contributed to the concepts of night flight and the witches’ sab-
bath across Europe.
NORTH BERWICK WITCHES. The trials of the so-called North
Berwick witches are among the most famous in Scottish history,
mainly because of the direct participation of the Scottish king,
James VI (later also James I of England). The experience of these
trials, held in 1590 and 1591, probably provided the king with im-
portant inspiration to write his Daemonologie (Demonology), first
published in 1597. The trials began when a maid named Gillis Dun-
can, a resident of the town of Traneten near Edinburgh, began to ex-
hibit certain apparently magical healing powers. Her employer was
convinced that she must be a witch. She was interrogated and the
devil’s mark was found on her throat. She was imprisoned and
forced to implicate other witches from Edinburgh and the surround-
ing region. These people were also arrested, and several were ques-
tioned in the presence of King James VI, who had an interest in mat-
ters of witchcraft and demonology. Torture was used, and
eventually confessions were extracted. The witches supposedly met
at regular sabbaths in the town of North Berwick, about 25 miles
east of Edinburgh. These gatherings might be attended by as many
as 100 witches. In particular, the accused confessed to trying to kill
the king by raising a storm at sea as he journeyed back from Den-
100 • NORTH BERWICK WITCHES

mark. The trials of the North Berwick witches helped to inspire an
upsurge in other trials around Scotland.
– O –
OBSCENE KISS. The osculum infame or obscene kiss refers to the
kiss witches were often thought to have to give the devil on his but-
tocks or anus as a sign of their homage and subservience to him while
he presided over a witches’ sabbath. A kiss was a typical sign of rev-
erence in medieval society, and a kiss on the anus symbolized the
profound inversion and obscenity entailed in witchcraft. Similar ac-
tions such as kissing demons or animals (the devil was often thought
to preside over a sabbath in animal form) had earlier been attributed
to medieval heretical groups.
OBSESSION. See POSSESSION.
OINTMENTS. Supposedly magical ointments might consist of almost
any grease-like substance spread over the body or some object. His-
torically, witches were thought to use ointments in many of their
magical operations. The two chief uses of ointments were as poison
to kill people or cause disease, and for night flight. Witches were
commonly thought to know many recipes, often supposedly learned
from the devil in the context of a witches’ sabbath, for making poi-
sonous ointments that they would then spread on peoples’ skin to in-
jure or kill them. Witches were also often thought to anoint them-
selves or various instruments such as brooms with other ointments in
order to fly. Use of such ointments has led to speculation on the part
of some scholars that at least some aspects of witchcraft can be at-
tributed to the use of hallucinogenic compounds. Recipes for certain
ointments supposedly used by witches are recorded in treatises on
witchcraft. Some of these would clearly be toxic. Others, if spread
on the skin, could produce a trance-like state and delusions of flight.
ORGIES. In medieval and early-modern Europe, witches were thought to
be sexually driven and sexually promiscuous people. One of the main
features in descriptions of the witches’ sabbath was the participation of
ORGIES • 101

witches in sexual orgies with each other and with demons who were
also present at these gatherings. The notion of people gathering in secret
and engaging in wild, orgiastic rites was a common element of medieval
clerical diatribes against most forms of heresy, carried over and applied
also to witches when the concept of a diabolically organized, heretical
cult of witches developed in the late Middle Ages. Certain aspects of the
stereotype might have derived from surviving descriptions of ancient
pagan fertility festivals, such as the Roman Bacchanalia. Within mod-
ern witchcraft, or Wicca, certain groups perform some rituals nude
(skyclad, as it is often termed). This is thought to reduce inhibitions
within the group and promote the flow of magical energies. Some crit-
ics of Wicca, however, fixate on such practices and continue to associ-
ate modern witchcraft with sexual immorality.
– P –
PACTS, DEMONIC. The notion of a pact with demons or with the
devil, either explicit or tacit, was for Christian authorities in medieval
and early-modern Europe an essential element of most forms of sor-
cery, and this was one of the central crimes entailed in witchcraft.
The roots of the Christian notion of the demonic pact are found in the
Bible, chiefly Isaiah 28:15, given in the early-modern King James’
Version as, “We have made a covenant with death and with hell we
are at agreement.” The medieval Latin Vulgate actually uses the word
pact: “. . . et cum inferno fecimus pactum.” Early church fathers such
as Origen (185–254) and Augustine of Hippo (354–430) began to
link the performance of sorcery and divination to pacts made with
demons. Augustine in particular viewed the entire world in terms of
a struggle between demonic and divine power, and he contrasted the
evil of demonic magic starkly with the good and salvational power of
divine miracle in his famous City of God and other works. His no-
tions of demonic pacts would form the essential foundation on which
all later Western Christian thought on this subject was based.
For much of the early Middle Ages, Christian authorities seem to
have been relatively less concerned about real demonic power in the
world than they would later become, although Augustine’s notions of
demonic pacts did enter into official ecclesiastical canon law at this
102 • PACTS, DEMONIC

time. Around the 12th century, Christian authorities became increas-
ingly concerned about demonic activity. In the 13th century, the great
theologian Thomas Aquinas began to develop the notion of the de-
monic pact and its connections to demonic sorcery to a further extent.
By the end of the 14th century, the theologian and inquisitor Nicolau
Eymeric developed a detailed argument proving that all demonic
sorcery necessarily involved the agreement and cooperation of
demons. Sorcerers had to worship these demons and form pacts with
them, either explicitly or implicitly, and so were guilty of terrible
idolatry and heresy.
When the full stereotype of European witchcraft finally developed
in the 15th century, the pact with the devil was central to the entire
concept of how witchcraft supposedly operated. Typically at a sab-
bath, new witches were thought to be required to renounce their faith
and swear loyalty to the devil. Increasingly, accounts came to de-
scribe a formal, written agreement signed by the witch, often in
blood. The notion of a pact made with the devil in order to attain
wealth, power, or worldly pleasure also existed outside of the stereo-
type of witchcraft. Probably the most famous story of a human en-
tering into a pact with the devil is that of the German magician Faust.
PAGANISM. Historically used by Christian religious authorities to refer
to any form of polytheistic religious belief, in contrast to the three main
monotheistic religions of the West—Christianity, Islam, and Ju-
daism—the term paganism derives from the Latin pagus, meaning the
countryside, and paganus, meaning rustic people, generally. In late an-
tiquity, as Christianity became the dominant religion in the Roman
world, it was initially centered in the cities, and so early Christians be-
gan to use the term pagan to describe those who held to the older, poly-
theistic religions of the ancient world. During the Middle Ages, Celtic,
Germanic, and Slavic tribes that had not yet converted to Christianity
were labeled pagans. There is no evidence of any direct connection be-
tween historical witchcraft and paganism in any form. However, in the
late 19th and early 20th centuries, certain professional and amateur
scholars, most notably the British Egyptologist and anthropologist
Margaret Murray, advanced the argument that historical witchcraft
actually represented the covert but direct survival of pagan religion into
the Christian era. Encountering pagan rituals still practiced among the
PAGANISM • 103

common people, Christian authorities supposedly condemned these
practices as devil-worship and thus created the stereotype of witchcraft
and cults of witches gathering at ritual sabbaths.
Although certain elements of the historical stereotype of witchcraft
were clearly influenced by the remnants of some ancient, pre-Christian
practices, for example the shamanistic fertility rites practiced by the
northern Italian benandanti, the notion that pagan religiosity survived
intact throughout the medieval and early-modern periods never found
any firm support and has long since been discredited in historical
scholarship. Nevertheless, such notions were crucial to the develop-
ment of modern witchcraft, or Wicca. The early founders of this
movement, following the arguments of Margaret Murray, believed or
at least claimed they believed that they had rediscovered an authentic,
ancient, pagan religion. Even within Wicca, this view has since largely
been abandoned, however, and most modern witches, along with prac-
titioners of other variants of modern neo-paganism, recognize that
they are developing new religious systems creatively based on ancient,
pagan models.
PARACELSUS (PHILIPPUS AUREOLUS THEOPHRASTUS
BOMBAST VON HOHENHEIM) (1493–1541). A Swiss physician
and alchemist, Paracelsus was never involved in any aspect of
witchcraft, and he was in fact skeptical of much magic based on in-
cantation and ritual demonic invocation. He did, however, believe
strongly in what might be called natural magic. That is, he believed
that occult properties and powers existed in natural substances and
throughout the natural world, including the stars and planets. Magi-
cians, sorcerers, and cunning men and women, he felt, often knew
how to employ these natural properties for magical healing or for
other purposes. Using such practices, common healers often excelled
educated physicians in the effectiveness of their remedies.
After studying medicine in Vienna and Italy, Paracelsus traveled
extensively throughout Europe. Originally going by his given name
of Theophrastus, he eventually took the name Paracelsus to denote
his connection to the famous ancient Roman physician Celsus. He
gained a considerable reputation as a healer. His acerbic personality,
however, guaranteed that he was never popular, and he rarely stayed
in one position for very long.
104 • PARACELSUS (1493–1541)

PENTAGRAM. The pentagram or pentacle, a five-pointed star usually
inscribed within a circle, is an important religious symbol for mod-
ern witchcraft, or Wicca. The five points of the star are typically in-
terpreted as representing the divine, or alternately humanity, in har-
mony with the four natural elements. This symbol has little
association with historical witchcraft. Magical circles of various
sorts, often with stars or other occult symbols inscribed within them,
were frequently employed to perform ritual magic, especially ritual
demonic magic or necromancy, in the medieval and early-modern
periods. The use of such symbols was then revived in the modern era
by occult groups such as the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn.
An inverted pentagram (with a single point of the star facing down as
opposed to the Wiccan pentagram in which the single point faces up)
has also been adopted as the symbol of Baphomet by the modern
Church of Satan, and this or similar symbols are frequently used by
many groups practicing modern Satanism.
PERKINS, WILLIAM (1555–1602). A major English authority on de-
monology, witchcraft, and witch-hunting, Perkins was a fellow of
Christ’s College at Cambridge. His major work, Discourse on the
Damned Art of Witchcraft, was published posthumously in 1608 and
soon surpassed even the Daemonologie of King James I to become
the standard authority on matters of witchcraft in England in the 17th
century. Perkins relied heavily on the Bible for his condemnation of
witchcraft, but drew relatively little from earlier, continental authori-
ties, with the notable exception of Nicholas Rémy, on whom he re-
lied heavily
PICCO DELLA MIRANDOLA, GIANFRANCESCO (1469–1533).
A nephew of the more famous Renaissance philosopher Giovanni
Picco della Mirandola, Gianfrancesco was also a Renaissance hu-
manist by training. He did not, however, share in the skepticism
about witchcraft that some humanists showed. In 1523, he was pres-
ent for several witch trials in Bologna, and from this experience he
wrote Strix sive de ludificatione daemonum (Strix, or the Deceptions
of Demons—strix was a term for witches at this time). In this dia-
logue, several characters debate about the reality of witchcraft and
then question an actual witch. In the end, the skeptical character in
PICCO DELLA MIRANDOLA, GIANFRANCESCO (1469–1533) • 105

the dialogue is convinced of the error of his position and accepts the
reality of witchcraft. Written in Latin, the work was translated into
Italian as early as 1524.
POISON. Historical witches were often accused of using poisons to
harm or kill others. In some cases, people accused of witchcraft may
in fact have been skilled herbalists capable of producing very dan-
gerous poisons. The root of the mandrake plant, for example, often
associated with witchcraft, could be very toxic. More often, however,
the supposed link between witchcraft and poisoning was more fan-
tastic. Witches were often described as receiving various poisons,
along with other magical ointments, from the devil at a witches’
sabbath. They would use these poisons to kill or injure people at the
devil’s command.
POLAND. See EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN.
POSSESSION, DEMONIC. Referring to cases where a demon or the
devil has supposedly entered a person’s body and taken control over
physical actions and to some extent the mind and personality, pos-
session, and its near equivalent obsession, in which demons were
thought to afflict people from outside of their bodies, was often as-
sociated with witchcraft. Witches were believed to be able to send
demons to afflict people whom they wished to harm. In cases of pos-
session, they often employed some item of bewitched food to convey
the demonic spirit into the person. According to some authorities, ap-
ples were particularly useful for this sort of activity. In cases of ob-
session, the demon was sometimes thought to appear, visible only to
the person it was afflicting, in the form of the witch herself. This
formed a basis for some cases of spectral evidence.
During the Middle Ages, the church prescribed exorcism as a rem-
edy for possession. The basis for the power of exorcism, as for pos-
session itself, is found in the Bible, primarily the New Testament pas-
sages in Matthew 8:28–32, Mark 5:2–13, and Luke 8:27–33, in
which Christ encounters a possessed man (or two possessed people
in Matthew’s account) and frees him by commanding the demons to
enter a herd of swine, which then drown themselves. In early Chris-
tianity, possession, and more so obsession, was often thought to be a
sign of holiness. Much early Christian demonology was developed in
106 • POISON

the deserts of Egypt by hermit monks who frequently believed them-
selves to be assailed by and in spiritual conflict with demons. By the
later Middle Ages and the early-modern period, possessed people
were often thought to have been victims of witchcraft. Perhaps the
most famous such case occurred in a convent in the French town of
Loudun where several nuns claimed to have been possessed because
of the sorcery of a local priest. The charges were false and in fact
were politically motivated, and the whole affair was a ruse, but the
priest was, nevertheless, eventually burned at the stake. Another fa-
mous case linking possession to witchcraft occurred in Salem, Mass-
achusetts, where a major witch-hunt began when several young girls
began to exhibit signs of possession, obsession, and bewitchment.
Throughout the period of the witch-hunts, exorcism remained a
common remedy for possession in Catholic lands. In Protestant coun-
tries, where the clergy had abandoned the formal rite of exorcism,
people resorted to prayer. In addition, to free themselves from sup-
posed demonic assault, people often turned to a variety of common
spells and charms that could be acquired from cunning men and
women. The causes of possession could vary, from outright decep-
tion as in the Loudun case, and possibly in the case of Salem as well,
to real mental illness or dementia. Authorities did recognize that
some cases of apparent possession might be caused by such factors,
and many skeptical authorities, such as Johann Weyer, argued that
many aspects of witchcraft and demonic activity were in fact signs of
physical diseases and should be treated medically, not spiritually.
PRICKING. A method of detecting witches during the period of the
major European witch-hunts was to prick the skin of suspects with a
needle or some sharp object. Witches were often thought to have dead
areas of skin that would not bleed and were insensitive to pain. Such
an area of flesh was evidence of the devil’s mark, a spot where the
devil had branded the witch in his service. The process of pricking
was especially humiliating because it required the suspected witch,
usually a woman, to disrobe before authorities. Such marks were gen-
erally thought to be located on very private and thus easily concealed
areas of the body, such as near the genitalia, although they could be
found anywhere and were even thought to move around the body.
PROTESTANT REFORMATION. See REFORMATION.
PROTESTANT REFORMATION • 107

– R –
REFORMATION. The Protestant Reformation of the 16th century and
the Catholic Counter-Reformation that occurred to some extent in re-
sponse to the Protestant challenge contributed to the fear of witch-
craft in Europe in complex ways. Although Protestant leaders like
Martin Luther and Jean Calvin rejected many aspects of medieval
theology and canon law, they did not challenge any of the basic no-
tions of medieval demonology on which the idea of diabolical witch-
craft rested. In fact, many Protestant leaders were acutely concerned
about the power of the devil to assail human beings on earth. In
Calvinist Scotland, for example, and especially in Puritan New Eng-
land, the severity of the witch-hunts was at least partly caused by the
profound concern of religious leaders over demonic and diabolic
threats to their communities. Severe witch-hunts also took place in
Catholic lands, however, and there were many Protestant lands where
witch-hunting was relatively mild, so concern over witchcraft was
clearly not linked exclusively to any one religious confession.
The social and political conflicts that emerged out of the Reforma-
tion, and especially the bloody religious wars that gripped Europe in
the 16th and 17th centuries, seem to have contributed to witch-hunting
only indirectly. That is, there is no clear correlation between confes-
sional strife and frequency of witch trials, although confessional con-
flict certainly added to the general level of social instability that, in
turn, might have led to increased concern over witchcraft and facili-
tated witch-hunting. The increased attention to issues of morality and
concern over personal and communal religious belief that arose in this
period caused by both the Protestant and Catholic Reformations also
certainly helped to create a general atmosphere in which the fear of
witches and witch-hunting could flourish.
R ´EMY, NICHOLAS (1530–1612). An important French demonologist
who claimed personally to have condemned over 900 witches in tri-
als during a 10-year period in Lorraine, Rémy is the author of Dae-
monolatreiae (Demonolatry), first published in 1595. This became
one of the major treatises on witchcraft and demonology of the 17th
century, ranking in importance with those of Jean Bodin and Mar-
tin Del Rio. The authority of Rémy’s treatise was augmented by the
108 • REFORMATION

author’s extensive personal experience with witches and in conduct-
ing witch trials.
Born at Charmes in Lorraine, Rémy came from a family of lawyers
and in his turn went to study law at the university in Toulouse. After
serving in Paris from 1563 until 1570, he became Lieutenant General
of his native département of Vosges in Lorraine. Shortly thereafter,
he became privy councilor to the duke of Lorraine. It was in this pe-
riod that Rémy claimed to have sentenced over 900 witches, although
this number cannot be confirmed from surviving records and he him-
self only mentions 128 witches by name. He began to become con-
cerned about witchcraft, apparently, in 1582, when his oldest son
died only shortly after Rémy had refused alms to an old beggar
woman. Convinced that she was a witch who had murdered his son,
he put her on trial. In 1591, he was appointed attorney general of Lor-
raine and was able to influence the prosecution of witches in the en-
tire region. In 1592, an epidemic struck the city of Nancy, and Rémy
left for an extended stay at a country estate, where he began com-
posing the treatise based on his experiences.
RENAISSANCE. See HUMANISM.
RUSSIA. See EASTERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN.
– S –
SABBATH, WITCHES’. As conceived by both religious and secular
authorities in the late-medieval and early-modern periods, witchcraft
entailed membership in a heretical, explicitly diabolic cult. Authorities
were thus convinced that witches gathered at secret, typically noctur-
nal assemblies, where they would summon demons or Satan himself,
offer up their worship, receive instructions, and engage in a variety of
nefarious and horrific activities. Most aspects of the witches’ sabbath
(also known early on as a synagogue) were clearly derived from long-
standing medieval stereotypes concerning heresy and heretical cults,
and some stereotypes concerning Jews, although these stereotypes
were of course modified and some elements were unique to the
witches’ sabbath. Perhaps the most notable unique element was the
SABBATH, WITCHES’ • 109

concept of night flight, that is, that witches would fly on certain
nights to very large gatherings, often held on remote mountain peaks.
The concept of the sabbath was crucial to the development of witch-
hunting because it implied that witches did not act alone, but rather
as part of a large, diabolically organized conspiracy, and that any ac-
cused witch could be expected, indeed often required, to identify other
witches.
The idea of the sabbath developed in the 15th century. At this time,
ecclesiastical authorities, especially inquisitors, were taking a major
interest in demonic magic and sorcery. Demonic magic had always
been associated with heresy. By the late 14th century, the inquisitor
Nicolau Eymeric provided the definitive theological argument that
demonic magic necessarily entailed the worship of demons and was
thus always heretical. It was, therefore, natural for authorities to be-
gin associating stereotypical heretical behavior with witches. All of
the sources on witchcraft from the early 15th century included some
mention of the notion that witches were members of diabolical cults
that met in secret. The most explicit in these terms was the Errores
Gazariorum (Errors of the Gazarii), a brief tract that referred to such
gatherings as synagogues, and described them in horrible detail. By
1458, the inquisitor Nicholas Jacquier, in his Flagellum haeretico-
rum fascinariorum (Scourge of Heretical Witches), was using the
term sabbath.
Descriptions of the witches’ sabbath could vary, but certain general
characteristics were almost always present. Witches would gather in
secret at night. They would most typically fly to a sabbath on
brooms, staves, or other common items, although some authorities,
especially early on, denied the reality of such flight. In this, they fol-
lowed the tradition of the canon Episcopi, which stated that such
night flight was only an illusion caused by demons. Following this
argument, these authorities then had to maintain that the entire expe-
rience of the sabbath was only an illusion. For most authorities, how-
ever, the horrors of a sabbath were terribly real. At these gatherings,
witches would invoke their demonic master, often summoning the
devil himself, who would typically appear in the form of a black cat,
goat, or other animal. Witches would then formally renounce their
Christian faith and offer him their worship, usually symbolized by the
osculum infame or obscene kiss on the devil’s buttocks or anus. They
110 • SABBATH, WITCHES’

would also engage in feasts, dancing, and other revels, culminating in
indiscriminate sexual orgies with each other and with the attendant
demons. Sources typically revel in relating how men coupled with
men and women with women, and even members of the same family
with one another—brothers with sisters, and mothers and fathers with
sons and daughters. The murder of babies and young children also
typically played an important part in the sabbath. Witches either
killed and ate these children as part of their feasts, boiled down the
bodies to make magical powders, potions, and ointments, or they did
both. The size of a sabbath could vary from a small group of 10 or 20
witches (there is no historical evidence for the supposedly traditional
coven of 13) to huge gatherings ranging up to several thousand
witches. Perhaps the greatest sabbath was that supposedly celebrated
each April 30 on Walpurgisnacht on the peak of the Brocken in the
Harz Mountains in Germany.
The sabbath obviously was meant to symbolize a complete inver-
sion of every imaginable aspect of natural order—religious, sexual,
social, and familial norms were all horrifically subverted. Most of the
aspects of the sabbath—worship of the devil in animal form, the ob-
scene kiss, desecration of religious artifacts, sexual orgies, etc.—
were drawn directly from earlier medieval stereotypes about gather-
ings of heretical cults. The murder and cannibalism of babies was
often associated with both heretics and Jews in the Middle Ages.
There is some credible evidence that aspects of the sabbath, espe-
cially night flight, were derived from common folk beliefs. Thus, the
sabbath may in part represent the remnants of archaic shamanism,
belief in nocturnal spirit battles, and other fertility rites evident in
many areas of Europe. The most direct roots of the sabbath, however,
seem clearly to lie in the linkage between demonic magic and the
heretical worship of demons, as well as in standard Christian stereo-
types of heretical and non-Christian groups.
SALAZAR FRIAS, ALONSO DE (ca. 1564–1635). A cleric and in-
quisitor in Spain, in 1609, Salazar Frias was appointed to the regional
inquisitorial tribunal in Logroño in the Basque lands in northern
Spain. Numerous witch trials had been conducted at Logroño, result-
ing in many hundreds of confessions and convictions. Salazar Frias,
however, expressed considerable skepticism regarding the procedures
SALAZAR FRIAS, ALONSO DE (CA. 1564–1635) • 111

used in these trials, and was gravely concerned that convictions were
being obtained from inconclusive evidence and forced confessions.
The Suprema, the central council of the Spanish Inquisition in Madrid,
directed him to undertake an inspection of the courts throughout the re-
gion for which his tribunal was responsible. In an investigation in 1611
and 1612, he confirmed his suspicions that many witch trials were be-
ing conducted improperly. As a result of his report, the Suprema issued
a directive to all inquisitorial tribunals throughout Spain, instructing
them to enforce stricter procedures in witch trials conducted under their
jurisdiction. This careful application of proper legal procedure helped
to reduce significantly the number of witch trials, and especially the
number of convictions and executions for witchcraft, in Spanish lands.
See also INQUISITORIAL PROCEDURE.
SALEM, WITCHCRAFT AT. The most severe, important, and cer-
tainly most famous case of witch-hunting in Colonial America took
place in the summer of 1692 at Salem, Massachusetts. The panic
started when some young girls began to exhibit strange symptoms af-
ter playing at fortune telling, and ended with 19 people executed by
hanging and one being pressed to death. Two more of the accused
died while in jail, and a total of more than 100 people were impris-
oned. Although witch trials were by no means unknown in New Eng-
land in the 17th century, the events at Salem were extremely severe
given the overall size of the population involved. The 20 executions
constitute well over half of all executions for witchcraft in the New
England colonies for the entire century.
This major outbreak of witch-hunting began when several young
girls, including the daughter of the minister of Salem Village, Samuel
Parris, began to play at divination, trying to learn the identities of
their future husbands. Shortly thereafter they began to exhibit nerv-
ous symptoms that the people of Salem took to be evidence of de-
monic possession and bewitchment. The symptoms grew worse and
spread to other girls and young women. Under questioning, the girls
accused three women—Sarah Goode, Sarah Osborne, and a West In-
dian slave named Tituba—of having bewitched them. Goode and Os-
borne denied the charges, but Tituba, for reasons unknown, confessed
to having had dealings with the devil. In the wake of this confession,
fear grew and accusations multiplied, spreading from Salem Village
112 • SALEM, WITCHCRAFT AT

to the larger Salem Town and coming to the attention of clergy in
Boston, where Cotton Mather and other leading ministers debated
the matter. They expressed caution and the need for reliable evidence.
Mather was especially concerned about the reliance on spectral evi-
dence, in which victims claimed to have seen the spectral shape of a
witch, invisible to others, tormenting them. Nevertheless, these min-
isters did nothing to halt the trials and in fact encouraged local au-
thorities to root out all potential witches. The first execution took
place on June 10, 1692, and the last on September 22.
After the executions, however, the severity of the hunt created a
backlash. Many people became concerned about the use of evidence
in the trials, and skepticism about the girls’ initial accusations grew.
Ultimately, even Increase Mather, the father of Cotton Mather,
preached the need for restraint in witch trials, arguing that it was bet-
ter for a true witch to go free than for an innocent person to be killed.
Because of this backlash, the trials at Salem effectively marked the
end of witch-hunting in New England.
SANDERS, ALEX (1926–1988). The self-proclaimed “King of the
Witches,” Alex Sanders was an important figure in the early devel-
opment of modern witchcraft, or Wicca, in England. He founded the
so-called Alexandrian tradition of witchcraft, which differed from the
Gardnerian tradition derived from the founder of modern witchcraft,
Gerald Gardner.
According to Sanders’ own account, his grandmother was a hered-
itary witch, that is, one whose knowledge of witchcraft had been
passed down through her family. When he was seven, she initiated
him into the ancient religion of the witches. His later writings on
witchcraft, however, reveal the strong influence of the writings of
Gerald Gardner and others in the Gardnerian tradition. Sanders
claimed that these similarities were because Gardner himself had
taken many elements from hereditary witchcraft, and that he, Sanders,
actually represented a more genuine tradition. Sanders sought public-
ity to an even greater extent than Gardner did, and he helped to gen-
erate much media interest in Wicca in the late 1960s and 1970s. Al-
though Alexandrian witchcraft is rather clearly derived from the
original Gardnerian tradition, Sanders introduced some important new
elements. He stressed ritual magic much more than Gardner did, and
SANDERS, ALEX (1926–1988) • 113

developed more formal and elaborate rites. Some have referred to the
Alexandrian tradition as “high church” witchcraft.
SANTERI´A. Like Voodoo, Santería is a syncretistic religion in which
African spirits and deities have been assimilated with Roman
Catholic saints and other religious figures. Santería developed first
among African slaves brought to the Americas and forced to convert
to Catholicism. The religion is now widespread in many parts of
Latin America and also in North American cities with large Hispanic
populations. Many people see no conflict or difficulty in practicing
Santería and Catholicism together. In Santería, deities are known as
orishas. They are powerful and sometimes capricious in nature. The
sacrifice of animals to the orishas is a major element of the religion.
Typical sacrifices include chickens and roosters, pigeons and doves,
and even goats and pigs. Cats and dogs are often rumored to be used
when casting harmful spells. Especially in the United States, this
practice arouses strong opposition from people who suspect that
these animals are tortured before they are killed, or who fear that pets
might be stolen for sacrifice.
Santería is infused with magical practices. The orishas can be pro-
pitiated to heal illness or injury, to provide good luck, to incite love, or
for many other positive purposes. Practitioners of harmful magic or
witchcraft supposedly also exist, however. These people are often
known as mayomberos or “black witches.” These witches are regarded
similarly to how supposed witches were seen during the period of the
major European witch-hunts. They are entirely evil creatures who fre-
quent graveyards and often employ parts of dead bodies in their spells.
The principal tool of the mayomberos is a magical cauldron known as
a nganga, in which such parts can be mixed with other magical ingre-
dients. Mayomberos are often considered to be in league with the devil.
SATANISM. Referring to the worship of Satan, the Christian devil, Sa-
tanism has long been associated with witchcraft. In the medieval and
early-modern periods, Christian authorities, both ecclesiastical and
secular, assumed that all witches were in league with Satan. They
were guilty of heresy, idolatry, and apostasy, having supposedly re-
nounced the true faith and offered worship to the devil instead, most
notably at secret nocturnal gatherings known as witches’ sabbaths.
114 • SANTERÍA

In exchange for this worship, the devil taught them magical arts and
gave them power to command demons and to perform maleficium,
harmful sorcery, at his direction. Although it is entirely possible that
some individuals during the period of the great witch-hunts actually
did worship Satan, there is absolutely no evidence that most accused
witches did so, or that any large, organized Satanist groups ever ex-
isted. Rather, the supposed worship of the devil, along with atten-
dance at sabbaths, sexual orgies, the murder and cannibalism of
children, and the possession of demonic familiars (collectively of-
ten referred to as diabolism) were largely creations of ecclesiastical
and secular authorities forced on people in the course of trials, often
through the use of torture.
In the modern period, Satanism can have two meanings. Again, it
can refer to the supposed worship of the Christian devil. Allegations
of the existence of Satanist groups worshiping the devil through ani-
mal or human sacrifice, often involving the kidnapping, sexual mo-
lestation, and frequently the murder of babies and young children, oc-
cur regularly throughout the Western world. Many of the activities
detailed in such allegations—secret gatherings of a conspiratorial
cult worshiping the devil, performing obscene rites, and harming
children—are very reminiscent of historical accusations of witch-
craft. No credible evidence has ever been uncovered, however, that
any such large, organized form of Satanism really exists.
Modern Satanism can also refer to actual, organized, and open Sa-
tanist groups, the largest and most famous of which is the Church of
Satan, founded in San Francisco in the 1960s. These groups, how-
ever, do not really worship Satan in the sense of the actual Christian
devil, perceived to be the incarnation of all evil and immorality.
Rather, such groups reject the Christian moral structure entirely and
idealize instead principles of personal freedom, individuality, and
pleasure (often specifically carnal pleasure), which they believe
Christianity has wrongly condemned and associated with evil. Such
groups actually adhere to their own strict, although non-Christian,
moral code, and absolutely forbid the use of animal, let alone human,
sacrifice or any form of non-consensual sexual activity, such as the
sexual molestation of children.
Neither form of modern Satanism is an aspect of modern witch-
craft, or Wicca. Actual Satanist groups like the Church of Satan share
SATANISM • 115

some basic similarities with modern witchcraft. Both are marked by
a rejection of Christianity and both practice and believe in the real ef-
ficacy of some forms of magic. Otherwise, however, modern Sa-
tanism and modern witchcraft have nothing to do with one another,
and indeed the two groups generally have little respect for one an-
other (it should be noted that modern, organized Satanism is an ex-
tremely small movement, much smaller than the large and growing
number of Wiccan groups). Modern witches are, of course, also
sometimes still associated with the other supposed aspects of Sa-
tanism—worshiping the devil, killing children, and so forth. Such
practices are completely antithetical to modern witchcraft, however,
and insofar as there is no credible evidence that any organized groups
practice this form of Satanism, there is certainly no evidence that any
Wiccan groups do.
SCANDINAVIA, WITCHCRAFT IN. Scandinavia experienced sig-
nificantly less witch-hunting than did the lands of the German Em-
pire immediately to its south. As elsewhere in Europe, belief in
harmful sorcery was widespread in the Scandinavian countries—
Denmark, which during this period also ruled Norway, and Sweden,
which controlled much of Finland. Yet all told, there were less than
2,000 executions for witchcraft in Scandinavian lands. One of the
major factors holding down the number of witch-hunts seems to have
been a late and incomplete acceptance of the full stereotype of witch-
craft, which included diabolism as well as the practice of malefi-
cium, or harmful sorcery. In addition, the use of torture was limited
in Scandinavia, although by no means totally restricted.
Perhaps not surprisingly, Denmark, the country closest to the Ger-
manic heartland of the witch craze, experienced the most severe
hunts, with around 1,000 executions, a significant number for a coun-
try with such a small population (slightly over half a million people).
In addition, hunts began there around the middle of the 16th century,
earlier than in other regions of Scandinavia. Still the severity of the
hunts was limited. In 1547, a law was passed declaring that the testi-
mony of certain criminals, including those guilty of performing sor-
cery, could not be used to convict others, and this obviously reduced
the potential for individual accusations of witchcraft to grow into
large hunts. In addition, the application of torture was forbidden un-
116 • SCANDINAVIA, WITCHCRAFT IN

til after a death sentence had been passed. In Norway, hunts were
even less severe, with only about 350 executions for witchcraft. Most
convictions were for maleficium, particularly raising storms at sea,
and did not include much evidence of diabolism, although demonic
pacts and demonic magic were certainly not unknown.
In Sweden, too, charges of witchcraft generally focused more on
maleficium than diabolism. Witch trials began in the second half of the
16th century, but less than 500 people were executed in Sweden and
Swedish-controlled Finland. Nevertheless, the potential for large
hunts did exist. The most severe broke out in 1668 in the north of
Sweden and eventually spread to much of the country, including parts
of Finland. The panic lasted until 1676, when the central Court of Ap-
peal in Stockholm began to take a more direct role in investigating the
evidence (rather than simply confirming convictions as it had done
earlier). All told, more than 200 people were executed, making this by
far the most severe phase of the witch-hunts in Sweden, although still
mild compared to some of the major hunts elsewhere in Europe.
SCOT, MICHAEL (ca. 1175–1235). A scholar in the service of the
German emperor Frederick II, Scot was interested in magic and oc-
cult learning, especially in systems of astrology. He devised cate-
gories of permissible and impermissible magic and divination, and
he wrote about and described methods of demonic invocation, al-
though he was careful to condemn such practices. Despite this care,
he developed a dark reputation as a powerful demonic sorcerer,
something that often developed around medieval scholars with inter-
ests in the occult.
SCOT, REGINALD (1538–1599). One of the earliest and fullest skep-
tics of witchcraft, Scot published his important Discoverie of Witch-
craft in 1584. It was at the time one of only a handful of books writ-
ten on the subject in the English language. Scot was born into the
landed gentry in Kent and attended Oxford University but did not
stay to receive a degree. He was briefly a member of Parliament but
lived mostly as a country gentleman. His interest in witchcraft seems
to have arisen from pure intellectual curiosity and not from any prac-
tical experience or professional involvement. This might help to ex-
plain his extreme skepticism on the subject.
SCOT, REGINALD (1538–1599) • 117

In his Discoverie, Scot went beyond mere criticism of the proce-
dures and methods of witch trials, to which many other critics of
witch-hunting limited themselves both before and after him. Instead,
he attacked the very basis of the idea of witchcraft: the witches’ pact
with the devil in exchange for the ability to perform demonic sorcery.
Scot maintained that the devil had no real power in the physical world,
and so even those who truly believed themselves to be witches were
incapable of performing any of the acts for which they were held
guilty. In fact, Scot felt that most people convicted for witchcraft were
either entirely innocent but were victims of trial procedures, especially
the use of torture, that virtually guaranteed conviction, or they were
senile or deluded in some way. There were some witches, he main-
tained, who did work real harm, but they did so through natural means
such as poison and not through supernatural demonic powers. Also
there were some frauds who claimed to have supernatural power for
their own gain. In his skepticism, and especially in his arguments
about possible natural and especially medical causes for witchcraft, he
was influenced by another skeptical writer, Johann Weyer.
SCOTLAND. See BRITISH ISLES, WITCHCRAFT IN.
SEXUALITY AND WITCHCRAFT. Historically, witchcraft has al-
ways been viewed as a highly sexually charged act. Throughout the
era of the great witch-hunts, witches were commonly thought to en-
gage in sexual activity with demons in the form of incubi and suc-
cubi. Sexual orgies were a centerpiece of the witches’ sabbath, and
as a sign of their subservience and degradation, witches were often
thought to have sex with the devil himself. Many authorities consid-
ered that sexual lust and the desire for carnal pleasures were among
the chief reasons people became witches, and this was also thought to
be one of the reasons that far more women became witches than did
men. Women were generally considered to be weaker than men, more
driven by their appetites and lusts, and far more susceptible to carnal
temptations. Sexual relations with demons or the devil were not, how-
ever, thought to be pleasurable in most cases, and the sexual organs of
these creatures were generally described as being as cold as ice. Sex-
uality also plays an important role in modern witchcraft, or Wicca, al-
though here in an entirely positive way. Much Wiccan belief centers
118 • SCOTLAND

on aspects of natural fertility, and sexual energy, properly channeled,
is thought to play an important part in many magical rituals.
SHAMANISM. An aspect of many ancient religious systems, shaman-
ism describes a variety of practices in which individuals enter an ec-
static state and believe that they are able to encounter and interact with
spirits and spiritual forces. In recent years, increasing evidence has
been uncovered linking certain aspects of historical witchcraft to
shamanism. The elements of night flight and communion with spiri-
tual forces that characterized the witches’ sabbath were at least partly
grounded in recollections of older religious beliefs and practices—the
Roman Bacchanalia festivities or the Germanic concept of the Wild
Hunt, for example—that were probably themselves rooted in archaic
shamanistic practices. The most famous example of shamanistic prac-
tices interacting with Christian notions of witchcraft was the case of
the Italian benandanti. In the modern period, practitioners of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca, and other forms of neo-paganism sometimes
incorporate aspects of shamanism into their beliefs and rituals.
SIMON MAGUS. In the Bible, the most famous magician in the New
Testament is Simon Magus of Samaria, who is described encounter-
ing Peter and John, the apostles of Christ, in Acts 8:9–24. When Si-
mon sees that they can bestow the spirit of God on someone by lay-
ing on their hands, he offers them money to receive this power, but
Peter refuses him. In apocryphal biblical literature, the rivalry be-
tween Simon Magus and the apostle Peter, also called Simon Peter,
was amplified. In the so-called Acts of Peter, for example, Simon
uses his magic to simulate bringing a dead man back to life, but only
Peter is able to truly revive him. Then Simon announces that he will
fly up to heaven, but at a word from Peter, he comes crashing to the
earth. Later medieval commentators made clear that Simon Magus
was being born aloft by demons that Peter was able to dispel. In the
Middle Ages, Simon Magus became the archetype of the demonic
magician or necromancer, and ideas about necromancy served as an
important basis for later notions of diabolical witchcraft.
SKEPTICISM. Witchcraft beliefs were never uniform across Eu-
rope, and there were always people, including some authorities, who
SKEPTICISM • 119

were skeptical of elements of the witch stereotype, the conduct of
witch trials, or even of the entire concept of witchcraft. Many au-
thorities were doubtful of the reality of certain aspects of witchcraft,
most notably night flight. Here authorities could follow the tradition
of the early canon Episcopi, which stated that such flight was only
a delusion caused by the devil. Since witches were typically as-
sumed to fly to large gatherings known as sabbaths, some authori-
ties then argued that the entire experience of the sabbath must also
be illusory. Such skepticism, however, had little effect on the over-
all course of witch-hunting, because authorities could still condemn
people for believing that they had engaged in the diabolic worship
and other horrors of the sabbath, even if these were considered to be
only illusory.
Another level of skepticism, which can be termed legal skepticism,
focused on the procedures of witch trials, especially the virtually un-
restricted use of torture in many areas. Some authorities realized that
these procedures could be used to ensure that anyone accused of
witchcraft would confess, and therefore could be convicted, regard-
less of actual guilt or innocence. They therefore sought to restrict or
eliminate witch trials, although they did not deny the basic possibil-
ity of the reality of witchcraft. Perhaps the most famous example of
such a skeptic was the German Jesuit Friedrich Spee. Such isolated
thinkers had little effect on the overall course of the persecution of
supposed witches, but more widespread legal skepticism in the late
17th and 18th centuries was an important factor in the curtailment of
witch-hunting across much of Europe even before the general belief
in witchcraft began to decline.
Of course, there were always some people who were fully skeptical
of the reality of witchcraft. Authors like Johann Weyer, Reginald
Scot, and Balthasar Bekker denied that the devil had such extensive
power over the physical world, or that human beings could enter into
pacts with demons. They thus undermined the very foundations of the
idea of witchcraft as it was conceived in medieval and early-modern
Europe. Although important, however, such thinkers were always a de-
cided minority and often themselves faced persecution because of their
more liberal ideas. See also HOBBES, THOMAS; LOOS, COR-
NELIUS; MALEBRANCHE, NICOLAS; MONTAIGNE, MICHEL
DE; PARACELSUS; SALAZAR FRIAS, ALONSO DE.
120 • SKEPTICISM

SORCERY. The term sorcery is frequently used as a synonym or near-
synonym for magic or witchcraft. While the meanings of these
words are often vague and certainly overlap, some distinctions can be
drawn. First, sorcery is often used to describe low magic, that is,
common or unlearned magic. Sorcery is supposedly performed by
simple words or actions, whereas forms of high or learned magic are
supposedly performed by complex and highly ritualized verbal for-
mulas and ceremonies. In Europe during the medieval and early-
modern periods, complex, ritualized demonic magic was often
termed necromancy and was thought to be quite distinct from com-
mon sorcery or witchcraft. Sorcery can also carry implications of
negative or harmful magic. In this sense, of connoting simple (or
low) and harmful magic, the term sorcery is very close to the term
witchcraft. It is worth noting that the English word sorcery derives
from the French sorcellerie, which means both sorcery and witch-
craft. Likewise, the common Latin term to describe harmful sorcery
during the Middle Ages and early-modern period, maleficium, also
came to mean witchcraft.
Nevertheless, the concept of sorcery can be usefully distin-
guished from witchcraft in several ways. First, sorcery does not al-
ways carry the connotation of negative or harmful magic. Sorcery
can sometimes be used to describe positive forms of magic, such as
magical healing or magical means of prognostication and divina-
tion. Some scholars, notably anthropologists studying African
witchcraft, have distinguished sorcery from witchcraft by arguing
that sorcery involves certain performed actions (spoken words or
gestures) along with the use of certain material objects to obtain de-
sired supernatural effects while witchcraft draws on some inherent
power found in the witch herself. Under this definition, anyone can
learn to be a sorcerer, but one must be born a witch. This distinc-
tion, while useful when applied to African and other societies, is not
as helpful when applied to medieval or early-modern Europe. Dur-
ing the period of the great witch-hunts, witches were believed ac-
tively to learn how to perform witchcraft from demons or from the
devil, and anyone could become a witch. But witches were also re-
garded as being in certain ways inherently evil and corrupt because
of the pacts they made with the devil and their apostasy from the
true faith.
SORCERY • 121

SOUTHERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN. The lands of Southern
Europe, Spain and Italy, each had a long association with the black
arts. Some of the earliest true witch trials in Europe had occurred in
Italy, including a trial at Rome in 1426 and one at Todi in 1428. In
Spain, it was long rumored that secret schools operated to train pupils
in black magic at Toledo and Salamanca (although the training here
was more along the lines of learned, ritual demonic magic, or necro-
mancy, and not witchcraft). Nevertheless, although belief in witch-
craft and demonic sorcery was widespread, the witch-hunts in these
lands were relatively mild, especially when one considers the number
of executions that the trials produced. In Italy, where the hunts were
more severe, probably around 1,000 witches were executed. For com-
parison, consider the fact that in Scandinavia, probably around the
same number of witches were executed in Denmark alone, which had
a population less than 1/20th that of Italy. In the British Isles, England
and Scotland, where the combined population numbered about half of
Italy’s, authorities executed at least 50 percent more witches. Witch-
hunts were even more limited in Spain, with only around 300 execu-
tions, and virtually no executions took place in Portugal.
The single greatest cause of the limited severity of witch-hunting
in southern lands was clearly the presence of large, bureaucratic, and
highly centralized ecclesiastical Inquisitions. Although papally ap-
pointed inquisitors had operated in Europe since the mid-13th cen-
tury and were in theory answerable to Rome, in fact throughout the
Middle Ages they had never been part of any overall, centralized or-
ganization. In the early-modern period, in the lands of Southern Eu-
rope, such organizations first came into existence. The Spanish In-
quisition was created in 1478 as a national institution under the
control of the Spanish king, not the pope in Rome. From a supreme
council in Madrid, the Inquisition closely controlled the operation of
numerous regional tribunals. Similarly, the Holy Office of the Roman
Inquisition was founded in 1542 by Pope Paul III to supervise and
control the operation of other inquisitorial tribunals throughout Italy
(with varying degrees of success—the Inquisition in Venice was no-
toriously independent).
The existence of these Inquisitions helped to restrain witch-hunting
activity in several ways. First, as has been shown to be true of large,
centralized judicial structures elsewhere, the Inquisitions were less in-
122 • SOUTHERN EUROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN

clined to panicky reactions based on local fears of witchcraft and were
more concerned with matters of procedure and the careful accumula-
tion and weighing of evidence. It is significant to note that charges of
diabolism in connection to witchcraft, although rooted in Christian de-
monology and theological principles, were largely absent from trials
conducted in southern lands. The major exception was the severe out-
break of witch-hunting in the Basque lands in northern Spain from
1609 to 1614, in which highly detailed accounts of diabolical sabbaths
emerged. Nevertheless, the courts in Spain and Italy rarely forced con-
fessions of diabolic activity on the accused, as often happened in north-
ern lands. Torture was only rarely applied, and almost always under
strict procedural controls. Also, in the absence of clear evidence of di-
abolism, the courts of the Inquisitions were extremely hesitant to im-
pose death sentences. The accused might still be convicted of perform-
ing sorcery of some sort, but this was often regarded as a matter for
more lenient punishment, the object being to correct error and elimi-
nate superstition, not to eradicate a perceived satanic threat to Christ-
ian society. Although secular courts in Spain and Italy seem to have
been slightly harsher in matters of witchcraft than inquisitorial courts,
when such matters came under their jurisdiction they in general appear
to have followed the model set by the Inquisitions of careful consider-
ation of evidence and adherence to procedure rather than blind panic.
SPAIN. See BASQUE LANDS, WITCHCRAFT IN; SOUTHERN EU-
ROPE, WITCHCRAFT IN.
SPANISH INQUISITION. See INQUISITION.
SPECTRAL EVIDENCE. Given the inherent secrecy in all aspects of
the crime of witchcraft, finding substantial evidence on which con-
victions could be based was always a problem for authorities. The
best evidence, of course, was the confession of the accused them-
selves, usually obtained through torture. Another possible form of
evidence, however, was spectral evidence, in which other people tes-
tified to having seen the spectral image of the witch. Such evidence
might be supplied by another accused witch, who would testify to
having seen someone in attendance at a witches’ sabbath (many au-
thorities maintained that witches traveled to sabbaths only in spirit),
SPECTRAL EVIDENCE • 123

or by victims who would testify to having seen the form of a witch
tormenting them. Many authorities argued that, although these
specters might not be the witch herself, God would never allow the
devil or a demon to impersonate an innocent person while working
evil. Others, however, were very skeptical of such testimony, and
throughout the period of the witch-hunts, spectral evidence was
never generally held to be as reliable as confession. Perhaps the most
famous case of spectral evidence occurred at Salem, Massachusetts,
where a number of young girls who exhibited symptoms of posses-
sion testified that they were often tormented by witches in spectral
forms that only they could see.
SPEE, FRIEDRICH (1591–1635). A German Jesuit and important op-
ponent of witchcraft prosecutions, Spee is the author of Cautio crim-
inalis (A Warning for Prosecutors), a major work denouncing the fre-
quent conviction of innocent people for witchcraft and the use of
excessive torture to elicit confessions from anyone accused. Al-
though Spee certainly serves as an example of skepticism about
witchcraft, his could be called a legal skepticism. That is, given the
abuses of procedure he typically witnessed in witch trials, he came to
realize that most of the people accused of the crime were innocent but
were nevertheless convicted on flimsy evidence or coerced confes-
sions. He never denied the potential reality of witchcraft or the power
of demons and the devil in the world.
Spee was born in Kaiserswerth in the Rhineland and attended the
Jesuit college in nearby Cologne. He entered the Jesuit order in 1611
and then studied at Würzburg and Mainz. In 1627, he returned to
Würzburg as a professor of theology. In the late 1620s, Würzburg and
nearby Bamberg were centers of particularly severe witch-hunting.
Spee was appointed to hear the final confessions of condemned
witches in prison. Initially fully convinced of the real threat of witch-
craft, in the course of hearing these confessions, Spee realized that
most if not all of the condemned people were innocent, and that if fair
legal procedures had been properly applied, they would never have
been convicted. He also recognized that, because witches were be-
lieved to be members of a satanic cult, convicted witches were forced
to name accomplices. Because the legal procedures in place at the
time ensured that these people too would almost certainly be con-
124 • SPEE, FRIEDRICH (1591–1635)

victed, he feared that ultimately witch-hunting might spiral com-
pletely out of control and threaten entire communities.
In 1631, Spee published the Cautio criminalis anonymously, al-
though within the Jesuit order his authorship was widely known. The
book focused on a sharp critique of the legal procedures of witch tri-
als. It never denied the potential reality of witchcraft. Nevertheless,
given the ease of false conviction, Spee ultimately came to believe
that there were very few real witches in the world. Even this some-
what limited critique of witch trials roused considerable opposition
from many proponents of witch-hunting, including many within the
Jesuit order.
SPINA, ALFONSO DE (ca. 1420–1491). A Franciscan friar who con-
verted from Judaism, Alfonso de Spina was a theologian at the uni-
versity at Salamanca, and was the personal confessor to King Juan II
of Castile. Just prior to his death, he was appointed bishop of Ther-
mopolis. Around 1459, he wrote a treatise entitled Fortalicium fidei
(Fortress of the Faith), in which he discussed various threats to the
faith, including heretics, Jews, Saracens, and demons. In the section
on demons, he also discussed witchcraft. Although Alfonso de Spina
was not the first clerical authority to describe witchcraft in the 15th
century, and his treatment of this subject was more moderate than
some, his work, printed in the 1460s, became the first published trea-
tise to deal with witchcraft.
SPINA, BARTOLOMMEO (ca. 1475–1546). A prominent Domini-
can friar and theologian, Spina studied in Bologna and Padua. He
eventually became Master of the Sacred Palace in Rome, the chief
theologian to the pope, and he was appointed by Pope Paul III to con-
sider the important theological questions raised at the Council of
Trent. He wrote several works arguing for the reality of witchcraft
and the real danger that witches represented. His major work in this
area was his Questio de strigibus (Concerning Witches), written in
1523.
SPRENGER, JAKOB (ca. 1436/38–1495). Traditionally listed as
one of the authors of the infamous late-medieval witch-hunting
manual Malleus maleficarum (Hammer of Witches), Sprenger was
SPRENGER, JAKOB (CA. 1436/38–1495) • 125

a Dominican friar, theologian, and papal inquisitor active in the
German Empire in the later 15th century. He was born in or
around the city of Basel and studied in Cologne, where in 1475 he
received his doctorate in theology. He then taught and served in
several offices at the university in Cologne. He was also an impor-
tant figure within the Dominican order. In 1472, he became prior of
the Dominicans in Cologne, an office he held until 1482, when he
was relieved in order to be able to undertake other duties as a papal
inquisitor. From 1481, he conducted numerous inquisitions into
heresy and witchcraft in the Rhineland, and later more generally
across southern Germany. In this capacity, he worked with Hein-
rich Kramer, and it was to these two inquisitors specifically that
Pope Innocent VIII directed his bull Summis desiderantes af-
fectibus, ordering all local authorities to assist them in their pursuit
of witches. In 1488, Sprenger was named to the office of Provincial
of the Dominican province of Teutonia, a position second only to
the Master General of the entire order in that region.
Although he is typically listed as an author, along with Heinrich
Kramer, of the Malleus maleficarum, there is much evidence to sug-
gest that Sprenger had little or even nothing to do with the writing of
this treatise on witchcraft. The strongest piece of evidence, only dis-
covered in 1972, is a letter written by Sprenger’s successor in the of-
fice of prior in Cologne, Servatius Fanckel. Fanckel knew Sprenger
well and explicitly stated that he was in no way involved in writing
the Malleus. Because Fanckel was, in fact, an admirer of that work,
there is no reason to suppose that he had any motive to downplay any
actual involvement Sprenger might have had. It seems likely that
Sprenger’s identification as an author of the Malleus arose because of
his association with Kramer. As Sprenger’s reputation as a theologian
and prominent Dominican was greater than Kramer’s, the addition of
his name to the work could only add to its authority.
STAMFORD WITCHES. At the same time as the major witch-hunt
in Salem, Massachusetts, was occurring, a smaller panic occurred in
Stamford, Connecticut, leading to much different results. In the
spring of 1692, a servant girl named Katherine Branch began to suf-
fer from fits, and she accused a respected local matron, Elizabeth
Clauson, of bewitching her. Eventually, five other people were im-
126 • STAMFORD WITCHES

plicated as well. One fled to neighboring New York and three others
were quickly cleared of all charges. Clauson and another woman,
Mercy Disborough, came under more severe scrutiny, but eventually
Clauson was freed. Disborough was convicted and sentenced to
death, but was later reprieved. Unlike in Salem, at Stamford authori-
ties were skeptical of the accusations from the start, and no large
panic ever developed within the community as a whole.
STARHAWK (1951– ). An important figure in modern witchcraft,
also known as Wicca, Starhawk is an American witch, feminist,
peace activist, and author. She has dedicated most of her life to teach-
ing, developing rituals, working within various organizations, and
spreading knowledge of Wicca and of neo-paganism more generally
to as broad an audience as possible. Her most important work is her
book The Spiral Dance, a reflection on and statement of Wiccan prin-
ciples, practices, and beliefs. The book, originally published in 1979,
the same year as Margot Adler’s influential Drawing Down the
Moon, has been reissued in 10th- and 20th-anniversary editions.
Born into a Jewish family, Starhawk was raised in a strongly reli-
gious household and by her own assessment was a devoutly religious
child. As she grew, however, she became deeply concerned with what
she saw as the severely limited role allowed to women in traditional
Judaism. Already by the time she entered college at the University of
California at Los Angeles, she had been exposed to various forms of
neo-pagan beliefs and felt herself drawn toward this form of religios-
ity. While in college, she was exposed more fully to Wicca. She was at-
tracted especially to the religion’s focus on worship of the Goddess
and to the elevated place it allowed to women. Upon graduating, she
briefly entered UCLA’s film school, but soon set about writing and
traveling. Eventually, she began to work on what would become The
Spiral Dance, an account of Wiccan pseudo-history, beliefs, and prac-
tices. Starhawk’s lyrical and evocative writing seemed to capture the
essence of Wiccan religiosity, highlighting especially the compatibility
of Wicca with feminist and environmentalist concerns. The success of
her book helped to spark a surge in the overall success of Wicca as a
growing religious movement. The book became an essential Wiccan
text, supplanting to some degree the writings of the founder of modern
witchcraft, Gerald Gardner, especially in America, where feminist
STARHAWK • 127

and environmentalist elements within Wicca were more developed
than in Great Britain and elsewhere.
Starhawk herself eschews any “authoritative” role in the Wiccan
or larger neo-pagan traditions. Although she has been a member of
several groups and covens, she has also developed and practiced
her beliefs alone. Much of her knowledge and inspiration, she
claims, comes from her own dreams and trance experiences. She
adheres to most standard elements of the Wiccan tradition, how-
ever, as developed by Gerald Gardner and others. She is particu-
larly credulous of the claim that modern witchcraft is a direct de-
scendant of historical European witchcraft, which was supposedly
an ancient, pre-Christian fertility religion, demonized and brutally
persecuted by the Christian church (in The Spiral Dance, she orig-
inally claimed that around 9,000,000 people were executed for
witchcraft in medieval and early-modern Europe, although in later
editions she has been forced to admit that this figure is “probably
high”). This interpretation of historical witchcraft was largely de-
veloped in the late-19th and early-20th centuries, most famously by
the British Egyptologist and amateur anthropologist Margaret
Murray. Murray’s theories have since been completely discredited,
and many modern witches now maintain that their religion is not a
direct survival of ancient pagan beliefs, but rather a deliberate
recreation of imagined forms of ancient religion. Starhawk herself,
in later editions of The Spiral Dance, argues that Wiccan beliefs are
not dependent on any real historical tradition for their validity. Nev-
ertheless, she does persist in maintaining that the supposed history
of the Wiccan faith as a truly ancient pagan religion is essentially
true, if not necessarily accurate in all details.
STORMS AND STORM RAISING. Affecting the weather and raising
destructive storms was believed to be a common element of harmful
sorcery, or maleficium, in Europe throughout the medieval and
early-modern periods, and is a standard element of harmful magic
around the world. Such weather magic was deemed particularly ap-
propriate to witches and other demonic sorcerers by Christian au-
thorities because, in Christian theology, demons were spiritual, airy
creatures and could easily manipulate the element of air. The very
earliest sources on witchcraft describe witches raising storms, espe-
128 • STORMS AND STORM RAISING

cially lightning and hail, which could destroy crops and cause wide-
spread damage to property across entire regions. The early authority
Johannes Nider gave an account of a witch performing a demonic
invocation and then having the demon raise a storm with lightning
and hail, and the Errores Gazariorum (Errors of the Gazarii), another
early source, described witches flying high into the Alps to chip off
large blocks of ice from the mountains. They then let this ice fall as
hail. One of the most famous examples of weather-working witch-
craft came in the case of the North Berwick Witches, who suppos-
edly raised several storms at sea in order to drown the Scottish king
James VI.
STRAPPADO. One of the most common means of torture used on
witches and others in the later Middle Ages and early-modern period
was the strappado (from the Latin strappare, to pull). The wrists of a
prisoner were bound behind his or her back with a rope attached to a
pulley. He was then hoisted into the air. Often weights were attached
to the prisoner’s feet to increase the weight on the arms and shoul-
ders, which frequently dislocated, causing extreme pain. The prisoner
was then left hanging in this position while being interrogated by au-
thorities. To increase the pain, the prisoner could be raised to a sig-
nificant height and then dropped suddenly to within a few inches of
the floor, exerting tremendous, sudden pressure on the arms and
shoulders.
STRIX (STRIGA). In classical mythology, striges (the plural of strix
or striga) were malevolent nighttime monsters. The Latin strix liter-
ally meant screech-owl, and the striges were believed to be birdlike
creatures with great talons. They preyed especially on sleeping men
and children. With men, they often turned themselves into beautiful
women and had sexual intercourse (thereby showing a relation to
succubi) before killing them. They were also vampires, sucking the
blood from their victims. The image of the strix contributed to the
later Christian idea of witches as women who flew at night and often
murdered babies and young children. The word also became a term
for witch in the medieval and early-modern periods.
SUCCUBI. See INCUBI AND SUCCUBI.
SUCCUBI • 129

SUMMIS DESIDERANTES AFFECTIBUS, BULL. See INNOCENT
VIII, POPE.
SWIMMING. A common, although by no means universal or univer-
sally accepted, method for identifying witches, swimming involved
binding a suspected witch and immersing her in water. If she imme-
diately floated to the surface, she was judged to be guilty. If she man-
aged to remain submerged for some period of time, she was deemed
to be innocent. The procedure operated on the theory that water was
a pure element and would reject any guilty person, causing them im-
mediately to float. Thus, the witch was bound not to prevent her from
swimming to the surface, but from deliberately keeping herself sub-
merged. Although some people could drown in the process of prov-
ing their innocence, normally the accused was not required to remain
submerged for very long. Swimming was never fully accepted by au-
thorities as a proper method of proof. It derived from notions of trial
by ordeal that had been employed in early-medieval Europe but that
were increasingly abandoned by courts with the steady adoption of
inquisitorial procedure beginning in the 12th century. Throughout
the later period of the witch-hunts, authorities often challenged the
legitimacy of swimming, and it was banned in many areas, although
this did not necessarily end its use entirely.
SWITZERLAND, WITCHCRAFT IN. Even more than the lands of
the German Empire, to which all of the Swiss Confederation be-
longed at the beginning of the period of the witch-hunts, Switzerland
can lay claim to being the real heartland of the European witch craze.
Some estimates put the number of executions for witchcraft at
around 5,000 for this relatively small region, while other estimates
range as high as 10,000. Even taking the lowest of these figures, well
over twice as many witches were executed per capita in Switzerland
than in German lands. Moreover, Switzerland experienced some of
the earliest witch-hunts in Europe in the early 15th century, and also
some of the latest. The last execution for witchcraft in Europe to re-
ceive full and unquestioned legal sanction took place in the canton of
Glarus in Switzerland in 1782. Because of this long duration, how-
ever, and because of the intense political, religious, and even linguis-
tic disunity of Swiss lands, the overall patterns of witchcraft perse-
130 • SUMMIS DESIDERANTES AFFECTIBUS, BULL

cution in Switzerland are difficult to discern, if indeed any overall
pattern can be said to exist.
The Swiss Confederation was comprised of a patchwork of inde-
pendent cantons, some containing a sizeable area and some little more
than city-states, some highly urbanized and some extremely rural.
Some regions, like Geneva and Basel, were cosmopolitan centers of
intellectual and economic activity, while others, especially in the high
Alps, were relatively cut-off and backward. In general, it can be said
that this fragmentation itself no doubt contributed to the severity of
many Swiss witch-hunts. Local courts, free from external control and
subject to the intense local fears, as well as the social and economic
pressures that might drive a hunt, were often very inclined to pursue
and promote accusations of witchcraft to the fullest extent possible.
On the other hand, larger, more centralized and bureaucratic legal
structures tended to emphasize strict adherence to proper legal proce-
dure and careful consideration of evidence, which in turn inhibited the
potential for a witch-hunt to get out of hand. Although some regions
of Switzerland experienced relatively light witch-hunting, others ex-
perienced some of the most intense and destructive hunts that oc-
curred in Europe.
– T –
TEMPLARS. The Knights of the Temple of Solomon, or Knights Tem-
plar, were a crusading, military order during the Middle Ages. The
Templars originated around 1120 in the Holy Land as a small group of
knights dedicated to defending pilgrims. The order quickly grew in size
and popularity, until the knights in the Holy Land were supported by a
large Templar network spread across Western Europe. The Templars
acquired vast amounts of land, usually through pious donations. After
the fall of Acre, the last Christian outpost in the Holy Land, in 1291,
the Templars no longer had a clear purpose, and their great wealth
aroused opposition to the order. In 1307, the Templars in France were
arrested on the order of King Philip IV. The charges ranged from
heresy and sodomy to worshiping demons, but in reality the arrests
were motivated by Philip’s desire to disband the order and seize its
tremendous wealth and property. Torture was applied, however, and
TEMPLARS • 131

confessions were extracted, although many Templars later recanted.
Under pressure from the French, in 1312 Pope Clement V officially
suppressed the order, and in 1314 the Grand Master of the order,
Jacques de Molay, was burned at the stake.
The Templars were never charged with witchcraft, and even
charges of demonic sorcery did not figure significantly in their final
condemnation. However, the dynamics of their arrest and trial, espe-
cially the use of torture to extract clearly false confessions, was rem-
iniscent of later witch trials, and the trial of the Templars is often seen
as foreshadowing in certain respects the persecution of witches that
was to come.
THOLOSAN, CLAUDE (?–ca. 1450). The exact years of Claude
Tholosan’s life are unknown, but he served as chief magistrate of
Briançonnais, the region around Briançon in Dauphiné, from 1426
until 1449. He was a layman and a secular official, although highly
educated and clearly familiar with ecclesiastical canon law as well as
certain aspects of theology. In the early 15th century, the Alpine re-
gions of Dauphiné were the location of some of the earliest witch tri-
als in European history, and in his capacity as chief judge, Tholosan
personally conducted numerous trials for witchcraft. Around 1436,
he wrote a treatise Ut magorum et maleficiorum errores manifesti ig-
norantibus fiant (That the Errors of Magicians and Witches May be
Made Clear to the Ignorant), based on his own experiences trying
witches. Unknown for many years and only rediscovered in the late
1970s, this treatise takes it place beside the works of Johannes
Nider, Hans Fründ, Martin Le Franc, and the anonymous Errores
Gazariorum (Errors of the Gazarii), as one of the most important
early pieces of literature on witchcraft. It is particularly significant
because, of all these early accounts, this is the only one for which the
author had certain first-hand experience with supposed witches.
Tholosan described witchcraft in terms fairly close to what would
become the standard stereotype. Witches performed harmful sorcery,
maleficium, through the agency of demons; they renounced their
faith and worshiped Satan; they were members of a secret sect and
gathered at regular secret meetings to worship the devil and engage in
activity that would come to typify the witches’ sabbath (although
Tholosan, as most other early authorities, denied the reality of night
132 • THOLOSAN, CLAUDE (?–CA. 1450)

flight to the sabbath). As a lay judge, Tholosan was also concerned to
justify secular authority over the crime of witchcraft, which he did by
equating the apostasy of witches to a kind of treason or lèse-majesté
against God, which the secular prince, as the representative of divine
justice and order on earth, was required to combat.
TINCTORIS, JOHANNES (ca. 1400–1469). Born in Tournai, Tinc-
toris studied theology at the university in Cologne, where he became
dean of the arts faculty, then later dean of the theological faculty and
ultimately rector of the university. Sometime before 1460, he re-
turned to Tournai, where around that year he wrote a Tractatus de
secta vaudensium (Treatise on the Sect of Witches), based on ser-
mons he had delivered.
TORQUEMADA (TURRECREMATA), JUAN DE (1388–1468). A
Spanish prelate and uncle of the more famous Tomás de Torquemada,
who was chief inquisitor of the Spanish Inquisition in the late 15th
century, Juan de Torquemada spent most of his life in Rome. In a
commentary on canon law written around 1450, he addressed the no-
tion of the night flight of witches as described in the canon Episcopi,
asserting that such flight was entirely an illusion and a deception of
demons.
TORTURE. The legal use of torture to extract confessions in court
cases has a long history in Europe. The controlled use of torture was
justified under ancient Roman law. For most of the early Middle
Ages, legal torture was not widely used. Rather, under the accusato-
rial procedure, guilt or innocence was often determined by judicial
ordeal, or in some cases trial by combat, both of which theoretically
left the determination in the hands of God, who would ensure that the
just party prevailed. With the gradual rediscovery of Roman law in
the 11th and 12th centuries, and especially with the increasing use of
inquisitorial procedure, torture also returned to use.
Torture was typically applied in cases of crimes where evidence and
witnesses were lacking. Heresy was one such category of crime, since
it involved errors of belief for which there might be no external evi-
dence. Likewise heretical demonic sorcery and ultimately witchcraft
were deemed crimes that often required torture to prosecute. Since
TORTURE • 133

there was often no external evidence or reliable witnesses in a case of
witchcraft, a witch’s own confession was the best means to secure a
conviction. Controls were placed on the legal use of torture. It was
only supposed to be applied once (although a single session of torture
could be suspended and then continued at a later date), only for a lim-
ited time, and all confessions extracted under torture had to be veri-
fied by the accused later. Authorities were fully aware, and concerned
about, the potential for torture to produce false confessions.
Especially in cases of witchcraft, however, the limits and controls
on the use of torture were often ignored. Witchcraft was considered a
crimen exceptum, an exceptional crime that, because of its severity,
had to be prosecuted to the fullest extent possible. Moreover, judges
and legal officials themselves would often become caught up in the
panic that could surround a large witch-hunt. Many authorities were
convinced that the devil made witches particularly insensitive to pain
or prevented them from freely confessing, and so extraordinary mea-
sures could be justified against them. Many other authorities, how-
ever, were concerned about the potential for unrestricted torture to
wring a confession out of almost any innocent person. This skepti-
cism about the use of torture led to much of the early criticism of
witch trials and opposition to witch-hunting. See also STRAPPADO.
TRANSVECTION. See NIGHT FLIGHT.
TRIER, WITCH-HUNTS AT. A series of severe witch trials took
place in the archbishopric of Trier, which was also an independent
principality within the German Empire, over the course of about 12
years, from 1582 to 1594. The trials were largely directed by the suf-
fragan bishop of Trier, Peter Binsfeld, under the overall authority of
Prince-Archbishop Johann von Schönenburg. Binsfeld would later
write an important treatise on witchcraft intended mainly to justify
the trials at Trier. The accusations of witchcraft seem to have been
sparked by years of inclement weather, poor harvests, and economic
suffering in the region. The initial trials were conducted in secular
court under the direction of the senior civic judge and vice-governor
of the city, Dietrich Flade. Unfortunately, Flade was less enthusias-
tic about witch-hunting than were the religious authorities, and ulti-
mately he came to be suspected of witchcraft himself. He was tried
134 • TRANSVECTION

and executed in 1589. The trials also aroused the opposition of the
theologian Cornelius Loos, who wrote a treatise expressing his
skepticism about witchcraft and the methods used in witch-hunting.
Binsfeld took action against him as well. The treatise was suppressed,
and Loos was banished to Brussels.
TRIMETHIUS, JOHANN (1462–1516). A Benedictine monk, abbot
of Sponheim and later of St. Jacob’s in Würzburg, Trimethius wrote
two works dealing, at least in part, with witchcraft. In 1508, he dis-
cussed witchcraft in his Liber octo questionum (Book of Eight Ques-
tions), in response to questions put to him by the German emperor
Maximilian I, several of which concerned witches. In the same year,
he also wrote Antipalus maleficiorum (Testimony of Witches) at the
request of the Elector of Brandenburg, which was dedicated fully to
explicating the evils of witchcraft.
– V –
VALIENTE, DOREEN (1922– ). An early member of the movement
of modern witchcraft, or Wicca, in England, Valiente was the chief
disciple of the founder of modern witchcraft, Gerald Gardner. In
the mid-1950s, she co-authored with him many of the basic Wiccan
rituals and texts that shaped the development of the new religion. She
also founded her own coven, which soon broke away from Gardner’s
overall control.
Born in London, Valiente became very interested in occultism and
considered herself to have psychic abilities. She was introduced to
Gerald Gardner, and in 1953 she was initiated by him into his coven.
Gardner claimed that modern witchcraft was a direct survival of an
ancient, pre-Christian, pagan fertility religion; that he himself had
been initiated into a coven of traditional, hereditary witches; and that
he had learned of the rituals, practices, and beliefs of witchcraft from
them. Valiente accepted all these claims, although from her own ex-
plorations of occultism, she recognized that many aspects of the prac-
tices Gardner described were based on other modern writings, such as
those of the famous ritual magician and occultist Aleister Crowley.
VALIENTE, DOREEN (1922– ) • 135

From 1954 until 1957, Valiente collaborated with Gardner on re-
working the so-called Book of Shadows, the key text of Wiccan ritu-
als. In particular, she worked to reduce those elements that were
clearly drawn from Crowley and other occultist sources, to emphasize
the role of the Goddess, and to shape witchcraft more into a modern
neo-pagan religion. Eventually tiring of Gardner’s overbearing influ-
ence, in 1957 Valiente formed her own coven and broke with Gardner.
She has continued to publish on the principles and practices of Wicca
in the years since.
VAMPIRES. There are two major connections between vampiric crea-
tures and witchcraft. In classical mythology, creatures called lamiae
and striges were monsters who haunted the night. Lamiae were
thought to attack and kill children, often sucking their blood. Striges
were bird-like creatures (the Latin strix means screech-owl) that also
sucked blood. They appear to have provided an early basis for the
later medieval and early-modern stereotype of witches as murderers
of children who flew through the night. In some regions of Europe
during the period of the witch-hunts, both lamia and strix (or striga)
were used as terms for witch. In addition to this association, another
connection between witchcraft and vampirism took shape in Hungary
and other areas of the Balkans in the 18th century. Here it appears
that popular belief in vampires gradually took over some of the social
and cultural functions that belief in witchcraft had filled. As official
willingness to prosecute witches declined, accounts of vampirism
rose, and vampires came to be seen as a cause for much otherwise un-
explainable misfortune, as witches had been earlier.
VINETI, JEAN (?–ca. 1475). A Dominican friar, Vineti was first a pro-
fessor of theology at the university in Paris and then an inquisitor at
Paris and later at Carcassonne in the south of France. Around 1450,
he wrote a treatise Contra daemonum invocatores (Against Invokers
of Demons), in which he addressed the subject of witchcraft. Vineti
was very credulous and was one of the first authorities, along with
Nicholas Jacquier and Johannes Hartlieb, to present an extended
argument against the tradition of the canon Episcopi that the night
flight of witches to a sabbath was only an illusion. Vineti maintained
that both night flight and the sabbath itself were entirely real.
136 • VAMPIRES

VISCONTI, GIROLAMO (?–1477 or 1478). A member of the
princely family of Milan, Girolamo became a Dominican friar. In
1448, he was appointed to be a professor of logic at the university in
Milan, and from 1465 until his death, he was the Dominican provin-
cial, or head of the order, in the province of Lombardy. Sometime
around 1460, he wrote Lamiarum sive striarum opusculum (Little
Book on Witches—lamia and strix both being words that meant
witch in Italy at this time). Here he argued both for the reality of
witches and for the heretical nature of witchcraft, placing them un-
der the jurisdiction of clerical inquisitions.
VOODOO. Developing originally among the slave populations of the
Caribbean region, primarily in Haiti, Voodoo is a religion that con-
sists of a complex blend of Christian and native African elements. In
this syncretism, it is similar to Santería. The word Voodoo derives
from the West African vodu, meaning spirit or deity. It can alternately
be given as Voudou or Vodoun, and practitioners generally prefer this
latter term, as Voodoo or the even worse corruption Hoodoo are often
seen as carrying pejorative connotations, denoting some sort of sys-
tem of black magic devoid of any religious meaning. In fact, it is in-
correct to equate Voodoo purely with harmful magic, although such
sorcery does have a place within the overall religious system of
Voodoo.
The basis of Voodoo is worship of the loa, spirits that can exercise
power in the world. Practitioners believe in the single great creator-
god of Christianity, but also maintain that there are numerous other
powerful spirits in the world. The loa represent a mixture of Christ-
ian saints and angels along with traditional African spirit-deities. The
Catholic Church generally equates the loa with demons and sees
Voodoo as a corruption of Christianity. Believers, however, regard it
as an enrichment of Christianity and themselves as absolutely faith-
ful Christians. The loa are neither wholly good nor entirely evil, and
so humans can access their power for a variety of purposes. Harmful
sorcery and other practices akin to witchcraft certainly have a place
in the system of Voodoo. A particularly evil form of sorcery is the
creation of zombies, animated corpses that will serve the sorcerer
who creates them. The loa also serve, however, as benign spirits, and
people pray to them for protection from harmful sorcery.
VOODOO • 137

Ideas of evil sorcery within Voodoo share many elements in com-
mon with historical ideas of harmful magic and witchcraft in Europe,
and probably derive partly from European influence along with tra-
ditional elements of African witchcraft. Sorcerers are often thought
to carry babies and young children off to secret gatherings where
they kill and devour them, or they break into homes at night and suck
the blood from children while they sleep. They are also often be-
lieved to use magic ointments that they rub on their bodies in order
to fly, just as historical European witches were often thought to do.
– W –
WALDENSIANS. Followers of a man named Valdes, a rich merchant
in Lyon in the late 12th and early 13th centuries, the Waldensians be-
came the most widespread and enduring of all medieval heretical
groups. Seeking to lead an “apostolic life” of poverty and preaching,
as described in Christ’s instructions to his disciples in the Bible, the
Waldensians were condemned by the medieval church for refusing to
accept episcopal and papal authority (first the archbishop of Lyon and
then Pope Alexander III refused to allow them, as untrained laymen,
to preach), and the movement was branded a heresy. Waldensianism
nevertheless persisted as a widespread movement in southern
France, the German Empire, and Italy for the remainder of the
Middle Ages. Waldensian groups eventually developed a number of
unorthodox doctrines and practices, but they were never particularly
associated with the practice of demonic sorcery. Then, in the 15th
century, in the western Alpine regions of Savoy, Dauphiné, and cer-
tain cantons in western Switzerland, several trials that began as in-
quisitions into Waldensian heresy shifted into some of the first
witch-hunts in Europe. In the French-speaking regions of these ter-
ritories, the word for Waldensian, Vaudois, became an early term for
witches, and certain documents described the supposed satanic sect
of witches as “. . . heresim illorum haereticorum modernorum
Valdensium”—the heresy of the new Waldensian heretics. There is,
however, no credible evidence to suggest that actual Waldensian
practice ever involved the worship of the devil or the practice of de-
monic magic.
138 • WALDENSIANS

WALPURGISNACHT. The night of April 30, prior to the feast day of
Saint Walpurga (on May 1), Walpurgisnacht was widely believed
throughout Germanic and Scandinavian lands to be a time of partic-
ular celebration and revelry for witches. On this night, witches were
believed to fly to remote mountaintops to participate in great witches’
sabbaths. The most famous of these supposedly took place on the
peak of the Brocken in the Harz Mountains in northern Germany.
Walpurgisnacht coincided with Celtic and Germanic spring fertility
festivals, and the supposed revels of witches associated with this day
may have derived at least partly from pagan religious celebrations
later demonized by Christian authorities.
WARLOCK. Because, historically, most witches were thought to be
women, an alternate term, warlock, is sometimes used in modern
writings to designate a male witch. The word derives from an Old
English term for an oath-breaker or traitor. By the mid-15th century,
it had become associated with witchcraft, although it carried no gen-
der connotations and could be used for either male or female witches.
There seems to be no particular historical basis for the modern appli-
cation of the term only to men. Among practitioners of modern
witchcraft, or Wicca, the term warlock is little used. Male practition-
ers prefer to be called witches or Wiccans, just as female practition-
ers are.
WEATHER MAGIC. See STORMS AND STORM-RAISING.
WEREWOLVES. The belief in lycanthropy, the ability of certain peo-
ple to transform themselves or be transformed into wolves, is ancient.
In Christian Europe during the medieval and early-modern periods,
many learned demonologists took the issue of lycanthropy quite seri-
ously. Like witchcraft, transformation into a werewolf was regarded
not just as a potentially harmful supernatural feat, but also as a sin
against God, a willful abandonment of the divinely ordained human
form and spirit. In many regions, suspected werewolves were often
tried in much the same manner as were witches. In addition, witches
were sometimes described as transforming themselves into wolves.
Most authorities agreed that no such physical transformation of the
human body could actually take place. However, a demon or the devil
WEREWOLVES • 139

might closely superimpose the form of a wolf over the real body of a
witch. Alternately, the transformation might simply be a demonic illu-
sion or deception.
WEYER, JOHANN (1515–1588). A physician and scholar, Weyer was
one of the first important opponents of witch-hunting. Not only did
he argue that from a legal standpoint many witch trials were deeply
flawed, but he also maintained on theological and physiological
grounds that much supposed witchcraft was impossible, or at least
could not be the work of human witches. Nevertheless, he did not
deny the reality or power of demons or of the devil, and so could not
fully undermine the basic foundations on which the idea of witchcraft
rested.
Born in Brabant in the Netherlands, Weyer grew up in a merchant
family. At the age of 15 he went to live and study with Heinrich Cor-
nelius Agrippa von Nettesheim. It was probably Agrippa who first
introduced Weyer to the Neoplatonic and Hermetic traditions of
learned Renaissance magic. After leaving Agrippa, Weyer studied
medicine at Paris and Orléans and then returned to the Low Countries
as a practicing physician. He married and in 1550 took up the post he
held for the rest of his life as the personal physician to the duke of
Cleves, whose court was centered at Düsseldorf. Sometime after tak-
ing this position, he began to become concerned with the matter of
witchcraft. Witch trials were at that time on the rise in the entire re-
gion of the lower Rhine. In response to this occurrence, Weyer pro-
duced his most important work, De praestigiis daemonum (On the
Deceptions of Demons), first published in 1563. Here he went be-
yond the sort of judicial skepticism about witch trials that was al-
ready present in his day, namely that most prosecutions for witchcraft
were improperly conducted and seriously flawed and thus often re-
sulted in false convictions. Rather he denied the very possibility of
witchcraft itself.
Weyer did not seek to deny the real existence or power of demons.
Instead he argued that demons could not be compelled by human be-
ings to perform the sorts of acts that formed the basis of accusations
of witchcraft. Drawing on his expertise as a physician, he demon-
strated that many cases of witchcraft or demonic possession were
better explained by medical conditions, such as senility or insanity.
140 • WEYER, JOHANN (1515–1588)

He also attacked the concept of the demonic pact between a witch
and the devil or a lesser demon. Viewing this pact as a contract, he
set out to prove that legally it could not exist. According to Roman
law, which formed the basis for most European law codes at this
time, a valid contract required good faith (bona fides) from both par-
ties, and could not be entered into with malicious intent. Obviously,
argued Weyer, no good faith could be expected from the devil.
Weyer’s arguments, while powerful and logically coherent, did lit-
tle to convince the many proponents of the witch-hunts that their
cause was unjust, or that the crime they opposed had no basis in re-
ality. His writings aroused great controversy and were fiercely at-
tacked by almost every later authority on witchcraft and de-
monology. As Weyer never made any attempt to deny the basic
existence of the devil and his demons, or their power, he left his later
opponents an obvious point from which to launch their attacks. Still,
the extent to which he did deny the reality of witchcraft makes him
virtually unique among early opponents of the witch-hunts.
WICCA. An alternate term for modern witchcraft, Wicca is the pre-
ferred term among many modern witches (or Wiccans). Wicca is an
Old English word for witch or more accurately sorcerer, but modern
Wiccans who prefer the word generally do so because it now carries
none of the negative stereotypes attached to the terms witch and
witchcraft. It should be noted, however, that many practitioners of
modern witchcraft staunchly maintain the use of the words witch and
witchcraft and insist that they will reclaim these words from the neg-
ative connotations that they now carry.
Modern witchcraft originated in the 1950s. The father of the move-
ment, and for all intents and purposes the founder of modern witch-
craft, was the Englishman Gerald Gardner. In 1939, Gardner, a stu-
dent of various esoteric religions, supposedly joined a coven of
witches in England. He claimed that this group was a remnant of an
ancient pagan religion practicing rites that had been preserved from
the distant past. During the medieval and early-modern periods, this
religion had been persecuted by Christian authorities as demonic
witchcraft, but in fact the religion was older than Christianity and had
nothing to do with either the Christian god or the Christian devil.
Fearing that the religion was now on the verge of dying out, in 1954
WICCA • 141

Gardner declared its existence and its principles openly in his book
Witchcraft Today.
In maintaining that modern witchcraft was a direct survival of an
ancient pagan religion, Gardner was following the theories of Mar-
garet Murray. Murray’s thesis has since been completely debunked,
and there is no credible evidence that historical witchcraft was rooted
in some clandestine pre-Christian religion, or that modern witchcraft
has any links to such a religion. It is now clear that Gardner simply
invented most of the tenets of modern witchcraft from his earlier
studies of world religions.
Modern witchcraft is by no means a single, unified, or cohesive
faith. There is no one central organization to govern beliefs and prac-
tices. The original form of witchcraft created by Gardner, now known
as Gardnerian witchcraft, is only one among many different forms
(although all forms follow at least the basic principles that Gardner
established). In general, witches are organized into groups called
covens. These are presided over by a high priestess assisted by a high
priest. Most forms of modern witchcraft give women an equal or
even a superior place to men in the religion. Similarly, the supreme
Wiccan deity is dual, taking the form of the Goddess and the God
(often known as the Horned God). Of the pair, the Goddess is gen-
erally held to be superior and is strongly associated with the earth and
nature. Modern witchcraft stresses a respect for the natural world,
and modern witches worship the Goddess and God in a variety of
ceremonies, often conducted outdoors. Practitioners of modern
witchcraft also believe that they can perform a variety of magical
spells, but always with the strict understanding that they should never
use their power to bring harm or misfortune to others.
Because of the prominent place given to the Goddess and to
women practitioners, modern witchcraft quickly drew the attention of
many feminists, who wanted to see in it an essentially feminine reli-
gion in contrast to the perceived patriarchal structures of traditional
Western religions. In 1979, the American witch Starhawk published
her book The Spiral Dance, which more than any other work marked
the successful fusion of the formal structures and beliefs of witchcraft
from the Gardnerian tradition with the notion of witchcraft as an ex-
pression of essential female spirituality. Especially in America, where
the tradition of feminist witchcraft is stronger than in Britain, this
142 • WICCA

book in large part replaced Gardner’s Witchcraft Today to become the
basic statement of the religion. Also in 1979, the journalist and prac-
ticing witch Margot Adler published her book Drawing Down the
Moon. This was the first systematic study of the beliefs and origins
of modern witchcraft. In it, Adler rejected the Gardnerian notion that
modern witchcraft was a direct survival of a real, pre-Christian reli-
gion. Instead, she recognized (as do most Wiccans today) that this
pseudo-history would be better regarded as a foundational myth, and
she argued that this realization in no way weakened the force or value
of modern witchcraft as a religion.
WILD HUNT. In Germanic and Celtic legend, the Wild Hunt consisted
of a band of ghosts or spirits who would ride through the night. The
hunt was usually led by a divine or semi-divine figure, either female,
often called Holda or Berta, or male, often called Herne the Hunter.
In Christian Europe during the Middle Ages, authorities often trans-
formed the female leader of the Wild Hunt into the classical goddess
Diana, herself a goddess of hunting whom Christian authorities re-
garded as a demon. In addition, the belief developed that groups of
women, instead of the spirits of the dead, would ride with Diana. The
most famous expression of this belief is found in the 10th century
canon Episcopi. Although condemned by the canon as mere demonic
deception, this belief was an important basis for the later notions of
night flight and the witches’ sabbath.
WILLIAM OF MALMESBURY (ca. 1095–1142). A well-known
chronicler and historian, William of Malmesbury wrote two impor-
tant accounts of the history of England up to the 12th century. In his
history of the kings of England, Gesta regum, written around 1140,
he included a brief account of the Witch of Berkeley, which later be-
came very famous and circulated also outside of William’s history for
the remainder of the Middle Ages and into the early-modern period.
WITCH BOTTLE. A form of protective charm common especially in
England, a witch bottle consisted of a small glass bottle made for a
victim of bewitchment by another witch or cunning man or woman.
Often some strands of the victims’s hair, urine, or nail clippings were
placed inside the bottle. Bottles could be used in a variety of ways. If
WITCH BOTTLE • 143

buried under the hearth or threshold of a house, they were believed to
undo harmful spells cast against that home or its residents. They
might be smashed or thrown into a fire to strike back against the
witch who had supposedly cast the original spell, causing her pain or
death. They could also be hung near doors, windows, and chimneys
to protect a home from any potential witchcraft.
WITCHCRAFT. The term witchcraft can be, and historically has been,
used to denote a variety of supposed practices. Most broadly, witch-
craft refers to relatively simple forms of common or low magic (as
opposed to learned or high magic, which is typically very complex
and ritualistic, and is limited to an educated elite) used to harmful ef-
fect. In this sense, witchcraft is largely synonymous with sorcery. In
Europe during the medieval and early-modern periods, the Latin term
for harmful sorcery, maleficium, was also the most common term for
witchcraft. Taken to mean simply the practice of such sorcery, witch-
craft can be said to have existed in almost every human society
throughout history. Some anthropologists differentiate witchcraft
from sorcery by labeling as sorcery any common magical practices
that supposedly operate through certain words or gestures, or through
certain material objects. Witchcraft, on the other hand, supposedly
operates through some power inherent in the witch herself. Thus, sor-
cery is a learned skill while witchcraft is an innate characteristic. This
distinction, however, does not pertain to witchcraft as defined during
the period of the major European witch-hunts.
During the period of the major witch-trials in Western Europe in
the 16th and 17th centuries, witchcraft was widely conceived to in-
volve the practice of harmful sorcery, maleficium, which operated
through demonic forces. Witches learned to perform such sorcery
from demons or from the devil, to whom they swore their allegiance.
Such sorcery was not the only element of witchcraft in this period,
however, and in many respects it was not the most important element.
Witchcraft was also believed to involve profound diabolism. In ex-
change for magical powers, witches abandoned the Christian faith
and gave their worship to the devil instead. They entered into pacts
with demons and gathered as members of organized cults at secret,
nocturnal sabbaths. Here, witches were believed to desecrate sacred
items, such as the cross and Eucharist, to murder and cannibalize
144 • WITCHCRAFT

small children, and to engage in sexual orgies with each other and
with attendant demons. For most Christian authorities, the apostasy
and idolatry entailed in this image of witchcraft were far worse
crimes than whatever harmful sorcery witches might work. This con-
ception of witchcraft only appeared in Europe late in the Middle
Ages, primarily in the early 15th century. Being so closely bound up
with specifically Christian notions of theology and demonology,
witchcraft in this sense obviously cannot be said to have existed in
any other world culture.
In the 20th century, witchcraft came to take on yet another mean-
ing. Self-styled modern witches conceive of witchcraft as a religious
system, based on pre-Christian, pagan models. Although some mod-
ern witches maintain that there is a connection between their practices
and historical witchcraft in Europe, they have sought to distance them-
selves from the historically negative connotations of witchcraft, and
thus modern witchcraft is often referred to as Wicca (an Old English
term for sorcery) instead. Modern witchcraft does involve certain
magical practices that modern witches believe to have real power.
WITCH DOCTOR. See CUNNING MEN AND WOMEN.
WITCH-HUNT. Although witchcraft can with some justification be
seen as an almost perennial aspect of numerous pre-modern human
cultures, and although witches were uniformly regarded within these
cultures as evil and socially harmful individuals who needed to be
punished or often eradicated, witch-hunting in the historical sense is
limited to a specific period and place. In Europe, the full notion of di-
abolical witchcraft, that is, of the witch as someone who not only
practiced harmful sorcery, maleficium, against others, but who did
so by means of demons and demonic power, and in league with the
devil, only emerged in the early 15th century. In this new conception
of witchcraft, the witch was not regarded as an individual practitioner
of evil, but was believed to be a member of a heretical sect. Witches
were thought to gather at regular nocturnal assemblies known as
witches’ sabbaths where they would commit idolatry and apostasy
by worshiping demons and surrendering their souls to the devil in ex-
change for magical powers. The belief that witches were members of
a secret, conspiratorial, diabolical cult provided the necessary basis
WITCH-HUNT • 145

for true witch-hunts, that is, series of connected witch trials that fed
off each other and resulted in numerous executions.
The first real witch-hunts took place in the 15th century, mostly lo-
cated in lands in and around the western Alps. The period of major
witch-hunting, however, occurred later, in the 16th and 17th cen-
turies. Reliable figures for many regions are lacking, but across Eu-
rope probably around 100,000 people were put on trial for witchcraft
during these centuries, and probably around 50,000 were executed.
The frequency and severity of witch-hunting varied widely from re-
gion to region and from year to year across Europe. Nevertheless,
some generalizations can be made. Central Europe, above all the
lands of Switzerland and the German Empire, were clearly the
heartland of the witch-hunts. Some of the earliest, as well as some of
the latest, witch trials took place in Switzerland, and over half of all
executions for witchcraft, around 30,000, took place in German
lands. In other regions of Europe, witch-hunting was less intense. In
Southern Europe, for example, witch-hunting was kept under con-
trol mainly by the Roman and Spanish Inquisitions, while in the
British Isles, witch-hunts were made more difficult because of cer-
tain legal controls and the fact that the notion of fully diabolical
witchcraft described above never gained wide credence and most ac-
cusations of witchcraft continued to focus on simple maleficium.
Across Europe, witch-hunting seems to have been most widespread
in those regions where effective, centralized legal bureaucracies were
lacking. Witch-hunting depended to a large extent on a relatively local-
ized atmosphere of panic, and large, distant bureaucracies tended to act
more slowly and with greater caution. Most witch-hunts began with an
accusation of maleficium made against some individual. A trial would
be held, and in many cases the process ended there, with the conviction
(or, less often, acquittal) of a single suspected witch. Because witches
were believed to be members of diabolical cults, however, often an ac-
cused witch was required by her judges to name other witches. If she
proved reluctant, torture could be used. Also, a single witch trial could
encourage other people in the same locality to make further accusations.
Often the process would still remain relatively contained and would end
with only a few executions, producing what might be called a mid-level
hunt. In some cases, however, the level of fear and panic generated in a
community that felt itself to be under attack by diabolical forces could
146 • WITCH-HUNT

spiral entirely out of control. Especially if the officials in charge of the
legal proceedings shared in the local panic, new accusations could be
generated almost indefinitely. With the liberal use of torture, confes-
sions could be extracted from virtually anyone accused, and so there
was no natural stop to the string of convictions and executions that
could take place. Such major hunts typically ended only when accusa-
tions came to be leveled against socially and politically powerful peo-
ple, such as priests and ministers, civic officials, and their wives. Faced
with the possibility of convicting such people, magistrates would finally
realize that the process was out of control and put an end to the hunt.
See also BAMBERG WITCH TRIALS; BASQUE LANDS, WITCH-
CRAFT IN; CHELMSFORD WITCHES; MORA WITCHES; NORTH
BERWICK WITCHES; SALEM, WITCHCRAFT AT; STAMFORD
WITCHES; TRIER, WITCH-HUNTS AT.
WITCH’S MARK. Also known as a witch’s teat, a witch’s mark could
be any small mark, mole, wart, or bodily protuberance (including an
actual third nipple) supposedly used by witches to suckle their de-
monic familiars, who were thought to crave human blood. In those
areas where belief in the witch’s mark prevailed, accused witches
would be stripped and thoroughly searched, and almost any bodily
mark or blemish could be seen as evidence of witchcraft. In the ab-
sence of any clear mark, scars might be seen as evidence of an at-
tempt to cut off or remove the mark.
WOMEN AND WITCHCRAFT. Throughout the period of the witch-
hunts in Europe, the vast majority of people accused of this crime,
and an even greater percentage of those convicted and executed for
it, were women. In most regions of Europe, the number of accused
witches who were women typically exceeded 75 percent of total ac-
cusations, and in some regions the figure rose to well over 90 percent.
From at least the 15th century down to modern times, witchcraft has
been particularly, although by no means exclusively, associated with
women, so much so that alternate terms, such as warlock, are some-
times used to describe male witches.
The strong association of witchcraft with women has many histor-
ical roots. During the period of the witch-hunts, Christian authorities,
both ecclesiastical and secular, regarded witches as servants of Satan,
WOMEN AND WITCHCRAFT • 147

guilty of worshiping demons, apostasy from the faith, and member-
ship in a conspiratorial, diabolic cult. Because both biblical and clas-
sical Greek and Roman traditions supported the notion that women
were inferior to men physically, mentally, and spiritually, authorities
could easily turn to such standard ideas of female weakness to ex-
plain why women were more susceptible than men to the deceptions
and seductions of the devil. The first authority to employ such argu-
ments to explain the predominance of female witches was the 15th-
century Dominican theologian Johannes Nider. Shortly thereafter,
the French poet Martin Le Franc presented a strongly gendered de-
piction of witchcraft in his long poem Le Champion des Dames (The
Defender of Ladies). Later in that century, the infamously misogynist
treatise on witch-hunting, Malleus maleficarum (Hammer of [Fe-
male] Witches), expanded this line of argument to its fullest extent
and declared confidently, “all witchcraft comes from carnal lust,
which in women is insatiable.” Nevertheless, before accepting too
readily the notion that the misogyny of learned, particularly clerical,
authorities lies entirely at the root of the association of witchcraft
with women, it should be noted that no later treatise on witchcraft
was as fully misogynist as the Malleus maleficarum, and in fact many
learned demonologists and later theorists of witchcraft devoted rela-
tively little attention to the gendered nature of the crime. Also, it is
clear that the number of women being accused of sorcery and witch-
craft began to rise substantially even before learned theorists first
took note of this fact.
Although early trial records are of course sketchy and many have
not survived, from 1300 to 1350, over 70 percent of those accused in
sorcery trials seem to have been men. In the second half of the 14th
century, however, the percentage of men accused fell to 42 percent
while women took over the majority with around 58 percent. In the
first half of the 15th century, when Nider and Le Franc wrote, already
60 to 70 percent of those accused in sorcery or witch trials were
women. Rather than being imposed by ideologically driven authori-
ties, the predominance of women accused of witchcraft seems to
have arisen naturally from the accusations. This would support the
notion that throughout pre-modern Europe, as in many traditional so-
cieties, women were often associated more than men with the prac-
tice of common, everyday magic, and especially with harmful sor-
148 • WOMEN AND WITCHCRAFT

cery. In particular, women frequently performed various forms of
magical healing, and the power to heal was often believed to be
closely related to the power to harm.
Once the stereotype of the female witch became established, many
other factors contributed to the more frequent prosecution of women
than men for this crime. Most basically, women—especially old
women, widows, or the unmarried—were socially marginalized and
legally weak or powerless in pre-modern European society. Many
modern scholars, especially feminist historians, have argued that
witch-hunts were a powerful device employed, either consciously or
unconsciously, by authorities to suppress and discipline women who
did not, in one way or another, conform to the roles prescribed for
them by an essentially patriarchal society. There is certainly some
truth to this argument, but again care must be taken when determin-
ing to what extent, and certainly to what degree deliberately, author-
ities alone were responsible for targeting women as witches.
In modern witchcraft, or Wicca, the status of women has been en-
tirely reversed from the historical stereotype of witchcraft. As a sys-
tem of religious belief, Wicca propounds a complete equality be-
tween male and female, and exhibits a great respect especially for
female generative powers. The religion identifies both a god (often
known as the Horned God) and a Goddess, who represents nature
and the earth. In theory, these deities are equal, but in practice an em-
phasis often falls on the Goddess. As Wicca spread in the 1960s and
1970s, some elements of the movement became closely associated
with the feminism of that period. A key figure here was the influen-
tial Wiccan author Starhawk. Many practitioners are drawn to
Wicca, at least in part, because of the positive emphasis it places on
women, as opposed to what they perceive as the patriarchal and re-
pressive nature of more traditional Western religions.
WOMEN AND WITCHCRAFT • 149


Bibliography
151
This bibliography, as this Dictionary as a whole, focuses primarily on the
phenomenon of witchcraft in Christian Europe during the medieval and early-
modern periods, and above all on the age of the great European witch-hunts
from the 15th through the 17th centuries. The historical development of
witchcraft in Europe, however, was shaped by traditions of magic—and by
legal, intellectual, and social responses to magic—stretching back to the early
Christian period and even into classical antiquity. Likewise, historical witch-
craft has continued to exert a powerful influence on the modern world, being
appropriated into modern occultist, neo-pagan, and Satanist movements,
among others. Thus literature covering magic and witchcraft for virtually the
full span of Western history is included here. The basic organization of the
bibliography is chronological, with some sections and subsections arranged
thematically. Systems of harmful magic similar to historical European witch-
craft are prevalent in many other world cultures, and scholars taking an an-
thropological approach to the study of witchcraft have often made compar-
isons between the European and non-European aspects of this phenomenon.
Therefore, a section on non-European witchcraft, focusing particularly on
studies of African systems of magic and supernatural power, is also included,
primarily for comparative purposes.
The history of witchcraft has been a subject of scholarly attention for well
over a century. Many early studies, however, are now of little use. Scholars in
the 19th and early 20th centuries, steeped in the traditions of the Enlighten-
ment, were often dismissive of earlier “superstitions,” or sought simply to
condemn, rather than to understand, the phenomenon of witch-hunting in Eu-
rope. Other scholars fell (and some continue to fall) into an alternate trap—
that of overly romanticizing earlier beliefs and practices, and trying to shape
them into some grander or more appealing design than they actually repre-
sented. Most notable in this regard was the British Egyptologist and amateur
anthropologist Margaret Murray, who wrote several books on European
witchcraft in the first half of the 20th century. Drawing to some extent on pop-
ular anthropological and historical theories of the time, Murray constructed a
fanciful account of historical witchcraft as a genuine, clandestine survival of

pre-Christian popular religion. Although thoroughly debunked by more recent
scholarship, the Murray thesis continues to exert a sway over certain modern
approaches to historical witchcraft, especially within the movement of mod-
ern witchcraft, or Wicca.
In more recent years, and especially since the 1970s, the historical study of
witchcraft has blossomed. Taking into account developments in social and cul-
tural history, the rise of gender studies, and the concerns of post-modern tex-
tual critiques, scholars have approached witchcraft from almost every conceiv-
able angle. Yet the subject remains as interesting, and in many ways as
intractable, as ever. With every new approach, new questions pose themselves.
Because of this floresence, this bibliography is limited largely to works from
the last several decades. Earlier works are included only if they have proven
particularly seminal for later research.
Scholarship on witchcraft is a truly international effort. Every country in
Europe experienced witchcraft and witch-hunting to some extent, every coun-
try has produced its own scholarship, and important and innovative work has
appeared in almost every European language. Aside from the many major
studies in German or French, one thinks, most recently, of the work being done
on Dutch and Hungarian witchcraft. As the present volume is intended for an
English-speaking audience, English-language scholarship has been preferred
as much as possible. However, especially for regional studies, scholarship in
other languages is essential.
Although a great deal of scholarly attention has been focused on witchcraft,
still the field is dominated by narrow studies rather than broad syntheses. The
emphasis of the bibliography is on books, which are typically more easily avail-
able and which are more often addressed to (or at least accommodating of) gen-
eral readers, but a large number of scholarly articles are also listed. Where sev-
eral articles have been published in a single volume, to save space and avoid
needless pedantry, only the full volume is listed. To readers looking to begin
their investigations or interested in a general overview, the following sugges-
tions can be made. Probably the best survey of the entire history of magic and
witchcraft in the Western world is Jeffrey Russell’s A History of Witchcraft.
Richard Kieckhefer’s Magic in the Middle Ages is the best survey for that pe-
riod, culminating in a consideration of the emergence of diabolic witchcraft and
witch-hunting, which actually only appeared at the end of the Middle Ages.
Brian Levack’s The Witch-Hunt in Early Modern Europe is the standard English-
language survey of the period of the witch-hunts proper. An excellent and read-
ily available collection of primary sources in translation, covering the entire me-
dieval and early-modern period, is Alan Kors and Edward Peters, eds.,
Witchcraft in Europe 400–1700. The six volumes of Witchcraft and Magic in Eu-
rope, edited by Bengt Ankarloo and Stuart Clark, promise to be the most com-
152 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

plete and detailed survey of the entire historical development of witchcraft in
Western civilization from the ancient world to the 20th century. Each volume,
arranged chronologically, contains three to four long pieces by various experts
on particular periods or issues. Each of these books also has extensive bibli-
ographies to guide further research.
ORGANIZATION
I. Primary Sources: Collections and Translations
1. Modern Editions and Translations
2. Edited Source Collections
II. General Studies
1. General Surveys
2. Bibliographical and Historiographical Surveys
3. Encyclopedias and Reference Sources
III. Witchcraft in the Ancient World
IV. Witchcraft in Medieval and Early-Modern Europe
1. Late Antiquity and Early Middle Ages
2. The Middle Ages
3. The Era of the Witch-Hunts
4. The Witches’ Sabbath
5. Witchcraft, Medicine, and Disease
6. Women, Gender, and Witchcraft
7. Magic and Occult Science in the Era of the Witch-Hunts
V. Witchcraft in Medieval and Early-Modern Europe: Regional Studies
1. British Isles
2. Colonial America
3. Eastern Europe
4. France and the Low Countries
5. German Lands
6. Italy, Portugal, and Spain
7. Scandinavia
8. Switzerland
VI. The Devil and Demonology, Possession and Exorcism
VII. Theorists of Witchcraft, Treatises and Literature on Witchcraft
VIII. Witchcraft in Art
IX. Witchcraft in the Modern World
1. Magic and Superstition after the Witch-Hunts
2. Modern Wicca, Neo-Paganism, and Satanism
X. Non-European Witchcraft, Anthropological and Comparative Studies
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 153

I. PRIMARY SOURCES:
COLLECTIONS AND TRANSLATIONS
1. Modern Editions and Translations
Bouget, Henry. An Examen of Witches. Ed. Montague Summers. Trans. E. A.
Ashwin. 1929. Reprint, New York: Barnes and Noble, 1971.
Copenhaver, Brian P. Hermetica: The Greek Corpus Hermeticum and the Latin
Asclepius in a New English Translation with Notes and Introduction. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992.
Davidson, L. S., and J. O. Ward, eds. The Sorcery Trial of Alice Kyteler: A Con-
temporary Account (1324) Together with Related Documents in English
Translation, with Introduction and Notes. Binghamton, N.Y.: Medieval and
Renaissance Texts and Studies, 1993.
Del Rio, Martin. Investigations into Magic. Ed. P. G. Maxwell-Stuart. Man-
chester, Eng.: Manchester University Press, 2000.
Guazzo, Francesco Maria. Compendium Maleficarum. Ed. Montague Sum-
mers. Trans. E. A. Ashwin. 1929. Reprint, New York: Barnes and Noble,
1970.
Hopkins, Matthew. The Discovery of Witches. Ed. Montague Summers. Lon-
don: Cayme, 1928.
Kramer, Heinrich. The Malleus Maleficarum of Heinrich Kramer and James
Sprenger. Trans. Montague Summers. 1928. Reprint, New York: Dover,
1971.
———. Malleus Maleficarum von Heinrich Institoris (alias Kramer) unter
Mithilfe Jakob Sprengers aufgrund der dämonologischen Tradition zusam-
mengestellt. Ed. André Schnyder. Göppingen, Ger.: Kümmerle, 1991. Kom-
mentar zur Weidergabe des Erstdrucks von 1487. Göppingen, Ger.: Küm-
merle, 1993.
———. Malleus maleficarum 1487 von Heinrich Kramer (Institoris): Nach-
druck des Erstdruckes von 1487 mit Bulle und Approbatio. Ed. Günter Jer-
ouschek. Hildesheim, Ger.: Georg Olms, 1992.
Mammoli, Domenico, ed. The Record of the Trial and Condemnation of a
Witch, Mattueccia di Francesco, at Todi, 20 March 1428. Res Tudertinae vol.
14. Rome: n.p., 1972.
Rémy, Nicholas. Demonolatry. Ed. Montague Summers. Trans E. A. Ashwin.
1930. Reprint, Secaucus, N.J.: University Books, 1974.
Scot, Reginald. The Dicoverie of Witchcraft. Ed. Montague Summers. 1930.
Reprint Washington, D.C.: Kaufman and Greenberg, 1995.
Spee, Friedrich von. Cautio Criminalis, or a Book on Witch Trials. Trans. Mar-
cus Heller. Charlottesville, Va.: University of Virginia Press, 2003.
154 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Weyer, Johann. On Witchcraft: An Abridged Translation of Johann Weyer’s De
praestigiis daemonum. Ed. Benjamin G. Kohl and H. C. Erik Midelfort.
Trans. John Shea. Ashville, N.C.: Pegasus Press, 1998.
———. Witches, Devils, and Doctors in the Renaissance: Johann Weyer, De
Praestigiis Daemonum. Ed. George Mora. Binghamton, N.Y.: Medieval and
Renaissance Texts and Studies, 1991.
2. Edited Source Collections
Behringer, Wolfgang, ed. Hexen und Hexenprozesse. 3rd ed. Munich:
Deutscher Taschenbuch, 1995.
Betz, Hans Dieter, ed. The Greek Magical Papyri in Translation, including the
Demotic Spells. 2nd ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992.
Boyer, Paul, and Stephen Nissenbaum, eds. The Salem Witchcraft Papers: Ver-
batim Transcripts of the Legal Documents of the Salem Witchcraft Outbreak
of 1692. 3 vols. New York: Da Capo Press, 1977.
———. Salem-Village Witchcraft: A Documentary Record of Local Conflict in
Colonial New England. 2nd ed. Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1993.
Gager, John G., ed. Curse Tablets and Binding Spells from the Ancient World.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992.
Gibson, Marion. Early Modern Witches: Witchcraft Cases in Contemporary
Writing. London: Routledge, 2000.
Hall, David D., ed. Witch-Hunting in Seventeenth Century New England: A
Documentary History, 1638–1693. 2nd ed. Boston: Northeastern University
Press, 1999.
Hansen, Joseph, ed. Quellen und Untersuchungen zur Geschichte des Hexen-
wahns und der Hexenverfolgung im Mittelalter. 1901. Reprint, Hildesheim,
Ger.: Georg Olms, 1963.
Hill, Frances. The Salem Witch Trials Reader. New York: Da Capo Press, 2000.
Kors, Alan, and Edward Peters, eds. Witchcraft in Europe, 400–1700: A Docu-
mentary History. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press,
2001.
Larner, Christina, Cristopher Hyde Lee, and Hugh V. McLachlan, eds. Source-
Book of Scottish Witchcraft. Glasgow: SSRC Project on Accusations and
Prosecutions for Witchcraft in Scotland, 1977.
Lea, Henry Charles. Materials Toward a History of Witchcraft. Ed. Arthur C.
Howland. 3 vols. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1939.
Luck, Georg, ed. Arcana Mundi: Magic and the Occult in the Greek and Ro-
man Worlds. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1985.
Mandrou, Robert, ed. Possession et sorcellerie au XVIIe siècle: Textes inédits.
Paris: Hachette, 1979.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 155

Maxwell-Stuart, P. G., ed. The Occult in Early Modern Europe: A Documen-
tary History. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1999.
Ostorero, Martine, Agostino Paravicini Bagliani, and Kathrin Utz Tremp, eds.
L’imaginaire du sabbat: Edition critique des textes les plus anciens (1430
c.–1440 c.). Lausanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne, 1999.
Rosen, Barbara, ed. Witchcraft in England, 1558–1618. Amherst, Mass.: Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Press, 1991.
II. GENERAL STUDIES
1. General Surveys
Ankarloo, Bengt, and Stuart Clark, eds. Witchcraft and Magic in Europe. 6
vols. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1999–2003 (vol. 1:
Biblical and Pagan Societies; vol. 2: Ancient Greece and Rome; vol. 3: The
Middle Ages; vol. 4: The Period of the Witch Trials: vol. 5: The Eighteenth
and Nineteenth Centuries; vol. 6: The Twentieth Century).
Behringer, Wolfgang. Hexen: Glaube, Verfolgung, Vermarktung. Munich: Beck,
1998.
Breslaw, Elaine G., ed. Witches of the Atlantic World: A Historical Reader and
Primary Sourcebook. New York: New York University Press, 2000.
Caro Baroja, Julio. The World of the Witches. Trans. O. N. V. Glendinning.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1965.
Daxelmüller, Christoph. Zauberpraktiken: Die Ideengeschichte der Magie.
Düsseldorf, Ger.: Albatros, 2001.
Dülmen, Richard van, ed. Hexenwelten: Magie und Imagination vom 16.–20.
Jahrhundert. Frankfurt: Fischer, 1987.
Franklyn, Julian. Death by Enchantment: An Examination of Ancient and Mod-
ern Witchcraft. New York: Putnam, 1971.
Hoyt, Charles Alva. Witchcraft. 2nd ed. Carbondale, Ill.: Southern Illinois Uni-
versity Press, 1989.
Lehmann, Arthur C., and James F. Myers. Magic, Witchcraft and Religion: An
Anthropological Study of the Supernatural. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford Uni-
versity Press, 1985.
Levack, Brian P., ed. Articles on Witchcraft, Magic and Demonology. 12 vols.
New York: Garland, 1992 (vol. 1: Anthropological Studies of Witchcraft,
Magic, and Religion; vol. 2: Witchcraft in the Ancient World and the Middle
Ages; vol. 3: Witch-Hunting in Early Modern Europe: General Studies; vol.
4: The Literature of Witchcraft; vol. 5: Witch-Hunting in Continental Europe:
Local and Regional Studies; vol. 6: Witchcraft in England; vol. 7: Witchcraft
156 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

in Scotland; vol. 8: Witchcraft in Colonial America; vol. 9: Possession and
Exorcism; vol. 10: Witchcraft, Women, and Society; vol. 11: Renaissance
Magic; vol. 12: Witchcraft and Demonology in Art and Literature).
———. New Perspectives on Witchcraft, Magic, and Demonology. 6 vols. New
York: Garland, 2001 (vol. 1: Demonology, Witchcraft, and Religion; vol. 2:
Witchcraft in Continental Europe; vol. 3: Witchcraft in the British Isles and
New England; vol. 4: Gender and Witchcraft; vol. 5: Witchcraft, Healing,
and Popular Diseases; vol. 6: Witchcraft in the Modern World).
Maxwell-Stuart, P. G. Witchcraft: A History. Charleston, S.C.: Tempus, 2000.
Muchembled, Robert, ed. Magie et sorcellerie en Europe du Moyen Age à nos
jours. Paris: Colin, 1994.
Ravensdale, Tom, and James Morgan. The Psychology of Witchcraft: An Ac-
count of Witchcraft, Black Magic, and the Occult. New York: Arco, 1974.
Russell, Jeffrey Burton. A History of Witchcraft: Sorcerers, Heretics and Pa-
gans. London: Thames and Hudson, 1980.
Schwaiger, Georg, ed. Teufelsglaube und Hexenprozesse. 4th ed. Munich:
Beck, 1999.
Wilson, Stephen. The Magical Universe: Everyday Ritual and Magic in Pre-
Modern Europe. London: Hambledon, 2001.
2. Bibliographical and Historiographical Surveys
Barstow, Anne. “On Studying Witchcraft as Women’s History: A Historiogra-
phy of the European Witch Persecutions.” Journal of Feminist Studies in Re-
ligion 4 (1988): 7–19.
Behringer, Wolfang. “Neue Historische Literatur: Erträge und Perspektiven der
Hexenforschung.” Historische Zeitschrift 249 (1989): 619–40.
Crowe, Martha J., ed. Witchcraft: Catalogue of the Witchcraft Collection in the
Cornell University Library. Millwood, N.Y.: KTO Press, 1977.
Franz, Günther, and Franz Irsigler, eds. Methoden und Konzepte der his-
torischen Hexenforschung. Trier, Ger.: Spee, 1998.
Gijswijt-Hofstra, Marijke. “Recent Witchcraft Research in the Low Countries.”
In Historical Research in the Low Countries, ed. N. C. F. van Sas and Els
Witte. The Hague: Nederlands Historisch Genootschap, 1992, 23–34.
Melton, J. Gordon. Magic, Witchcraft, and Paganism in America: A Bibliogra-
phy. New York: Garland, 1982.
Midelfort, H. C. Erik. “Recent Witch Hunting Research, or Where Do We Go from
Here?” Papers of the Bibliographical Society of America 62 (1968): 373–420.
———. “Witchcraft, Magic and the Occult.” In Reformation Europe: A Guide
to Research, ed. Steven Ozment. St. Louis, Mo.: Center for Reformation Re-
search, 1982, 183–209.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 157

Monter, E. William. “The Historiography of European Witchcraft: Progress and
Prospects.” Journal of Interdisciplinary History 2 (1972): 435–51.
Purkiss, Diane. The Witch in History: Early Modern and Twentieth-Century
Representations. London: Routledge, 1996.
Whitney, Elspeth. “International Trends: The Witch ‘She’ / The Historian ‘He’:
Gender and the Historiography of the European Witch-Hunts.” Journal of
Women’s History 7 (1995): 77–101.
3. Encyclopedias and Reference Sources
Golden, Richard, et al., eds. Encyclopedia of Witchcraft: The Western Tradition.
Santa Barbara, Calif.: ABC-Clio, forthcoming.
Greenwood, Susan. The Encyclopedia of Magic and Witchcraft: An Illustrated
Historical Reference to Spiritual Worlds. London: Lorenz, 2001.
Grimassi, Raven. Encyclopedia of Wicca and Witchcraft. St. Paul, Minn.:
Llewellyn 2000.
Guiley, Rosemary Ellen. The Encyclopedia of Witches and Witchcraft. 2nd ed.
New York: Checkmark, 1999.
Lewis, James R. Witchcraft Today: An Encyclopedia of Wiccan and Neopagan
Traditions. Santa Barbara, Calif.: ABC-Clio, 1999.
Newall, Venetia. The Encyclopedia of Witchcraft and Magic. London: Hamlyn,
1974.
Pickering, David. Cassell’s Dictionary of Witchcraft. London: Cassell, 1996.
Robbins, Rossell Hope. The Encyclopedia of Witchcraft and Demonology. New
York: Crown, 1959.
III. WITCHCRAFT IN THE ANCIENT WORLD
Abusch, Tzvi. Babylonian Witchcraft Literature: Case Studies. Atlanta, Ga.:
Scholars Press, 1987.
———. “The Demonic Image of the Witch in Standard Babylonian Literature:
The Reworking of Popular Conceptions by Learned Exorcists.” In Religion,
Science, and Magic in Concert and in Conflict, ed. Jacob Neusner, Ernest S.
Frerichs, and Paul Virgil McCracken Flesher. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1989, 27–58.
———. “An Early Form of the Witchcraft Ritual Maqlû and the Origin of a
Babylonian Magical Ceremony.” In Lingering over Words: Studies in Ancient
Near Eastern Literature in Honor of William L. Moran, ed. Tzvi Abusch, John
Huehnergard, and Piotr Steinkeller. Atlanta, Ga.: Scholars Press, 1990, 1–67.
158 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

———. “Mesopotamian Anti-Witchcraft Literature: Textes and Studies, Part I:
The Nature of Maqlû, Its Character, Divisions, and Calendrical Setting.”
Journal of Near Eastern Studies 33 (1974): 251–62.
Aune, D. E. “Magic in Early Christianity.” In Aufsteig und Niedergang der
römischen Welt II.23.2, ed. Wolfgang Haase. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter,
1980, 1507–57.
Barb, A. A. “The Survival of Magic Arts.” In The Conflict Between Paganism
and Christianity in the Fourth Century, ed. Arnaldo Momigliano. Oxford:
Clarendon, 1963, 100–25.
Bernand, André. Sorciers grecs. Paris: Fayard, 1991.
Brenk, Frederick E. “In the Light of the Moon: Demonology in the Early Im-
perial Period.” In Aufsteig und Niedergang der römischen Welt II.16.3, ed.
Wolfgang Haase. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 1986, 2068–2145.
Clerc, Jean-Benoît. Homines Magici: Etude sur la sorcellerie et la magie dans
la société romaine impériale. Bern: Peter Lang, 1995.
Cryer, Frederick H. Divination in Ancient Israel and Its Near Eastern Environs:
A Socio-Historical Investigation. Sheffield, Eng.: Journal for the Study of the
Old Testament Press, 1994.
Dickie, Matthew W. “Heliodorus and Plutarch on the Evil Eye.” Classical
Philology 86 (1991): 17–29.
———. Magic and Magicians in the Greco-Roman World. London: Routledge,
2001.
Faraone, Christopher A. “An Accusation of Magic in Classical Athens.” Trans-
actions of the American Philological Association 119 (1989): 149–60.
———. Ancient Greek Love Magic. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University
Press, 1999.
———. “Binding and Burying the Forces of Evil: Defensive Use of ‘Voodoo’
Dolls in Ancient Greece.” Classical Antiquity 10 (1991): 165–205.
———. “Deianira’s Mistake and the Demise of Heracles: Erotic Magic in
Sophocles’ Trachiniae.” Helios 21 (1994): 115–35.
Faraone, Christopher A., and Dirk Obbink, eds. Magika Hiera: Ancient Greek
Magic and Religion. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1991.
Finkel, Irving L. “Necromancy in Ancient Mesopotamia.” Archiv für Orient-
forschung 29–30 (1983–84): 1–17.
Frankfurter, David. “The Magic of Writing and the Writing of Magic: The Power
of the Word in Egyptian and Greek Traditions.” Helios 21 (1994): 189–221.
Garrett, Susan R. The Demise of the Devil: Magic and the Demonic in Luke’s
Writings. Minneapolis, Minn.: Fortress Publishing, 1989.
Graf, Fritz. Magic in the Ancient World. Trans. Franklin Philip. Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1997.
———. “The Magician’s Initiation.” Helios 21 (1994): 161–77.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 159

———. “Medea, the Enchantress from Afar: Remarks on a Well-Known Myth.”
In Medea: Essays on Medea in Myth, Literature, Philosophy, and Art, ed.
James J. Claus and Sarah Iles Johnston. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University
Press, 1997, 27–43.
Janowitz, Naomi. Magic in the Roman World: Pagans, Jews and Christians.
London: Routledge, 2001.
Jeffers, Ann. Magic and Divination in Ancient Palestine and Syria. Leiden:
Brill, 1996.
Luck, Georg. Hexen und Zauberei in der römischen Dichtung. Zurich: Artemis,
1962.
Meyer, Marvin, and Paul Mirecki, eds. Ancient Magic and Ritual Power. Lei-
den: Brill, 1995.
Michalowski, Piotr. “On Some Early Sumerian Magical Texts.” Orientalia n.s.
54 (1985): 216–25.
Ogden, Daniel. Greek and Roman Necromancy. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton Uni-
versity Press, 2001.
Pinch, Geraldine. Magic in Ancient Egypt. Austin, Tex.: University of Texas
Press, 1995.
Rabinowitz, Jacob. The Rotting Goddess: The Origin of the Witch in Classical
Antiquity. New York: Autonomedia, 1998.
Reiner, Erica. Astral Magic in Babylonia. Philadelphia: American Philosophi-
cal Society, 1995.
Remus, Harold E. “Magic or Miracle: Some Second-Century Instances.” Sec-
ond Century 2 (1982): 127–56.
Rollins, S. “Women and Witchcraft in Ancient Assyria (c. 900–600 B.C .).” In
Images of Women in Antiquity, ed. Averil Cameron and Amélie Kuhrt. De-
troit, Mich.: Wayne State University Press, 1983, 34–45.
Schäfer, Peter, and Hans G. Klippenberg, eds. Envisioning Magic: A Princeton
Seminar and Symposium. Leiden: Brill, 1997.
Scobie, Alex. “Strigiform Witches in Roman and Other Cultures.” Fabula 19
(1978): 74–101.
Smith, Jonathan Z. “Towards Interpreting Demonic Powers in Hellenistic and
Roman Antiquity.” Aufsteig und Niedergang der römischen Welt II.16.1, ed.
Wolfgang Haase. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 1978, 425–39.
———. “The Evil Eye in Mesopotamia.” Journal of the Near Eastern Society
51 (1992): 19–32.
———. “The Wisdom of the Chaldaeans: Mesopotamian Magic as Conceived by
Classical Authors.” In East and West: Cultural Relations in the Ancient World,
ed. Tobias Fischer-Hansen. Copenhagen: Museum Tusculanum, 1988, 93–101.
Thomsen, Marie-Louise. Zauberdiagnose und Schwarze Magie in Mesopotamien.
Copenhagen: Carsten Niebuhr Institute for Ancient Near Eastern Studies, 1987.
160 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Ulmer, Rivka. The Evil Eye in the Bible and Rabbinic Literature. Hoboken,
N.J.: KTAV Publishing House, 1994.
Walters, Stanley D. “The Sorceress and Her Apprentice: A Case Study of an Ac-
cusation.” Journal of Cuneiform Studies 23 (1970–71): 27–38.
Ward, John O. “Women, Witchcraft and Social Patterning in the Later Roman
Lawcodes.” Prudentia 13 (1981): 99–118.
IV. WITCHCRAFT IN MEDIEVAL
AND EARLY-MODERN EUROPE
1. Late Antiquity and Early Middle Ages
Brown, Peter. “Sorcery, Demons and the Rise of Christianity: From Late An-
tiquity into the Middle Ages.” In Peter Brown, Religion and Society in the
Age of St. Augustine. New York: Harper and Row, 1972, 119–46.
———. “Society and the Supernatural: A Medieval Change.” Daedalus 104.2
(1975): 133–51.
Dukes, Eugene D. Magic and Witchcraft in the Dark Ages. Lanham, Md.: Uni-
versity Press of America, 1996.
Flint, Valerie I. J. The Rise of Magic in Early Medieval Europe. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press, 1991.
Janowitz, Naomi. Icons of Power: Ritual Practice in Late Antiquity. University
Park, Pa.: Pennsylvania State University Press, 2002.
Markus, Robert A. “Augustine on Magic: A Neglected Semiotic Theory.” Re-
vue des études augustiniennes 40 (1994): 375–88.
Meens, Rob. “Magic and the Early Medieval World View.” In Community, the
Family, and the Saint: Patterns of Power in Early Medieval Europe, ed. Joyce
Hill and Mary Swan. Turnhout, Bel.: Brepols, 1998, 285–95.
Murray, Alexander. “Missionaries and Magic in Dark-Age Europe.” Past and
Present 136 (1992): 186–205.
Riché, Pierre. “La magie à l’époque carolingienne.” Comptes rendus des
séances de l’Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-lettres 1 (1973): 127–38.
Schäfer, Peter. “Jewish Magical Literature in Late Antiquity and the Early Mid-
dle Ages.” Journal of Jewish Studies 41 (1990): 75–91.
Smelik, K. A. D. “The Witch of Endor: 1 Samuel 28 in Rabbinic and Christian
Exegesis till 800 A.D.” Vigiliae Christianae 33 (1979): 160–79.
Thee, Francis C. R. Julius Africanus and the Early Christian View of Magic.
Tübingen, Ger.: Mohr, 1984.
Ward, John O. “Witchcraft and Sorcery in the Later Roman Empire and the Early
Middle Ages: An Anthropological Comment.” Prudentia 12 (1980): 93–108.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 161

2. The Middle Ages
Bailey, Michael D. “From Sorcery to Witchcraft: Clerical Conceptions of
Magic in the Later Middle Ages.” Speculum 76 (2001): 960–90.
Barber, Malcolm. The Trial of the Templars. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press, 1978.
Blauert, Andreas, ed. Ketzer, Zauberer, Hexen: Die Anfänge der europäischen
Hexenverfolgungen. Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 1990.
Bologne, Jean-Claude. Du flambeau au bûcher: Magie et superstition au
Moyen Age. Paris: Plon, 1993.
Boudet, Jean-Patrice. “La genèse médiévale de la chasse aux sorcières: Jalons
en vue d’une relecture.” In Le mal et le diable: Leurs figures à la fin du
Moyen Age, ed. Nathalie Nabert. Paris: Beauchesne, 1996, 34–52.
Cohn, Norman. Europe’s Inner Demons: The Demonization of Christians in Me-
dieval Christendom. Rev. ed. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000.
Habiger-Tuczay, Christa. Magie und Magier im Mittelalter. Munich: Diederichs,
1992.
Hansen, Joseph. Zauberwahn, Inquisition und Hexenprozess im Mittelalter und
die Entstehung der grossen Hexenverfolgung. 1900. Reprint, Aalen, Ger.:
Scientia, 1964.
Harmening, Dieter. “Magiciennes et sorcières: La mutation du concept de
magie à la fin du Moyen Age.” Heresis 13–14 (1989): 421–45.
———. Superstitio: Überlieferungs- und theoriegeschichtliche Untersuchungen
zur kirchlich-theologischen Aberglaubensliteratur des Mittelalters. Berlin:
Schmidt, 1979.
———. Zauberei im Abendland: Vom Anteil der Gelehrten am Wahn der Leute:
Skizzen zur Geschichte des Aberglaubens. Würzburg, Ger.: Köningshausen
& Neumann, 1991.
Harvey, Margaret. “Papal Witchcraft: The Charges against Benedict XIII.” In
Sanctity and Secularity: The Church and the World, ed. Derek Baker. Ox-
ford: Blackwell, 1973, 109–16.
Jones, William R. “Political Uses of Sorcery in Medieval Europe.” The Histo-
rian 34 (1972): 670–87.
Kieckhefer, Richard. “Avenging the Blood of Children: Anxiety over Child
Victims and the Origins of the European Witch Trials.” In The Devil, Heresy
and Witchcraft: Essays in Honor of Jeffrey B. Russell, ed. Alberto Ferreiro.
Leiden: Brill, 1998, 91–109.
———. “Erotic Magic in Medieval Europe.” In Sex in the Middle Ages: A Book
of Essays, ed. Joyce E. Salisbury. New York: Garland, 1991, 30–55.
———. European Witch Trials: Their Foundations in Popular and Learned
Culture, 1300–1500. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press,
1976.
162 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

———. Forbidden Rites: A Necromancer’s Manual of the Fifteenth Century.
University Park, Pa.: Pennsylvania State University Press, 1998.
———. “The Holy and the Unholy: Sainthood, Witchcraft, and Magic in Late
Medieval Europe.” Journal of Medieval and Renaissance Studies 24 (1994):
355–85. Reprinted in Christendom and Its Discontents: Exclusion, Persecu-
tion, and Rebellion, 1000–1500, ed. Scott L. Waugh and Peter D. Diehl.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996, 310–37.
———. Magic in the Middle Ages. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1989.
———. “The Specific Rationality of Medieval Magic.” American Historical Re-
view 99 (1994): 813–36.
Lecouteux, Claude. Fées, sorcières et loups-garous au Moyen Age. Paris:
Imago, 1992.
Maier, Anneliese. “Eine Verfügung Johannes XXII. über die Zuständigkeit der
Inquisition für Zaubereiprozesse.” Archivum Fratrum Praedicatorum 22
(1952): 226–46. Reprinted in Anneliese Maier, Ausgehendes Mittelalter:
Gesamelte Aufsätze zur Geistesgeschichte des 14. Jahrhunderts. 3 vols.
Rome, 1964–77, 2:59–80.
Manselli, Raoul. Magia e stregoneria nel medio evo. Turin: Giappichelli,
1976.
Murray, Alexander. “Medieval Origins of the Witch-Hunt.” The Cambridge
Quarterly 7 (1976): 63–74.
Peters, Edward. The Magician, the Witch, and the Law. Philadelphia: Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania Press, 1978.
Rose, Elliot. A Razor for a Goat: Problems in the History of Witchcraft and Di-
abolism. 1962. Reprint, Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1989.
Russell, Jeffrey Burton. “Medieval Witchcraft and Medieval Heresy.” In On the
Margin of the Visible: Sociology, the Esoteric, and the Occult, ed. Edward A.
Tiryakian. New York: Wiley, 1974, 179–89.
———. Witchcraft in the Middle Ages. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press,
1972.
Russell, Jeffrey B., and Mark W. Wyndham. “Witchcraft and the Demonization
of Heresy.” Mediaevalia 2 (1976): 1–21.
Tucker, Elizabeth. “Antecedents of Contemporary Witchcraft in the Middle
Ages.” Journal of Popular Culture 14 (1980): 70–78.
3. The Era of the Witch-Hunts
Ankarloo, Bengt, and Gustav Henningsen, eds. Early Modern European Witch-
craft: Centres and Peripheries. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 163

Barry, Jonathan, Marianne Hester, and Gareth Robert, eds. Witchcraft in Early
Modern Europe: Studies in Culture and Belief. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1996.
Bechtel, Guy. Le sorcier et l’Occident: La destruction de la sorcellerie en Eu-
rope des origines aux grands bûchers. Paris: Plon, 1997.
Becker, Gabriele, et al. Aus der Zeit der Verzweiflung: Zur Genese und Aktual-
ität des Hexenbilds. Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 1976.
Behringer, Wolfgang. “Kinderhexenprozesse: Zur Rolle von Kindern in der
Geschichte der Hexenverfolgung.” Zeitschrift für historische Forschung 16
(1989): 31–47.
———. “Weather, Hunger and Fear: Origins of the European Witch-Hunts in
Climate, Society and Mentality.” German History 13 (1995): 1–27.
Ben-Yehuda, Nachman. “The European Witch Craze of the Fourteenth to Sev-
enteenth Centuries: A Sociologist’s Perspective.” American Journal of Soci-
ology 86 (1980): 1–31.
———. “Problems Inherent in Socio-Historical Approaches to the European
Witch-Craze.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion 20 (1981):
326–38.
———. “Witchcraft and the Occult as Boundary Maintenance Devices.” In Re-
ligion, Science, and Magic in Concert and in Conflict, ed. Jacob Neusner,
Ernest S. Frerichs, and Paul Virgil McCracken Flesher. Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 1989, 229–60.
Bever, Edward. “Old Age and Witchcraft in Early Modern Europe.” In Old Age
in Pre-Industrial Society, ed. Peter N. Sterns. New York: Holmes and Meier,
1982, 150–90.
Blécourt, Willem de. “Witch Doctors, Soothsayers and Priests: On Cunning Folk
in European Historiography and Tradition.” Social History 19 (1994): 285–303.
Briggs, Robin. Witches and Neighbors: The Social and Cultural Context of Eu-
ropean Witchcraft. 2nd ed. New York: Viking, 2002.
Clark, Stuart. “Inversion, Misrule and the Meaning of Witchcraft.” Past and
Present 87 (1980): 98–127.
———. Thinking with Demons: The Idea of Witchcraft in Early Modern Europe.
Oxford: Clarendon, 1997.
Clark, Stuart, ed. Languages of Witchcraft: Narrative, Ideology and Meaning in
Early Modern Culture. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 2001.
Currie, Elliott P. “Crimes without Criminals: Witchcraft and Its Control in Re-
naissance Europe.” Law and Society Review 3 (1968): 7–32.
Eliade, Mircea. “Some Observations on European Witchcraft.” History of Reli-
gions 14 (1975): 149–72. Reprinted in Mircea Eliade, Occultism, Witchcraft,
and Cultural Fashions: Essays in Comparative Religions. Chicago: Univer-
sity of Chicago Press, 1976, 69–92.
164 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Hoak, Dale. “The Great European Witch–Hunts: A Historical Perspective.”
American Journal of Sociology 88 (1983): 1270–74.
Honegger, Claudia, ed. Die Hexen der Neuzeit: Studien zur Sozialgeschichte
eines kulturellen Deutungsmusters. Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 1978.
Horsley, Richard A. “Further Reflections on Witchcraft and European Folk Re-
ligion.” History of Religions 19 (1979): 71–95.
———. “Who Were the Witches? The Social Roles of the Accused in the Euro-
pean Witch-Trials.” Journal of Interdisciplinary History 9 (1979): 689–715.
Klaits, Joseph. Servants of Satan: The Age of the Witch Hunts. Bloomington,
Ind.: Indiana University Press, 1985.
Larner, Christina. “Crimen Exceptum? The Crime of Witchcraft in Europe.”
In Crime and the Law: The Social History of Crime since 1500, ed. V. A.
C. Gatrell, Bruce Lenman, and Geoffrey Parker. London: Europa, 1980,
49–75.
———. Witchcraft and Religion: The Politics of Popular Belief. Ed. Alan Mac-
farlane. Oxford: Blackwell, 1984.
Levack, Brian. “The Great Witch-Hunt.” In Handbook of European History,
1400–1600: Late Middle Ages, Renaissance, and Reformation, 2 vols., ed.
Thomas A. Brady Jr., Heiko A. Oberman, and James D. Tracy. Leiden: Brill,
1994–95, 2:607–40.
———. The Witch-Hunt in Early Modern Europe. 2nd ed. London: Longman,
1995.
Maxwell-Stuart, P. G. Witchcraft in Europe and the New World, 1400–1800.
New York: Palgrave, 2001.
Midelfort, H. C. Erik. “Were There Really Witches?” In Transition and Rev-
olution: Problems and Issues of European Renaissance and Reformation
History, ed. Robert M. Kingdon. Minneapolis, Minn.: Burgess, 1974,
189–205.
———. “Witch Hunting and the Domino Theory.” In Religion and the People,
800–1700, ed. James Obelkevich. Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North
Carolina Press, 1979, 277–88, 323–25.
Monter, E. William. “French and Italian Witchcraft.” History Today 30 (No-
vember 1980): 31–35.
———. Ritual, Myth and Magic in Early Modern Europe. Athens, Ohio: Ohio
University Press, 1983.
Monter, E. William, ed. European Witchcraft. New York: Wiley, 1969.
Muchembled, Robert. Le roi et le sorcière: L’Europe des bûchers (XVe-XVIIe
siècle). Paris: Desclée, 1993.
———. Le sorcière au village: XVe-XVIIIe siècle. Paris: Gallimard, 1979.
Nugent, Donald. “The Renaissance . . . of Witchcraft.” Church History 40
(1971): 69–78.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 165

Oldridge, Darren, ed. The Witchcraft Reader. London: Routledge, 2002.
Oplinger, Jon. The Politics of Demonology: The European Witchcraze and the
Mass Production of Deviance. London: Associated University Presses, 1990.
Quaife, G. R. Godly Zeal and Furious Rage: The Witch in Early Modern Eu-
rope. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1987.
Scarre, Geoffrey. Witchcraft and Magic in 16th and 17th Century Europe. 2nd
ed. Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humanities Press, 2001.
Scribner, Robert W. “Magic, Witchcraft, and Superstition.” Historical Journal
37 (1994): 219–30.
———. “The Reformation, Popular Magic, and the ‘Disenchantment of the
World.’” Journal of Interdisciplinary History 23 (1992–93): 475–94.
Segl, Peter, et al. Hexenglaube und Hexenverfolgungen: Eine kritische Bilanz.
Augsburg, Ger.: Akademie-Publikationen, 1989.
Stephens, Walter. Demon Lovers: Witchcraft, Sex, and the Crisis of Belief.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2002.
———. “Incredible Sex: Witches, Demons, and Giants in the Early Modern
Imagination.” In Monsters in the Italian Literary Imagination, ed. Keala
Jewel. Detroit, Mich.: Wayne State University Press, 2001, 153–76.
Thurston, Robert W. Witch, Wicce, Mother Goose: The Rise and Fall of the
Witch Hunts in Europe and America. New York: Longman, 2001.
Trevor-Roper, H. R. The European Witch-Craze of the Sixteenth and Seven-
teenth Centuries and Other Essays. New York: Harper, 1969.
4. The Witches’ Sabbath
Bailey, Michael D. “The Medieval Concept of the Witches’ Sabbath.” Exem-
plaria 8 (1996): 419–39.
———. Ecstasies: Deciphering the Witches’ Sabbath. Trans. Raymond Rosen-
thal. New York: Pantheon, 1991.
Ginzburg, Carlo. “The Witches’ Sabbat: Popular Cult or Inquisitorial Stereo-
type?” In Understanding Popular Culture: Europe from the Middle Ages to
the Nineteenth Century, ed. Steven L. Kaplan. Berlin: Mouton, 1984, 39–51.
Jacques-Chaquin, Nicole, and Maxime Préaud, eds. Le sabbat des sorciers,
XVe–XVIIIe siècles. Grenoble, France: Millon, 1994.
Klaniczay, Gábor. “Der Hexensabbat im Spiegel von Zeugenaussagen in
Hexen-Prozessen.” Zeitschrift für Kulturwissenschaften 5 (1993): 31–54.
Paravicini Bagliani, Agostino, Kathrin Utz Tremp, and Martine Ostorero. “Le
sabbat dans les Alpes: Les prémices médiévales de la chasse aux sorcières.”
In Sciences: Raison et déraisons. Lausanne, Switz.: Payot, 1994, 67–89.
Tschacher, Werner. “Der Flug durch die Luft zwischen Illusionstheorie und Real-
itätsbeweis: Studien zum sog. Kanon Episcopi und zum Hexenflug.” Zeitschrift
der Savigny-Stiftung für Rechtsgeschichte 116, Kan. Abt. 85 (1999): 225–76.
166 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

5. Witchcraft, Medicine, and Disease
Andreski, Stanislav. “The Syphilitic Shock: A New Explanation of the ‘Great
Witch Craze’ of the 16th and 17th Centuries in the Light of Medicine and
Psychiatry.” Encounter 58 (1982): 7–26.
Estes, Leland. “The Medical Origins of the European Witch Craze: A Hypoth-
esis.” Journal of Social History 17 (1983): 271–84.
Geyer-Kordesch, Johanna. “Whose Enlightenment? Medicine, Witchcraft,
Melancholia and Pathology.” In Medicine in the Enlightenment, ed. Roy
Porter. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 1994, 113–27.
Harner, Michael J. “The Role of Hallucinogenic Plants in European Witch-
craft.” In Hallucinogens and Shamanism, ed. Michael J. Harner. Oxford: Ox-
ford University Press, 1973, 125–50.
King, L. S. “Friedrich Hoffmann and Some Medical Aspects of Witchcraft.”
Clio Medica 9 (1974): 299–309.
———. “Witchcraft and Medicine: Conflicts in the Early Eighteenth Century.”
In Circa Tiliam: Studiae historiae medicinae Gerrit Arie Lindeboom septua-
genaria oblata. Leiden: Brill, 1974, 122–39.
Nemec, Jaroslav. Witchcraft and Medicine, 1484–1793. Washington D.C.: U.S.
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, 1974.
Piomelli, Daniele, and Antonio Pollio. “’In upupa o strige’: A Study in Renais-
sance Psychotropic Plant Ointments.” History and Philosophy of the Life
Sciences 16 (1994): 241–73.
Schoeneman, Thomas J. “Criticisms of the Psychopathological Interpretation
of the Witch-Hunts: A Review.” American Journal of Psychiatry 139 (1982):
1028–32.
———. “The Role of Mental Illness in the European Witch Hunts of the Six-
teenth and Seventeenth Centuries: An Assessment.” Journal of the History of
Behavioral Sciences 13 (1977): 337–51.
———. “The Witch Hunt as a Cultural Change Phenomenon.” Ethos 3 (1975):
529–54.
Sidky, H. Witchcraft, Lycanthropy, Drugs, and Disease: An Anthropological
Study of the European Witch-Hunts. New York: Peter Lang, 1997.
6. Women, Gender, and Witchcraft
Bailey, Michael D. “The Feminization of Magic and the Emerging Idea of the
Female Witch in the Late Middle Ages.” Essays in Medieval Studies 19
(2002): 120–34.
Barstow, Anne Llewellyn. Witchcraze: A New History of the European Witch
Hunts. San Francisco: Pandora, 1994.
Blöcker, Monica. “Frauenzauber—Zauberfrauen.” Zeitschrift für schweiz-
erische Kirchengeschichte 76 (1982): 1–39.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 167

Coudert, Allison P. “The Myth of the Improved Status of Protestant Woman:
The Case of the Witchcraze.” In The Politics of Gender in Early Modern Eu-
rope, ed. Jean R. Brink, Allison P. Coudert, and Maryanne C. Horowitz.
Kirksville, Mo.: Sixteenth Century Journal Publishers, 1989, 61–94.
Dienst, Heide. “Zur Rolle von Frauen im magischen Vorstellungen und Prak-
tiken—nach ausgewählten mittalterlichen Quellen.” In Frauen in Spätantike
und Frühmittelalter: Lebensbedingungen—Lebensnormen—Lebensformen,
ed. Werner Affeldt. Sigmaringen, Ger.: Thorbecke, 1990, 173–94.
Dinzelbacher, Peter. Heilige oder Hexen? Schicksale auffälliger Frauen im Mit-
telalter und Frühneuzeit. Munich: Artemis, 1995.
Ehrenreich, Barbara, and Deirdre English. Witches, Midwives and Nurses: A
History of Women Healers. New York: Feminist Press, 1973.
Garrett, Clarke. “Women and Witches: Patterns of Analysis.” Signs 3 (1977):
461–70.
Harley, David. “Historians as Demonologists: The Myth of the Midwife-
Witch.” Social History of Medicine 3 (1990): 1–26.
Heinemann, Evelyn. Witches: A Psychoanalytical Exploration of the Killing of
Women. Trans. Donald Kiraly. London: Free Association Books, 2000.
Hester, Marianne. Lewd Women and Wicked Witches: A Study of the Dynamics
of Male Domination. London: Routledge, 1992.
Holmes, Clive. “Women: Witnesses and Witches.” Past and Present 140
(1993): 45–78.
Horsley, Ritta Jo, and Richard A. Horsley. “On the Trail of the ‘Witches’: Wise
Women, Midwives and the European Witch Hunts.” In Women in German
Yearbook 3: Feminist Studies and German Culture, ed. Mariane Burkhard
and Edith Waldstein. Washington, D.C.: University of America Press, 1987,
1–28.
James-Raoul, Danièle. “La femme maléfique dans la literature Romanesque de
la fin du Moyen Age.” In Le mal et le diable: Leurs figures à la fin du Moyen
Age, ed. Nathalie Nabert. Paris: Beauchesne, 1996, 11–33.
Kittell, Ellen E. “Toward a Perspective on Women, Sex, and Witches in the
Later Middle Ages.” In Von Menschen und ihren Zeichen: Sozialhistorische
Untersuchungen 	zum 	Spätmittelalter 	und 	zur 	Neuzeit, 	ed. 	Ingrid
Matschinegg et al. Bielefeld, Ger.: Verlag für Regionalgeschichte, 1990,
13–40.
Klaniczay, Gábor. “Miraculum und maleficium: Einige Überlegungen zu den
wieblichen Heiligen des Mittelalters in Mitteleuropa.” Wissenschaftskolleg
Jahrbuch (1990/1991): 220–48.
Labouvie, Eva. “Männer im Hexenprozeß: Zur Sozialanthropologie eines
‘männlichen’ Verständnisses von Hexerei.” Geschichte und Gesellschaft 16
(1990): 56–78.
168 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

McLachlan, Hugh. “Witchcraft and Antifeminism.” Scottish Journal of Sociol-
ogy 4 (1980): 141–66.
Monter, E. William. “The Pedestal and the Stake: Courtly Love and Witch-
craft.” In Becoming Visible: Women in European History, ed. Renate Briden-
thal and Claudia Koonz. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1977, 119–36.
Opitz, Claudia, ed. Der Hexenstreit: Frauen in der frühneuzeitlichen Hexen-
verfolgung. Freiburg, Ger.: Herder, 1995.
Roper, Lyndal. Oedipus and the Devil: Witchcraft, Sexuality and Religion in
Early Modern Europe. London: Routledge, 1994.
Weston, L. M. C. “Women’s Medicine, Women’s Magic: The Old English Met-
rical Childbirth Charms.” Modern Philology 92 (1995): 279–93.
Wiesner, Mary E. Women and Gender in Early Modern Europe. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1993.
Williams, Selma R., and Pamela Williams Adelman. Riding the Nightmare:
Women and Witchcraft from the Old World to Colonial Salem. New York:
Harper, 1978.
7. Magic and Occult Science in the Era of the Witch-Hunts
Cook, John W. “Magic, Witchcraft, and Science.” Philosophical Investigations
6 (1983): 2–36.
Copenhaver, Brian P. “Scholastic Philosophy and Renaissance Magic in the De
vita of Marsilio Ficino.” Renaissance Quarterly 37 (1984): 632–80.
Couliano, Ioan P. Eros and Magic in the Renaissance. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1987.
Easlea, Brian. Witch Hunting, Magic and the New Philosophy: An Introduction
to the Debates of the Scientific Revolution 1450–1750. Atlantic Highlands,
N.J.: Humanities Press, 1980.
Gouk, Penelope. Music, Science and Natural Magic in Seventeenth-Century
England. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1999.
Idel, Mosche. “The Magical and Neoplatonic Interpretation of the Kabbala
in the Renaissance.” In Jewish Thought in the Sixteenth Century, ed.
Bernard D. Cooperman. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press,
186–242.
Jobe, Thomas Harmon. “The Devil in Restoration Science: The Glanvill-Webster
Witchcraft Debate.” Isis 72 (1981): 343–56.
León-Jones, Karen Silvia de. Giordano Bruno and the Kabbalah: Prophets,
Magicians, and Rabbis. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1997.
Mebane, John S. Renaissance Magic and the Return of the Golden Age: The
Occult Tradition and Marlowe, Johnson, and Shakespeare. Lincoln, Nebr.:
University of Nebraska Press, 1989.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 169

Merkel, Ingrid, and Allen G. Debus, eds. Hermeticism and the Renaissance: In-
tellectual History and the Occult in Early Modern Europe. Washington,
D.C.: Folger Shakespeare Library, 1988.
Shumaker, Wayne. The Occult Sciences in the Renaissance. Berkeley, Calif.:
University of California Press, 1972.
Tambiah, Stanley Jeyaraja. Magic, Science, Religion, and the Scope of Ratio-
nality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.
Walker, D. P. Spiritual and Demonic Magic from Ficino to Campanella. 1958.
Reprint University Park, Pa.: Pennsylvania State University Press, 2000.
Woolley, Benjamin. The Queen’s Conjurer: The Science and Magic of Dr. John
Dee, Advisor to Queen Elizabeth I. New York: Holt, 2001.
Yates, Frances A. The Art of Memory. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1966.
———. Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1964.
———. “The Hermetic Tradition in Renaissance Science.” In Art, Science, and
History in the Renaissance, ed. Charles S. Singleton. Baltimore, Md.: Johns
Hopkins Unviersity Press, 1967, 255–74.
———. The Occult Philosophy in the Elizabethan Age. London: Routledge, 1979.
———. The Rosicrucian Enlightenment. London: Routledge, 1972.
Zambelli, Paolo. “Magic and Radical Reformation in Agrippa of Nettesheim.”
Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institute 39 (1976): 69–103.
———. L’ambigua natura della magia: Filosofi, streghe, riti nel Rinascimento.
2nd ed. Venice: Marsilio, 1996.
Zika, Charles. “Reuchelin’s De verbo mirifico and the Magic Debate in the Late
Fifteenth Century.” Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institute 39
(1976): 104–38.
V. WITCHCRAFT IN MEDIEVAL AND
EARLY-MODERN EUROPE: REGIONAL STUDIES
1. British Isles
Anderson, Alan, and Raymond Gordon. “Witchcraft and the Status of Women:
The Case of England.” British Journal of Sociology 29 (1978): 171–84.
Bostridge, Ian. Witchcraft and Its Transformations c.1650–c.1750. Oxford:
Clarendon, 1997.
Byrne, Patrick. Witchcraft in Ireland. Cork: Mercier, 1975.
Clark, Stuart, and P. T. J. Morgan. “Religion and Magic in Elizabethan Wales:
Robert Holland’s Dialogue on Witchcraft.” Journal of Ecclesiastical History
27 (1976): 31–46.
170 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Cowan, Edward J. “The Darker Vision of the Scottish Renaissance: The Devil and
Francis Stewart.” In The Renaissance and Reformation in Scotland, ed. Ian. B.
Cowan and Duncan Shaw. Edinburgh: Scottish Academic Press, 1983, 125–40.
Crawford, Jane. “Evidence for Witchcraft in Anglo-Saxon England.” Medium
Aevum 32 (1963): 99–116.
Deacon, Richard. Matthew Hopkins: Witch-Finder General. London: Muller,
1976.
Durston, Gregory. Witchcraft and Witch Trials: A History of English Witchcraft
and its Legal Perspectives, 1542 to 1736. Chichester, Eng.: Barry Rose Law,
2000.
Gaskill, M. “The Devil in the Shape of a Man: Witchcraft, Conflict and Belief
in Jacobean England.” Historical Research 71 (1998): 142–71.
Geis, Gilbert, and Ivan Bunn. A Trial of Witches: A Seventeenth-Century Witch-
craft Prosecution. London: Routledge, 1997.
Gibson, Marion. Reading Witchcraft: Stories of Early English Witches. London:
Routledge, 1999.
Gregory, Annabel. “Witchcraft, Politics and ‘Good Neighbourhood’ in Early
Seventeenth-Century Rye.” Past and Present 133 (1991): 31–66.
Griffiths, Bill. Aspects of Anglo-Saxon Magic. Hockwold-cum-Wilton, Eng.:
Anglo-Saxon Books, 1996.
Guskin, Phyllis J. “The Context of Witchcraft: The Case of Jane Wenham
(1712).” Eighteenth Century Studies 15 (1981): 48–71.
Harley, David. “Mental Illness, Magical Medicine and the Devil in Northern
England, 1650–1700.” In The Medical Revolution of the Seventeenth Cen-
tury, ed. R. K. French and A. Wear. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1989, 114–44.
Holmes, Clive. “Popular Culture? Witches, Magistrates and Divines in Early
Modern England.” In Understanding Popular Culture: Europe from the Mid-
dle Ages to the Nineteenth Century, ed. Steven Kaplan. Berlin: Mouton,
1984, 85–111.
Holmes, Ronald. Witchcraft in British History. London: Muller, 1974.
Jolly, Karen Louise. “Anglo-Saxon Charms in the Context of a Christian World
View.” Journal of Medieval History 11 (1985): 279–93.
———. “Magic, Miracle, and Popular Practice in the Early Medieval West: Anglo-
Saxon England.” In Religion, Science, and Magic in Concert and in Conflict,
ed. Jacob Neusner, Ernest S. Frerichs, and Paul Virgil McCracken Flesher. Ox-
ford: Oxford University Press, 1989, 166–82.
———. Popular Religion in Late Saxon England: Elf Charms in Context.
Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North Carolina Press, 1996.
Kelly, H. A. “English Kings and the Fear of Sorcery.” Mediaeval Studies 39
(1977): 206–38.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 171

Lapoint, E. C. “Irish Immunity to Witch-Hunting, 1534–1711.” Éire-Ireland 27
(1992): 76–92.
Larner, Christina. Enemies of God: The Witch-Hunt in Scotland. Baltimore,
Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1981.
———. “Witch Beliefs and Witch-Hunting in England and Scotland.” History
Today 31 (February, 1981): 32–36.
Levack, Brian. “The Great Scottish Witch-Hunt of 1661–1662.” Journal of
British Studies 20 (1980): 90–108.
———. “Possession, Witchcraft and the Law in Jacobean England.” Washington
and Lee University Law Review 52 (1995): 1613–40.
Macfarlane, Alan. Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart England: A Regional and
Comparative Study. London: Routledge, 1970.
———. “Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart Essex.” In Crime in England
1550–1800, ed. J. S. Cockburn. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press,
1977, 72–89.
MacDonald, Michael, ed. Witchcraft and Hysteria in Elizabethan England: Ed-
ward Jorden and the Mary Glover Case. London: Routledge, 1991.
Maxwell-Stuart, P. G. “The Fear of the King is Death: James VI and the
Witches of East Lothian.” In Fear in Early Modern Society, ed. William C.
Naphy and Penny Roberts. Manchester, Eng.: Manchester University Press,
1997, 209–25.
———. Satan’s Conspiracy: Magic and Witchcraft in Sixteenth-Century Scot-
land. East Lothian, Scotland: Tuckwell, 2001.
Meaney, A. L. “Women, Witchcraft and Magic in Anglo-Saxon England.” In
Superstition and Popular Medicine in Anglo-Saxon England, ed. D. G.
Scragg. Manchester, Eng.: Manchester University Press, 1989, 9–40.
Norman, Lawrence, and Gareth Roberts. Witchcraft in Early Modern Scotland:
James VI’s Demonology and the North Berwick Witches. Exeter, Eng.: Uni-
versity of Exeter Press, 2000.
Peel, Edgar, and Pat Southern. The Trials of the Lancashire Witches: A Study of
Seventeenth-Century Witchcraft. 3rd ed. Nelson, Eng.: Hendon, 1985.
Rushton, Peter. “Women, Witchcraft, and Slander in Early Modern Europe:
Cases from the Church Courts of Durham.” Northern History 18 (1982):
116–32.
Sawyer, Ronald C. “ ‘Strangely handled in all her lyms’: Witchcraft and Heal-
ing in Jacobean England.” Journal of Social History 22 (1989): 461–85.
———. The Bewitching of Anne Gunter: A Horrible and True Story of Decep-
tion, Witchcraft, Murder, and the King of England. London: Routledge,
2001.
———. Instruments of Darkness: Witchcraft in Early Modern England.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1996.
———. Witchcraft in Early Modern England. London: Longman, 2001.
172 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

———. Witchcraft in Seventeenth-Century Yorkshire: Accusations and Counter-
Measures. York, Eng.: Bothwick Institute of Historical Research, 1992.
Sharpe, James. “Witchcraft and Women in Seventeenth-Century England:
Some Northern Evidence.” Continuity and Change 6 (1991): 179–99.
Stavreva, Kirilka. “Fighting Words: Witch-Speak in Late Elizabethan Docu-
fiction.” Journal of Medieval and Early Modern Studies 30 (2000): 309–38.
Swain, J. T. Witchcraft in Seventeenth Century England. Bristol, Eng.: Stuart
Press, 1994.
Swale, J. K., and Hugh McLachlan. “Witchcraft and the Status of Women.”
British Journal of Sociology 30 (1979): 349–58.
Thomas, Keith. Religion and the Decline of Magic. New York: Scribners, 1971.
Tourney, Garfield. “The Physician and Witchcraft in Restoration England.”
Medical History 16 (1972): 143–55.
Unsworth, C. R. “Witchcraft Beliefs and Criminal Procedure in Early Modern
England.” In Legal Record and Historical Reality, ed. Thomas Glyn Watkin.
London: Hambledon, 1989, 71–98.
Valletta, Frederick. Witchcraft, Magic, and Superstition in England, 1640–70.
Aldershot, Eng.: Ashgate, 2000.
Willis, Deborah. Malevolent Nurture: Witch-Hunting and Maternal Power in
Early Modern England. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1995.
2. Colonial America
Behar, R. “Sexual Witchcraft, Colonialism, and Women’s Powers: Views from the
Mexican Inquisition.” In Sexuality and Marriage in Colonial Latin America, ed.
Anunción Lavrin. Lincoln, Nebr.: University of Nebraska Press, 1989, 178–206.
Boyer, Paul, and Stephen Nissenbaum. Salem Possessed: The Social Origins of
Witchcraft. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1974.
Brown, David C. “The Case of Giles Cory.” Essex Institute Historical Collec-
tions 121 (1985): 162–81.
Caporael, Linda R. “Ergotism: The Satan Loosed in Salem?” Science 192
(1976): 21–26.
Carlson, Laurie Winn. A Fever in Salem: A New Interpretation of the New Eng-
land Witch Trials. Chicago: Ivan R. Dee, 1999.
Cervantes, Fernando. The Devil in the New World: The Impact of Diabolism in
New Spain. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1994.
———. “The Devils of Querétaro: Scepticism and Credulity in Late Seven-
teenth-Century Mexico.” Past and Present 130 (1991): 51–69.
———. Entertaining Satan: Witchcraft and the Culture of Early New England.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1982.
———. “John Godfrey and his Neighbors: Witchcraft and the Social Web in
Colonial Massachusetts.” William and Mary Quarterly 33 (1976): 242–65.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 173

Demos, John. “Underlying Themes in the Witchcraft of Seventeenth-Century
New England.” American Historical Review 75 (1970): 1311–26.
———. “John Godfrey and His Neighbors: Witchcraft and the Social Web in
Colonial Massachusetts.” William and Mary Quarterly 33 (1976):245–65.
———. Entertaining Satan: Witchcraft and the Culture of Early New English.
Drake, Frederick C. “Witchcraft in the American Colonies, 1647–62.” Ameri-
can Quarterly 20 (1968): 694–725.
Erikson, Kai T. “The Witches of Salem Village.” In On the Margin of the Visi-
ble: Sociology, the Esoteric, and the Occult, ed. Edward A. Tiryakian. New
York: Wiley, 1974, 209–14.
Fox, Sanford J. Science and Justice: The Massachusetts Witchcraft Trials. Bal-
timore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1968.
Gildrie, Richard, P. “The Salem Witchcraft Trials as a Crisis of Popular Imagi-
nation.” Essex Institute Historical Collections 128 (1992): 270–85.
———. “Visions of Evil: Popular Culture, Puritanism, and the Massachusetts
Witchcraft Crisis of 1692.” Journal of American Culture 8 (1985): 17–33.
Godbeer, Richard. The Devil’s Dominion: Magic and Religion in Early New
England. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992.
Gregg, Larry. The Salem Witch Crisis. New York: Praeger, 1992.
Hall, David D. “Witchcraft and the Limits of Interpretation.” New England
Quarterly 59 (1985): 253–81.
———. Worlds of Wonder, Days of Judgement: Popular Religious Belief in
Early New England. New York: Knopf, 1989.
Hansen, Chadwick. “Andover Witchcraft and the Causes of the Salem Witchcraft
Trials.” In The Occult in America: New Historical Perspectives, ed. Howard
Kerr and Charles L. Crow. Urbana, Ill.: University of Illinois Press, 1983, 38–57.
———. Witchcraft at Salem. New York: George Braziller, 1969.
Harley, David. “Explaining Salem: Calvinist Psychology and the Diagnosis of
Possession.” American Historical Review 101 (1996): 307–30.
Heyman, Christine L. “Specters of Subversion, Societies of Friends: Dissent
and the Devil in Provincial Essex County, Massachusetts.” In Saints and
Revolutionaries: Essays on Early American History, ed. David Hall, John M.
Murrin, and Thad W. Tate. New York: Norton, 1984, 38–74.
Hill, Frances. A Delusion of Satan: The Full Story of the Salem Witch Trials.
New York: Doubleday, 1995.
Hoffer, Peter Charles. The Devil’s Disciples: Makers of the Salem Witchcraft
Trials. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1996.
———. The Salem Witchcraft Trials: A Legal History. Lawrence, Kans.: Uni-
versity Press of Kansas, 1997.
Kamensky, Jane. “Words, Witches and Women Trouble: Witchcraft, Disorderly
Speech and Gender Boundaries in Puritan New England.” Essex Institute
Historical Collections 128 (1992): 286–306.
174 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Karlsen, Carol F. The Devil in the Shape of a Woman: Witchcraft in Colonial
New England. New York: Norton, 1987.
Kences, James E. “Some Unexplored Relationships of Essex County Witch-
craft to the Indian Wars of 1675 and 1689.” Essex Institute Historical Col-
lections 120 (1984): 179–212.
Kibbey, Ann. “Mutations of the Supernatural: Witchcraft, Remarkable Provi-
dences, and the Power of Puritan Men.” American Quarterly 34 (1982):
125–48.
Norton, Mary Beth. In the Devil’s Snare: The Salem Witchcraft Crisis of 1692.
New York: Knopf, 2002.
Owen, Dennis E. “Spectral Evidence: The Village Witchcraft Cosmology of
Salem Village in 1692.” In Essays in the Sociology of Perceptions, ed. Mary
Douglas. London: Routledge, 1982, 275–301.
Pearl, Jonathan L. “Witchcraft in New France in the Seventeenth Century: The
Social Aspects.” Historical Reflections 4 (1977): 191–205.
Reis, Elizabeth. Damned Women: Sinners and Witches in Puritan New England.
Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1997.
———. “The Devil, the Body, and the Feminine Soul in Puritan New England.”
Journal of American History 82 (1995): 15–36.
Reis, Elizabeth, ed. Spellbound: Women and Witchcraft in America. Wilming-
ton, Del.: Scholarly Resources, 1998.
Rosenthal, Bernard. Salem Story: Reading the Witch Trials of 1692. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1993.
Simmons, Mark. Witchcraft in the Southwest: Spanish and Indian Supernatural-
ism on the Rio Grande. Lincoln, Nebr.: University of Nebraska Press, 1974.
Taylor, John M. The Witchcraft Delusion: The Story of Witchcraft Persecutions
in Seventeenth-Century New England, Including Original Trial Transcripts.
New York: Gramercy, 1995.
Weiseman, Richard. Witchcraft, Magic, and Religion in Seventeenth Century
Massachusetts. Amherst, Mass.: University of Massachusetts Press, 1984.
Werking, Richard H. “‘Reformation Is Our Only Preservation’: Cotton Mather
and Salem Witchcraft.” William and Mary Quarterly 29 (1972): 281–90.
3. Eastern Europe
Kazhdan, Alexander. “Holy and Unholy Miracle Workers.” In Byzantine Magic,
ed. Henry Maguire. Washington, D.C.: Dumbarton Oaks, 1995, 73–82.
Kivelson, Valerie A. “Through the Prism of Witchcraft: Gender and Social
Change in Seventeenth-Century Muscovy.” In Russia’s Women: Accommoda-
tion, Resistance, Transformation, ed. Barbara E. Evans, Barbara A. Engel, and
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 175

Christine D. Worobec. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press, 1991,
74–94.
Klaniczay, Gábor. The Uses of Supernatural Power. Ed. Karen Margolis. Trans.
Susan Singerman. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1990.
Klaniczay, Gábor, and Éva Pócs, eds. Witch-Beliefs and Witch-Hunting in Cen-
tral and Eastern Europe. Budapest: n.p., 1994. Special issue of Acta Ethno-
graphica Hungarica 37 (1991–92).
Plakans, Andrejs. “Witches and Werewolves in Early Modern Livonia.” In Rät-
tea: En Festskrift till Bengt Ankarloo, ed. Lars M. Andersson et al. Lund,
Norway: Nordic Academic Press, 2000, 255–71.
Pócs, Éva. Between the Living and the Dead: A Perspective on Witches and
Seers in the Early Modern Age. Trans. Szilvia Rédey and Michael Webb.
Budapest: Central European University Press, 1999.
———. Fairies and Witches at the Boundary of South-Eastern and Central Eu-
rope. Helsinki: Suomalainen Tiedenkatemia, 1989.
Ryan, W. F. The Bathhouse at Midnight: A Historical Survey of Magic and Div-
ination in Russia. University Park, Pa.: Pennsylvania State University Press,
1999.
Tazbir, Janusz. “Hexenprozesse in Polen.” Archiv für Reformationsgeschichte
71 (1980): 280–307.
Zguta, Russell. “The Ordeal by Water (Swimming of Witches) in the East
Slavic World.” Slavic Review 82 (1977): 220–30.
———. “Was There a Witch-Craze in Muscovite Russia?” Southern Folklore
Quarterly 40 (1977): 119–27.
———. “Witchcraft and Medicine in Pre-Petrine Russia.” Russian Review 37
(1978): 438–48.
———. “Witchcraft Trials in Seventeenth-Century Russia.” American Histori-
cal Review 82 (1977): 1187–1207.
4. France and the Low Countries
Bordes, Françoise. Sorciers et sorcières: Procès de sorcellerie en Gascogne et
Pays Basque. Toulouse: Edition Privat, 1999.
Briggs, Robin. Communities of Belief: Culture and Social Tensions in Early
Modern France. Oxford: Clarendon, 1989.
———. “Witchcraft and Popular Mentality in Lorraine, 1580–1630.” In Occult
and Scientific Mentalities in the Renaissance, ed. Brian Vickers. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1984, 337–49.
———. “Women as Victims? Witches, Judges and the Community.” French His-
tory 5 (1991): 438–50.
Clark, Stuart. “The ‘Gendering’ of Witchcraft in French Demonology: Misog-
yny or Polarity?” French History 5 (1991): 426–37.
176 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Delcambre, Etienne. Le concept de sorcellerie dans le Duché de Lorraine au
XVIe et au XVIIe siècle. 3 vols. Nancy, 1948–51.
Diedler, Jean-Claude. Démons et sorcières en Lorraine: Le bien et le mal dans
les communautés rurales de 1550 à 1660. Paris: Messene, 1996.
Dupont-Bouchat, Marie-Sylvie. “Sorcellerie et superstition: L’attitude de l’Eglise
dans les Pays-Bas, XVIe–XVIIIe siècle.” In Magie, sorcellerie, parapsycholo-
gie, ed. Hervé Hasquin. Brussels: Université de Bruxelles, 1984, 61–83.
Dupont-Bouchat, Marie-Sylvie, ed. La sorcellerie dans les Pays-Bas sous l’An-
cien Régime: Aspects juridiques, institutionnels et sociaux. Courtrai, Bel-
gium: UGA, 1987.
Dupont-Bouchat, Marie-Sylvie, Willem Frijhoff, and Robert Muchembled, eds.
Prophètes et sorciers dans le Pays-Bas XVIe–XVIIIe siècle. Paris: Hachette,
1978.
Garrett, Clarke. “Witches and Cunning Folk in the Old Regime.” In The Wolf
and the Lamb: Popular Culture in France from the Old Regime to the Twen-
tieth Century, ed. Jacques Beauroy, Marc Betrand, and Edward T. Gargan.
Sarasota, Calif.: Anma Libri, 1976, 53–64.
Gauvard, Claude. “Paris, le Parlement et la sorcellerie au milieu du XVe siè-
cle.” In Finances, pouvoirs et memoire: Mélanges offerts à Jean Favier.
Paris: Fayard, 1999, 85–111.
Gijswijt-Hofstra, Marijke. “The European Witchcraft Debate and the Dutch
Variant.” Social History 15 (1990): 181–94.
———. “Witchcraft in the Northern Netherlands.” In Current Issues in Women’s
History, ed. Ariana Angerman et al. London: Routledge, 1974, 75–92.
Gijswijt-Hofstra, Marijke, and William Frijhoff, eds. Witchcraft in the Nether-
lands: From the Fourteenth to the Twentieth Century. Trans. Rachel M. J. van
der Wilden-Fall. Rotterdam: Universitaire Pers Rotterdam, 1991.
Jacques-Chaquin, Nicole, and Maxime Préaud. Les sorciers du carroi de Mar-
lou: Un procès de sorcellerie en Berry (1582–1583). Grenoble, France: Mil-
lon, 1996.
Klaits, Joseph. “Witchcraft Trials and Absolute Monarchy in Alsace.” In
Church, State, and Society under the Bourbon Kings of France, ed. Richard
M. Golden. Lawrence, Kans.: Coronado Press, 1982, 148–72.
Le Roy Ladurie, Emmanuel. Jasmin’s Witch. Trans. Brian Pierce. New York:
George Braziller, 1987.
———. Montaillou: The Promised Land of Error. Trans. Barbara Bray. New
York: George Braziller, 1978.
Mandrou, Robert. Magistrats et sorciers en France au XVIIe siècle: Une
analyse de psychologie historique. Paris: Seuil, 1968.
Monter, E. William. Judging the French Reformation: Heresy Trials by Six-
teenth Century Parlements. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press,
1999.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 177

———. “Toads and Eucharists: The Male Witches of Normandy, 1564–1660.”
French Historical Studies 20 (1997): 563–95.
Muchembled, Robert. Les derniers bûchers: Un village de Flandre et ses sor-
cières sous Louis XIV. Paris: Ramsay, 1981.
———. Popular Culture and Elite Culture in France, 1400–1750. Trans. Lydia
Cochrane. Baton Rouge, La.: Louisiana State University Press, 1985.
———. Sorcières, justice et société aux 16e et 17e siècles. Paris: Imago, 1987.
———. “Witchcraft, Popular Culture, and Christianity in the Sixteenth Century,
with an Emphasis upon Flanders and Artois.” In Ritual, Religion, and the Sa-
cred, Selections from the Annales—economies, sociétes, civilizations, vol. 7,
ed. Robert Forster and Orest Ranum, trans. Elborg Forster and Particia M.
Ranum. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1982, 213–36.
———. “The Witches of the Cambrésis: The Acculturation of the Rural World
in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries.” In Religion and the People,
800–1700, ed. James Obelkevich. Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North
Carolina Press, 1979, 221–76, 315–23.
Oates, Caroline. “The Trial of a Teenage Werewolf, Bordeaux, 1603.” Criminal
Justice History 9 (1988): 1–29.
Paravy, Pierrette. De la Chrétienté romaine à la Réforme en Dauphiné: Evêques,
fidèles et déviants (vers 1340–vers 1530). 2 vols. Rome: Ecole française de
Rome, 1993.
———. “Faire Croire: Quelques hypothèse de recherche basées sur l’étude des
procès de sorcellerie du Dauphiné au XVe siècle.” In Faire Croire: Modal-
ités de la diffusion et la reception des messages religieux du XIIe au XVe siè-
cle. Rome: Ecole française de Rome, 1981, 119–30.
———. “Streghe e stregoni nella società del Delfinato nel XV secolo.” In Poteri
carismatici e informali: Chiesa e società medioevali, ed. Agostino Paravicini
Bagliani and André Vauchez. Palermo, Italy: Sellerio, 1992, 78–92.
Rapley, Robert. A Case of Witchcraft: The Trial of Urbain Grandier. Montreal:
McGill-Queen’s University Press, 1998.
Rochelandet, Brigitte. Sorcières, diables et bûchers en Franche-Comté aux
XVIe et XVIIe siècles. Besançon, France: Cêtre, 1997
Soman, Alfred. “Decriminalizing Witchcraft: Does the French Experience Fur-
nish a European Model?” Criminal Justice History 10 (1989): 1–22.
———. “La décriminilisation de la sorcellerie en France.” Histoire, économie et
société 4 (1985): 179–203.
———. “The Parlement of Paris and the Great Witch Hunt (1565–1640).” Six-
teenth Century Journal 9 (1978): 31–44.
———. Sorcellerie et justice criminelle: Parlement de Paris (16e–18e siècles).
London: Variorum, 1992.
———. “Trente procès de sorcellerie dans le Perche (1566–1624).” L’orne lit-
téraire 8 (1986): 42–57.
178 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

———. “Witch Lynching at Juniville.” Natural History 95 (1986): 6–15.
Villette, Pierre. La sorcellerie et sa repression dans le nord de la France. Paris:
Pensée universelle, 1976.
Wilkins, Kay S. “Attitudes to Witchcraft and Demonic Possession in France
during the Eighteenth Century.” Journal of European Studies 3 (1973):
348–62.
5. German Lands
Ahrendt-Schulte, Ingrid. Zauberinnen in der Stadt Horn (1554–1603): Magis-
che Kultur und Hexenverfolgung in der Frühen Neuzeit. Frankfurt: Campus,
1997.
Alfing, Sabine. Hexenjagd und Zaubereiprozesse in Münster: Vom Umgang mit
Sündenböcken in den Krisenzeiten des 16. und 17. Jahrhunderts. Münster,
Ger.: Waxmann, 1991.
Baumgarten, Achim B. Hexenwahn und Hexenverfolgung im Naheraum: Ein
Beitrag zur Sozial- und Kulturgeschichte. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 1987.
Behringer, Wolfgang. Mit dem Feuer vom Leben zum Tod: Hexengesetzgebung
in Bayern. Munich: Hugendubel, 1988.
———. Shaman of Oberstdorf: Chonrad Stoeckhlin and the Phantoms of the
Night. Trans. H. C. Erik Midelfort. Charlottesville, Va.: University of Vir-
ginia Press, 1998.
———. Witchcraft Persecutions in Bavaria: Popular Magic, Religious Zealotry
and Reason of State in Early Modern Europe. Trans. J. C. Grayson and
David Lederer. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998.
Benedikter, Hans. Hexen und Zauberer in Tirol. Bozen, Italy: Athesia, 2000.
Brauner, Sigrid. Fearless Wives and Frightened Shrews: The Construction of
the Witch in Early Modern Germany. Ed. Robert H. Brown. Amherst, Mass.:
University of Massachusetts Press, 1995.
Degn, Christian, Hartmut Lehmann, and Dagmar Unverhau, eds. Hexen-
prozesse: Deutsche und skandinavische Beiträge. Neumünster, Ger.: Wach-
holtz, 1983.
Dillinger, Johannes. “Böse Leute”: Hexenverfolgungen in Schwäbisch-Österre-
ich und Kurtrier im Vergleich. Trier, Ger.: Spee, 1999.
Dillinger, Johannes, Thomas Fritz, and Wolfgang Mährle. Zum Feuer ver-
dammt: Die Hexenverfolgungen in der Grafschaft Hohenberg, der Re-
ichsstadt Reutlingen und der Fürstpropstei Ellwangen. Stuttgart, Ger.:
Steiner, 1998.
Gebhard, Horst Heinrich. Hexenprozesse im Kürfurstentum Mainz des 17.
Jarhhunderts. Aschaffenburg, Ger.: Geschichts- und Kunstverein Aschaffen-
burg, 1989.
Gehm, Britta. Die Hexenverfolgung im Hochstift Bamberg und das Eingreifen
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 179

des Reichhofrates zu ihrer Beendigung. Hildesheim, Ger.: Georg Olms,
2000.
Hsia, R. Po-chia. The Myth of Ritual Murder: Jews and Magic in Reformation
Germany. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1988.
Jerouschek, Günther. Die Hexen und ihr Prozess: Die Hexenverfolgung in der
Reichstadt Esslingen. Esslingen, Ger.: Stadtarchiv, 1992.
Koppenhöfer, Johanna. Die mitleidlose Gesellschaft: Studien zu Verdachtsge-
nese, Ausgrenzungsverhalten und Prozessproblematik im frühneuzeitlichen
Hexenprozeß in der alten Grafschaft Nassau unter Johann VI. und der
späteren Teilgrafschaft Nassau-Dillenburg (1559–1687). Frankfurt: Peter
Lang, 1995.
Kunstmann, Harmut H. Zauberwahn und Hexenprozesse in der Reichsstadt
Nürnberg. Nuremberg, Ger.: Stadtarchiv, 1970.
Kunze, Michael. Highroad to the Stake: A Tale of Witchcraft. Trans. William E.
Yuill. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987.
Labouvie, Eva. Verbotene Künste: Volksmagie und ländlicher Aberglaube in
den Dorfgemeinde des Saarraumes (16.–19. Jahrhundert). St. Ingbert, Ger.:
Röhrig, 1992.
———. Zauberei und Hexenwerk: Ländlicher Hexenglaube in der Frühen
Neuzeit. Frankfurt: Fischer, 1991.
Lambrech, Karen. Hexenverfolgung und Zaubereiprozesse in den schlesischen
Territorien. Cologne: Böhlau, 1995.
Lehmann, Hartmut. “The Persecution of Witches as Restoration of Order: The
Case of Germany, 1590s–1650s.” Central European History 21 (1988):
107–21.
Lorenz, Sönke. Aktenversendung und Hexenprozess: Dargestellt am Beispiel
der Juristenfakultäten Rostock und Greifswald (1570/82–1630). 2 vols.
Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 1982–83.
Lorenz, Sönke, ed. Hexen und Hexenverfolgung im deutschen Südwesten. Ost-
fildern bei Stuttgart, Ger.: Cantz, 1994.
Lorenz, Sönke, and Dieter Bauer, eds. Das Ende der Hexenverfolgung.
Stuttgart, Ger.: Steiner, 1995.
Midelfort, H. C. Erik. Hexenverfolgung: Beiträge zur Forschung, unter beson-
derer Berücksichtigung des südwestdeutschen Raumes. Würzburg, Ger.:
Königshausen & Neumann, 1995.
———. “Heartland of the Witchcraze: Central and Northern Europe.” History
Today 31 (February, 1981): 27–31.
———. A History of Madness in Sixteenth-Century Germany. Stanford, Calif.:
Stanford University Press, 1999.
———. Witch Hunting in Southwestern Germany, 1562–1684: The Social and
Intellectual Foundations. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1972.
180 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

———. “Witchcraft and Religion in Sixteenth-Century Germany: The Forma-
tion and Consequences of an Orthodoxy.” Archiv für Reformationsgeschichte
62 (1971): 266–78.
Niederstätter, Alois, and Wolfgang Scheffknecht, eds. Hexen oder Hausfrau:
Das Bild der Frau in der Geschichte Vorarlbergs. Sigmaringendorf, Ger.:
Glock & Lutz, 1991.
Pohl, Herbert. Zauberglaube und Hexenangst im Kurfürstentum Mainz: Ein
Beitrag zur Hexenfrage im 16. und beginnenden 17. Jarhrhundert. 2nd ed.
Stuttgart, Ger.: Franz Steiner, 1998.
Renczes, Andrea. Wie löscht man eine Familie aus? Eine Analyse Bamberger
Hexenprozesse. Pfaffenweiler, Ger.: Centaurus, 1990.
Roper, Lyndal. “ ‘Evil Imaginings and Fantasies’: Child-Witches and the End
of the Witch Craze.” Past and Present 167 (2000): 107–39.
Rowlands, Alison. “Witchcraft and Old Women in Early Modern Germany.”
Past and Present 173 (2001): 50–89.
———. “Witchcraft and Popular Religion in Early Modern Rothenburg ob der
Tauber.” In Popular Religion in Germany and Central Europe, 1400–1800,
ed. Bob Scribner and Trevor Johnson. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1996,
101–18, 245–49.
Rummel, Walter. Bauern, Herren und Hexen: Studien zur Sozialgeschichte
sponheimischer und kurtrierischer Hexenprozesse, 1574–1664. Göttingen,
Ger.: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1991.
Saatkamp, Marielies. Bekandt daß sie ein Zaubersche were: Zur Geschichte der
Hexenverfolgung im Westmünsterland. Vreden, Ger.: Landeskundliches In-
stitut Westmünsterland, 1994.
Sabean, David Warren. “The Sacred Bond of Unity: Community Through the
Eyes of a Thirteen-Year-Old Witch (1683).” In David Warren Sabean, The
Power in the Blood: Popular Culture and Village Discourse in Early Modern
Germany. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1984, 94–112.
Schmidt, Jügen Michael. Glaube und Skepsis: Die Kurpfalz und die
abendländische Hexenverfolgung 1446–1685. Bielefeld, Ger.: Verlag für Re-
gionalgeschichte, 2000.
Schormann, Gerhard. Hexenprozesse in Deutschland. 3rd ed. Göttingen, Ger.:
Vandenhoek & Ruprecht, 1996.
———. Hexenprozesse in Nordwestdeutschland. Hildesheim, Ger.: Lax,
1977.
———. Der Krieg gegen die Hexen: Das Ausrottungsprogramm des Kurfürsten
von Köln. Göttingen, Ger.: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1991.
Schulte, Rolf. Hexenmeister: Die Verfolgung von Männern im Rahmen der
Hexenverfolgung von 1530–1730 im alten Reich. Frankfurt: Peter Lang,
2000.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 181

Schwillus, Herald. Kleriker im Hexenprozeß: Geistliche als Opfer der Hexen-
prozesse des 16. und 17. Jahrhunderts in Deutschland. Würzburg, Ger.:
Echter Verlag, 1992.
Scribner, Robert W. “Magic and the Formation of Protestant Popular Culture in
Germany.” In R. W. Scribner, Religion and Culture in Germany
(1400–1800), ed. Lyndal Roper. Leiden: Brill, 2001, 323–45.
———. “Magie und Aberglaube: Zur volkstümlichen sakramentalischen
Denkart in Deutschland am Ausgang des Mittelalters.” In Volksreligion im
hohen und späten Mittelalter, ed. Peter Dinzelbacher and Dieter R. Bauer.
Paderborn, Ger.: Schöningh, 1990, 253–73.
———. “Witchcraft and Judgment in Reformation Germany.” History Today 40
(April, 1990): 12–19.
Thieser, Bernd. Die Oberpfalz im Zusammenhang des Hexenprozessgeschehens
im süddeutschen Raum während des 16. und 17. Jahrhunderts. Bayreuth,
Ger.: Hagen, 1987.
Tschaikner, Manfred. “Damit das Böse ausgerottet werde”: Hexenverfolgun-
gen im Vorarlberg im 16. und 17. Jahrhundert. Bregenz, Austria: Vorarl-
berger Autoren Gesellschaft, 1992.
Walinski-Kiehl, Robert S. “The Devil’s Children: Child Witch-trials in Early
Modern Germany.” Continuity and Change 11 (1996): 171–89.
———. “‘Godly States’: Confessional Conflict and Witch-hunting in Early
Modern Germany.” Mentalities 5 (1988): 13–24.
Walz, Rainer. Hexenglaube und magische Kommunikation im Dorf der frühen
Neuzeit: Die Verfolgungen in der Grafschaft Lippe. Paderborn, Ger.: Schön-
ingh, 1993.
Wilbertz, Gisela, Gerd Schwerhoff and Jürgen Scheffler, eds. Hexenverfolgung
und Regionalgeschichte: Die Grafschaft Lippe im Vergleich. Bielefeld, Ger.:
Verlag für Regionalgeschichte, 1994.
Zeck, Mario. “Im Rauch gehn Himmel geschüggt”: Hexenverfolgungen in der
Reichsstadt Rottweill. Stuttgart, Ger.: Ibidem Verlag, 2000.
6. Italy, Portugal, and Spain
Bertolotti, Maurizio. “The Ox’s Bones and the Ox’s Hide: A Popular Myth, Part
Hagiography and Part Witchcraft.” Trans. Eren Branch. In Microhistory and
the Lost Peoples of Europe, ed. Edward Muir and Guido Ruggiero. Balti-
more, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1991, 42–70.
Blécourt, Willem de. “Spuren einer Volkskultur oder Dämonisierung? Kritische
Bemerkungen zu Ginzburgs ‘Die Benandanti.’” Kea: Zeitschrift für Kultur-
wissenschaften 5 (1993): 17–29.
Bonomo, Giuseppe. Caccia alle streghe: Le credenza nelle streghe dal sec. XIII
al XIX con particolare riferimento all’Italia. 3rd ed. Palermo, Italy:
Palumbo, 1986.
182 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Brucker, Gene A. “Sorcery in Early Renaissance Florence.” Studies in the Re-
naissance 10 (1963): 7–24.
Cassar, Carmel. “Witchcraft Beliefs and Social Control in Seventeeth-Century
Malta.” Journal of Mediterranean Studies 3 (1993): 316–34.
———. Witchcraft, Sorcery, and the Inquisition: A Study of Cultural Values in
Early Modern Malta. Msida, Malta: Mireva, 1996.
Centini, Massimo. Streghe, roghi e diavoli: I processi di stregoneria in
Piemonte. Cuneo, Italy: L’arciere, 1995.
Corrêa De Melo, M. C. “Witchcraft in Portugal During the Eighteenth Century,
Analysed Through the Accusations of the Tribunal do Santo Oficio de
Evora.” In Transactions of the Eighth International Congress on the En-
lightenment, Studies on Voltaire and the Eighteenth Century, vol. 303. Ox-
ford: Voltaire Foundation, 1992, 573–78.
Deutscher, Thomas. “The Role of the Episcopal Tribunal of Novara in the Sup-
pression of Heresy and Witchcraft, 1563–1615.” Catholic Historical Review
77 (1991): 403–21.
Fiume, Giovanna. “The Old Vinegar Lady, or the Judicial Modernization of the
Crime of Witchcraft.” Trans. Margaret A. Gallucci. In History from Crime,
ed. Edward Muir and Guido Ruggiero. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity Press, 1994, 65–87.
Gari Lacruz, Angel. “Variedad de competencias en el delito de brujería
1600–1650 en Aragón,” in La Inquisicíon Española: Nueva vision, nueva hor-
izonte. Ed. Joaquín Perez Villanueva. Marid: Siglo Veintiuno, 1980, 319–27.
Gemmo, Roberto. Streghe e magia: Episodi di opposizione religiosa popolare
sulle Alpi del Seicento. Biella, Italy: ELF, 1994.
Gentilcore, David. “The Church, the Devil and the Healing Activities of Living
Saints in the Kingdom of Naples after the Council of Trent.” In Medicine and
the Reformation, ed. Ole Peter Grell and Andrew Cunningham. London:
Routledge, 1993, 134–55.
———. From Bishop to Witch: The System of the Sacred in Early Modern Terra
d’Otranto. Manchester, Eng.: Manchester University Press, 1992.
———. Healers and Healing in Early Modern Italy. Manchester, Eng.: Man-
chester University Press, 1998.
Gil del Rio, Alfredo. Inquisición y brujería. Madrid: Casset, 1992.
Ginzburg, Carlo. The Night Battles: Witchcraft and Agrarian Cults in the Six-
teenth and Seventeenth Centuries. Trans. John and Anne Tedeschi. Balti-
more, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1983.
———. “Witchcraft and Popular Piety: Notes on a Modenese Trial of 1519.” In
Carlo Ginzburg, Clues, Myths, and the Historical Method, trans. John and
Anne Tedeschi. Baltimore, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989, 1–16.
Guggino, Elsa. La magia in Sicilia. Palermo, Italy: Sallerio, 1978.
Haliczer, Gustav. Inquisition and Society in the Kingdom of Valencia,
1478–1834. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press, 1990.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 183

Henningsen, Gustav. “The Greatest Witch-Trial of All: Navarre, 1609–14.”
History Today 30 (November 1980): 36–39.
———. The Witches’ Advocate: Basque Witchcraft and the Spanish Inquisition.
Reno, Nev.: University of Nevada Press, 1980.
Loriga, Sabina. “A Secret to Kill the King: Magic and Protection in Piedmont
in the Eighteenth Century.” Trans. Margaret A. Gallussi and Corrada Biazzo
Curry. In History from Crime, ed. Edward Muir and Guido Ruggiero. Balti-
more, Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1994, 88–109.
Martin, Ruth. Witchcraft and the Inquisition in Venice, 1550–1650. Oxford: Ox-
ford University Press, 1989.
Monter, E. William. Frontiers of Heresy: The Spanish Inquisition from the
Basque Lands to Sicily. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1990.
Mormando, Franco. “Bernardino of Siena, Popular Preacher and Witch-Hunter:
A 1426 Witch Trial in Rome.” Fifteenth Century Studies 24 (1998): 84–118.
———. The Preacher’s Demons: Bernardino of Siena and the Social Underworld
of Early Renaissance Italy. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1999.
Nardon, Franco. Benandanti e inquisitori nel Friuli del Seicento. Trieste, Italy:
Università di Trieste, 1999.
O’Niel, Mary. “Magical Healing, Love Magic and the Inquisition in Late Six-
teenth-Century Modena.” In Inquisition and Society in Early Modern Eu-
rope, ed. Stephen Haliczer. Totowa, N.J.: Barnes and Noble, 1987, 88–114.
———. “Sacerdote ovvero strione: Ecclesiastical and Superstitious Remedies in
16th-Century Italy.” In Understanding Popular Culture: Europe from the
Middle Ages to the Nineteeth Century, ed. Steven Kaplan. Berlin: Mouton,
1984, 53–83.
Paton, Bernadette. “‘To the Fire, to the Fire! Let Us Burn a Little Incense to
God’: Bernardino, Preaching Friars, and Maleficio in Late Medieval Siena.”
In No Gods Except Me: Orthodoxy and Religious Practice in Europe,
1200–1600, ed. Charles Zika. Parkville, Australia: University of Melbourne
History Department, 1991, 9–14.
Romeo, Giovanni. Inquisitori, esorcisti e streghe nell’Italia della Controri-
forma. Florence: Sansoni, 1990.
Ruggiero, Guido. Binding Passions: Tales of Magic, Marriage and Power at the
End of the Renaissance. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1993.
———. “The Strange Death of Margarita Marcellini: Male, Signs, and the
Everyday World of Pre-Modern Medicine.” American Historical Review 106
(2001): 1141–58.
Sánchez Ortega, M. H. “Sorcery and Eroticism in Love Magic.” In Cultural En-
counters: The Impact of the Inquisition in Spain and the New World, ed.
Mary Elizabeth Perry and Anne J. Cruz. Berkeley, Calif.: University of Cal-
ifornia Press, 1991, 58–92.
184 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

———. “Women as a Source of ‘Evil’ in Counter-Reformation Spain.” In Cul-
ture and Control in Counter-Reformation Spain, ed. Anne J. Cruz and Mary
Elizabeth Perry. Minneapolis, Minn.: University of Minnesota Press, 1992,
196–215.
Scully, Sally. “Marriage or a Career? Witchcraft as an Alternative in Seventeeth-
Century Venice.” Journal of Social History 28 (1995): 857–76.
Tausiet, María. Ponzona en los ojos: Brujería y superstición en Aragón en el
siglo XVI. Zaragoza, Spain: Institución Fernando el Católico, 2000.
Tedeschi, John. “The Roman Inquisition and Witchcraft: An Early 17th-Century
‘Instruction’ on Correct Trial Procedure.” Revue de l’histoire des religions
200 (1983): 163–88.
Villarín, Juan. La hechiceria en Madrid: Brujas, maleficios, encantamientos y
sugestiones de la villa y corte. Madrid: Avapiés, 1993.
Zabala, Mikel. Brujería e inquisición en Bizkaia (siglos XVI y XVII). Bilbao,
Spain: Ekain, 2000.
Zanelli, Giuliana. Streghe e società: Nell’Emilia e Romagna del cinque-seicento.
Ravenna, Italy: Longo, 1992.
7. Scandinavia
Degn, Christian, Harmut Lehmann, and Dagmar Unverhau, eds. Hexen-
prozesse: Deutsche und skandinavische Beiträge. Neumünster, Ger.: Wach-
holtz, 1983.
Ellison, R. C. “The Kirkjuból Affair: A Seventeenth-Century Icelandic Witch-
craft Case Analysed.” The Seventeenth Century 8 (1993): 217–43.
Henningsen, Gustav. “Witch Hunting in Denmark.” Folklore 93 (1982): 131–37.
Jochens, Jenny. “Hexerie eller Blind Allarm: Recent Scandinavian Witchcraft
Studies.” Scandinavian Studies 65 (1993): 103–13.
———. “Magie et différences des sexes dans les mythes et la société germanico-
nordique.” Cahiers de civilisation médiévale, Xe–XII siècles 36 (1993):
375–89.
———. “Old Norse Magic and Gender.” Scandinavian Studies 63 (1993): 305–17.
Johanesen, Jens Christian V. “Superstition and Witchcraft in Reformation
Scadinavia.” In The Scandinavian Reformation: From Evangelical Move-
ment to Institutionalisation of Reform, ed. Ole Peter Grell. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1995, 179–211.
Miller, W. I. “Dreams, Prophecy and Sorcery: Blaming the Secret Offender in
Medieval Iceland.” Scandinavian Studies 58 (1986): 101–23.
Mitchell, S. A. “Nordic Witchcraft in Transition.” Scandia 63 (1997): 17–33.
Morris, Katherine. Sorceress or Witch? The Image of Gender in Medieval Ice-
land and Northern Europe. Lanham, Md.: University Press of America, 1991.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 185

Neronen, M. “‘Envious Are All the People, Witches Watch at Every Gate’:
Finnish Witches and Witch Trials in the 17th Century.” Scandinavian Jour-
nal of History 18 (1993): 77–91.
Sörlin, Per. Wicked Arts: Witchcraft and Magic Trials in Southern Sweden,
1635–1734. Leiden: Brill, 1998.
Willumsen, L. H. “Witchcraft of the High North: The Finnmark Witchcraft
Trial in the Seventeenth Century.” Scandinavian Journal of History 22
(1997): 199–221.
8. Switzerland
Andenmatten, Bernard, and Kathrin Utz Tremp. “De l’hérésie à la sorcellerie:
L’inquisiteur Ulric de Torrenté OP (vers 1420–1445) et l’affermissement de
l’inquisition en Suisse romande.” Revue écclesiastique Suisse 86 (1992):
69–119.
Binz, Louis. “Les débuts de la chasse aux sorcières dans le diocèse de Genève.”
Bibliothèque d’Humanisme et de Renaissance 59 (1997): 561–81.
Blauert, Andreas. Frühe Hexenverfolgungen: Ketzer-, Zauberei- und Hexen-
prozesse des 15. Jahrhunderts. Hamburg: Junius, 1989.
———. “Hexenverfolgung in einer Spätmittelalterlichen Gemeinde: Der Beispiel
Kriens/Luzern um 1500.” Geschichte und Gesellschaft 16 (1990): 8–25.
Blöcker, Monica. “Ein Zaubereiprozess im Jahre 1028.” Schweizerische
Zeitschrift für Geschichte 29 (1979): 533–55.
Borst, Arno. “The Origins of the Witch-craze in the Alps.” In Arno Borst, Me-
dieval Worlds: Barbarians, Heretics, and Artists in the Middle Ages, trans.
Eric Hansen. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992, 101–22.
Broye, Christian. Sorcellerie et superstitions à Genève, XVIe–XVIIIe siècles.
Geneva: Concepte Moderne, 1990.
Burghartz, Susanna. “The Equation of Women and Witches: A Case Study of
Witchcraft Trials in Lucerne and Lausanne in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth
Centuries.” In The German Underworld: Deviants and Outcasts in German
History, ed. Richard J. Evans. London: Routledge, 1988: 57–74.
Choffat, Pierre-Han. La sorcellerie comme exutoire: Tensions et conflicts locaux,
Dommartin 1524–1528. Lausanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne, 1989.
Kamber, Peter. “La chasse aux sorciers et aux sorcières dan le Pays de Vaud: As-
pects quantitatifs (1581–1620).” Revue historique vaudoise 90 (1982): 21–33.
Maier, Eva. Trente ans avec le diable: Une nouvelle chasse aux sorciers sur la
Riviera lémanique (1477–1484). Lausanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne,
1996.
Mazzali, Tiziana. Il martirio delle streghe: Una nuova dramatica testimonianza
dell’Inquisizione laica del Seicento. Milan: Xenia, 1988.
186 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Modestin, Georg. Le diable chez l’évêque: Chasse aux sorciers dans le diocèse
de Lausanne (vers 1460). Lausanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne, 1999.
———. “Der Teufel in der Landschaft: Zur politik der Hexenverfolgungen im
heutigen Kanton Freiburg von 1440 bis 1470.” Freiburger Geschichtsblätter
76 (1999): 81–122.
———. Witchcraft in France and Switzerland: The Borderlands During the Re-
formation. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1976.
———. “Witchcraft in Geneva, 1537–1662.” Journal of Modern History 43
(1971): 179–204.
———. “Wozu brauch man Hexen? Herrschaft und Verfolgung in Châtel-Saint-
Denis (1444–1465).” Freiburger Geschichtsblätter 77 (2000): 107–29.
Monter, E. William. “Patterns of Witchcraft in the Jura.” Journal of Social His-
tory 5 (1971): 1–29.
Ostorero, Martine. “Folâtrer avec les demons”: Sabbat et chasse aux sorciers
à Vevey (1448). Lausanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne, 1995.
Pfister, Laurence. L’enfer sur terre: Sorcellerie à Dommartin (1498). Lau-
sanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne, 1997.
Strobino, Sandrine. Françoise sauvée des flammes? Une Valaisanne accusée de
sorcellerie au XVe siècle. Lausanne, Switz.: Université de Lausanne, 1996.
Utz Tremp, Kathrin. “Ist Glaubenssache Frauensache? Zu den Anfängen der
Hexenverfolgungen im Freiburg (um 1440).” Freiburger Geschichtsblätter
72 (1995): 9–50.
Zumsteg, Fabienne Taric. Les sorciers à l’assaut du village Gollion (1615–1631).
Lausanne, Switz.: Zèbre, 2000.
VI. THE DEVIL AND DEMONOLOGY,
POSSESSION AND EXORCISM
Caciola, Nancy. “Mystics, Demoniacs, and the Physiology of Spirit Possession
in Medieval Europe.” Comparative Studies in Society and History 42 (2000):
268–306.
Certeau, Michel de. The Possession at Loudun. Trans. Michael B. Smith.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996.
Clark, Stuart. “The Rational Witchfinders: Concensus, Demonological Natural-
ism and Popular Superstitions.” In Science, Culture, and Popular Belief in Re-
naissance Europe, ed. Stephen Pumfrey, Paolo L. Rossi, and Maurice Slaw-
inski. Manchester, Eng.: Manchester University Press, 1991, 225–38.
———. “The Scientific Status of Demonology.” In Occult and Scientific Men-
talities in the Renaissance, ed. Brian Vickers. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1984, 351–74.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 187

Dendle, Peter. Satan Unbound: The Devil in Old English Narrative Literature.
Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2001.
Elliott, Dyan. Fallen Bodies: Pollution, Sexuality, and Demonology in the Mid-
dle Ages. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1999.
———. “Seeing Double: John Gerson, the Discernment of Spirits, and Joan of
Arc.” American Historical Review 107 (2002): 26–54.
Ferguson, Everett. Demonology of the Early Christian World. Lewiston, N.Y.:
Mellen, 1984.
Finlay, Anthony. Demons! The Devil, Possession and Exorcism. London: Blan-
ford, 1999.
Gérest, Claude. “Der Teufel in der theologischen Landschaft der Hexenjäger
des 15. Jahrhunderts.” Concilium 2 (1975): 173–83.
Goddu, André. “The Failure of Exorcism in the Middle Ages.” Soziale Ordnung
im Selbstverständnis des Mittelalters 12 (1980): 540–57.
Haag, Herbert. Teufelsglaube. Tübingen, Ger.: Katzmann, 1972.
Jelsma, Auke. “The Devil and Protestantism.” In Auke Jelsma, Frontiers of the
Reformation: Dissidence and Orthodoxy in Sixteenth-Century Europe.
Aldershot, Eng.: Ashgate, 1998: 25–39.
Kelly, Henry Ansgar. The Devil, Demonology and Witchcraft: The Develop-
ment of Christian Beliefs in Evil Spirits. Rev. ed. New York: Doubleday,
1974.
Kirsch, Irving. “Demonology and Science during the Scientific Revolution.”
Journal of the History of Behavioral Sciences 16 (1980): 359–68.
Kreiser, B. Robert. “The Devils of Toulon: Demonic Possession and Religious
Politics in Eighteenth-Century Provence.” In Church, State, and Society un-
der the Bourbon Kings of France, ed. Richard M. Golden. Lawrence, Kans.:
Coronado Press, 1982, 173–221.
Lecouteux, Claude. Démons et genies du terroir au Moyen Age. Paris: Imago,
1995.
Maggi, Armando. Satan’s Rhetoric: A Study of Renaissance Demonology.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2001.
Midelfort, H. C. Erik. “Catholic and Lutheran Reactions to Demon Possession
in the Late Seventeenth Century: Two Case Histories.” Daphis 15 (1986):
623–48.
———. “The Devil and the German People: Reflections on the Popularity of
Demon Possession in Sixteenth-Century Germany.” In Religion and Culture
in the Renaissance and Reformation, ed. Steven Ozment. Kirksville, Mo.:
Sixteenth Century Journal Publishers, 1989, 99–119.
Muchembled, Robert. Une histoire du diable, XII–XX siècle. Paris: Seuil,
2000.
188 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Neumann, Almut. Verträge und Pakte mit dem Teufel: Antike und mittelalter-
liche Vorstellungen im “Malleus maleficarum.” St. Ingbert, Ger.: Röhrig Uni-
versitätsverlag, 1997.
Newman, Barbara. “Possessed by the Spirit: Devout Women, Demoniacs, and
the Apostolic Life in the Thirteenth Century.” Speculum 73 (1998): 733–70.
Nicholls, David. “The Devil in Renaissance France.” History Today 30 (No-
vember, 1980): 25–30.
Nischan, Bodo. “The Exorcism Controversy and Baptism in the Late Reforma-
tion.” Sixteenth Century Journal 18 (1987): 31–51.
Oldridge, Darren. The Devil in Early Modern England. Stroud, Eng.: Sutton, 2000.
Pagels, Elaine. The Origin of Satan. New York: Random House, 1995.
Pearl, Jonathan L. The Crime of Crimes: Demonology and Politics in France
1560–1620. Waterloo, Ont.: Wilfred Laurier University Press, 1999.
Petzoldt, Ruth, and Paul Neubauer, eds. Demons: Mediators between this World
and the Other: Essays on Demonic Beings from the Middle Ages to the Pre-
sent. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 1998.
Russell, Jeffrey Burton. The Devil: Perceptions of Evil from Antiquity to Prim-
itive Christianity. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1977.
———. Lucifer: The Devil in the Middle Ages. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University
Press, 1984.
———. Mephistopheles: The Devil in the Modern World. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell
University Press, 1986.
———. Satan: The Early Christian Tradition. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University
Press, 1981.
Spanos, Nicholas P., and Jack Gottlieb. “Demonic Possession, Mesmerism, and
Hysteria: A Social Psychological Perspective on Their Historical Interrela-
tions.” Journal of Abnormal Psychology 88 (1979): 527–46.
Stanford, Peter. The Devil: A Biography. London: Mandarin, 1996.
Veenstra, Jan R. “Stretching the Imagination: Demons Between Man’s Body
and Soul.” In Tradition and Innovation in an Era of Change, ed. Rudolf Sun-
trup and Jan R. Veenstra. Bern, Switz.: Peter Lang, 2001, 203–25.
Walker, Anita M., and Edmund H. Dickerman. “‘A Woman under the Influ-
ence’: A Case of Alleged Possession in Sixteenth-Century France.” Sixteenth
Century Journal 22 (1991): 535–54.
Walker, D. P. “Demonic Possession used as Propoganda in the Later 16th Cen-
tury.” In Scienze, credenze occulte, livelli di cultura: Convegno internazionale
di studi (Firenze, 26–30 giugno, 1980). Florence, Italy: Olschki, 1982, 237–48.
———. Unclean Spirits: Possession and Exorcism in France and England in the
Late Sixteenth and Early Seventeenth Centuries. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press, 1981.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 189

Walzel, Diana Lynn. “Sources of Medieval Demonology.” Rice University
Studies 60 (1974): 83–99.
VII. THEORISTS OF WITCHCRAFT,
TREATISES AND LITERATURE ON WITCHCRAFT
Anglo, Sydney. “Melancholia and Witchcraft: The Debate between Wier,
Bodin, and Scot.” In Folie et déraison à la Renaissance. Brussels: Université
de Bruxelles, 1976, 209–28.
Anglo, Sydney, ed. The Damned Art: Essays in the Literature of Witchcraft.
London: Routledge, 1977.
Bailey, Michael D. Battling Demons: Witchcraft, Heresy, and Reform in the
Late Middle Ages. University Park, Pa.: Pennsylvania State Universty Press,
2003.
Bonney, Françoise. “Autour de Jean Gerson: Opinions de théologiens sur les
superstitions et la sorcellerie au début de XVe siècle.” Le Moyen Age 77
(1971): 85–98.
Brauner, Sigrid. “Martin Luther on Witchcraft: A True Reformer?” In The Pol-
itics of Gender in Early Modern Europe, ed. Jean R. Brink, Allison P. Coud-
ert, and Maryanne C. Horowitz. Kirksville, Mo.: Sixteenth Century Journal
Publishers, 1989, 29–42.
Camerlynck, Elaine. “Féminité et sorcellerie chez les théoriciens de la dé-
monologie à la fin du Moyen Age: Etude du Malleus maleficarum.” Renais-
sance and Reformation n.s. 7 (1983): 13–25.
Caro Baroja, Julio. “Martín del Rio y sus Disquisiciones mágicas.” In Julio
Caro Baroja, El señor inquisidor y ostras vidas por oficio. Madrid: Alianza,
1968, 171–96.
Classen, Albrecht. “The End of the Middle Ages? Criticism of Sorcery and
Witchcraft Through Johann Weyer in his De Praestigiis Daemonum of
1583.” In Zauberer und Hexen in der Kultur des Mittelalters, ed. Danielle
Buschinger and Wolfgang Spiewok. Greifswald, Ger.: Reineke, 1994, 27–43.
Darst, David H. “Witchcraft in Spain: The Testimony of Martín de Castañega’s
Treatise on Superstition and Witchcraft (1529).” Proceedings of the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society 123 (1979): 298–322.
Estes, Leland L. “Reginald Scot and His Discoverie of Witchcraft: Religion and
Science in Opposition to the European Witch Craze.” Church History 52
(1983): 444–56.
Fürbeth, Frank. Johannes Hartlieb: Untersuchungen zu Leben und Werk.
Tübingen, Ger.: Niemeyer, 1992.
190 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Haustein, Jörg. Martin Luthers Stellung zur Zauber- und Hexenwesen.
Stuttgart, Ger.: Kohlhammer, 1990.
Henningsen, Gustav. “The Papers of Alonso de Salazar Frias: A Spanish Witch-
craft Polemic, 1610–14.” Temenos 5 (1969): 85–106.
Horowitz, Maryanne Cline. “Montaigne versus Bodin on Ancient Tales of De-
monology.” Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Western Society for
French History 16 (1989): 103–10.
Houdard, Sophie. Les sciences du diable: Quatre discours sur la sorcellerie
(XVe–XVIIe siècle). Paris: Editions du Cerf, 1992.
Jensen, Peter F. “Calvin and Witchcraft.” Reformed Theological Review 34
(1975): 76–86.
Lange, Ursula. Untersuchungen zu Bodins “Démonomanie.” Frankfurt:
Klostermann, 1970.
Lehmann, Hartmut, and Otto Ulbricht, eds. Vom Unfug des Hexen-Processes:
Gegner der Hexenverfolgungen von Johann Weyer bis Friedrich Spee. Wies-
baden, Ger.: Harrossowitz, 1992.
Leutenbacher, Siegfried. Hexerei- und Zaubereidelikt in der Literatur von 1450
bis 1550: Mit Hinweis auf der Praxis im Herzogtum Bayern. Berlin:
Schweitzer, 1972.
Midelfort, H. C. Erik. “Johannes Weyer and the Transformation of the Insanity
Defense.” In The German People and the Reformation, ed. R. Po-chia Hsia.
Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1988, 234–61.
Monter, E. William. “Inflation and Witchcraft: The Case of Jean Bodin.” In Ac-
tion and Conviction in Early Modern Europe: Essays in Memory of E. H.
Harbison, ed. Theodore K. Rabb and Jerrold E. Seigel. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press, 1969, 371–89.
Paravy, Pierrette. “A propos de la gènese médiévale des chasses aux sorcières:
Le traité de Claude Tholosan, juge dauphinois (vers. 1436).” In Mélanges de
l’Ecole Française de Rome: Moyen Age—Temps Modernes 91 (1979):
333–79.
Pearl, Jonathan L. “Bodin’s Advice to Judges in Witchcraft Cases.” Proceed-
ings of the Annual Meeting of the Western Society for French History 16
(1989): 95–102.
———. “Humanism and Satanism: Jean Bodin’s Contributions to the Witch-
craft Crisis.” Canadian Review of Sociology and Anthropology 19 (1982):
541–48.
Petersohn, Jürgen. “Konziliaristen und Hexen: Ein unbekannter Brief des In-
quisitors Heinrich Institoris an Papst Sixtus IV. aus dem Jahre 1484.”
Deutsches Archiv für Erforschung des Mittelalters 44 (1988): 120–60.
Rummel, Walter. “Friedrich von Spee und das Ende der kurtrierischen Hexen-
prozesse.” Jahrbuch für westdeutsche Landesgeschichte 15 (1989): 105–16.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 191

Segl, Peter. “Der Hexenhammer: Eine Quelle der Alltags- und Mentalitäts-
geschichte.” In Mentalität und Gesellschaft im Mittelalter: Gedenkschrift für
Ernst Werner, ed. Sabine Tanz. Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 1993, 127–54.
———. “’Malifice . . . non . . . sunt . . . heretice nuncupande’: Zu Heinrich
Kramers Widerlegung der Ansichten aliorum inquisitorum in viuersis reg-
nis hispanie.” In Papsttum, Kirche und Recht im Mittelalter: Festschrift für
Horst Fuhrmann, ed. Hubert Mordek. Tübingen, Ger.: Niemeyer, 1991,
369–82.
Segl, Peter, ed. Der Hexenhammer: Entstehung und Umfeld des “Malleus
Maleficarum” von 1487. Cologne: Böhlau, 1988.
Stephens, Walter. “Tasso and the Witches.” Annali d’Italianistica 12 (1994):
181–202.
———. “Witches who Steal Penises: Impotence and Illusion in Malleus malefi-
carum.” Journal of Medieval and Early Modern Studies 28 (1998): 495–529.
Taylor, Steven M. “Le procès de la sorcellerie chez Martin Le Franc: Le Cham-
pion des Dames, Livre IV.” In Zauberer und Hexen in der Kultur des Mitte-
lalters, ed. Danielle Buschinger and Wolfgang Spiewok. Greifswald, Ger.:
Reineke, 1994, 203–12.
Tschacher, Werner. Der Formicarius des Johannes Nider von 1437/38: Studien
zu den Anfängen der europäischen Hexenverfolgungen im Spätmittelalter.
Aachen, Ger.: Shaker, 2000.
Veenstra, Jan. Magic and Divination at the Courts of Burgundy and France:
Text and Context of Laurens Pignon’s “Contre les devineurs” (1411). Lei-
den: Brill, 1998.
West, Robert H. Reginald Scot and Renaissance Writings on Witchcraft.
Boston: Twayne, 1984.
Williams, Gerhild Scholz. Defining Dominion: The Discourses of Magic and
Witchcraft in Early Modern France and Germany. Ann Arbor, Mich.: Uni-
versity of Michigan Press, 1995.
Wilson, Eric. “Institoris at Innsbruck: Heinrich Institoris, the Summis Desider-
antes and the Brixen Witch-Trial of 1485.” In Popular Religion in Germany
and Central Europe, 1400–1800, ed. Bob Scribner and Trevor Johnson. New
York: St. Martin’s Press, 1996, 87–100, 239–45.
Wunder, Heide. “Friedrich von Spee und die verfolgten Frauen.” In Die poli-
tische Theologie Friedrich von Spees, ed. Doris Brockmann and Peter Eicher.
Munich: Fink, 1991, 119–32.
Zenz, Emil. “Cornelius Loos—ein Vorlaufer Friedrich von Spees im Kampf
gegen den Hexenwahn.” Kurtrierisches Jahrbuch 21 (1981): 146–53.
Ziegler, Wolfgang. Möglichkeiten der Kritik am Hexen- und Zauberwesen im
ausgehenden Mittelalter: Zeitgenössische Stimmen und ihre soziale
Zuhörigkeit. 2nd ed. Cologne: Böhlau, 1973.
192 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

VIII. WITCHCRAFT IN ART
Davidson, Jane P. “Great Black Goats and Evil Little Women: The Image of the
Witch in Sixteenth-Century German Art.” Journal of the Rocky Mountain
Medieval and Renaissance Society 6 (1985): 141–57.
———. The Witch in Northern European Art, 1470–1750. Freren, Ger.: Luca,
1987.
Hoak, Dale. “Art, Culture, and Mentality in Renaissance Society: The Meaning
of Hans Baldung Grien’s Bewitched Groom (1544).” Renaissance Quarterly
38 (1985): 488–510.
———. “Witch-Hunting and Women in the Art of the Renaissance.” History To-
day 31 (February, 1981): 22–26.
Hults, Linda C. “Baldung and the Witches of Freiburg: The Evidence of Im-
ages.” Journal of Interdisciplinary History 18 (1987–88): 249–76.
———. “Baldung’s Bewitched Groom Revisited: Artistic Temperament, Fan-
tasy and the ‘Dream of Reason.’” Sixteenth Century Journal 15 (1984):
259–79.
———. “Hans Baldung Grien’s ‘Weather Witches’ in Frankfurt.” Pantheon: In-
ternationale Zeitschrift für Kunst 40 (1982): 124–30.
Link, Luther. The Devil: The Archfiend in Art from the Sixth to the Sixteenth
Century. New York: Abrams, 1996.
Mesenzeva, Charmain. “Der Behexte Stallknecht des Hans Baldung Griens.”
Zeitschrift für Kunstgeschichte 44 (1981): 57–61.
Schade, Sigrid. Schadenzauber und die Magie des Körpers: Hexenbilder der
Frühen Neuzeit. Worms, Ger.: Werner’sche Verlagsgesellschaft, 1983.
Sullivan, Margaret A. “The Witches of Dürer and Hans Baldung Grien.” Re-
naissance Quarterly 53 (2000): 333–401.
Zika, Charles. “Dürer’s Witch, Riding Women, and Moral Order.” In Dürer and
his Culture, ed. Dagmar Eichberger and Charles Zika. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1998, 118–40, 225–28.
———. “Fears of Flying: Representations of Witchcraft and Sexuality in Early
Sixteenth-Century Germany.” Australian Journal of Art 8 (1989–90):
19–47.
———. “‘Magie’—‘Zauberei’—‘Hexerei’: Bildmedien und kultureller Wan-
del.” In Kulturelle Reformation: Sinnformationen im Umbruch, 1400–1600,
ed. Bernhard Jussen and Craig Koslofsky. Göttingen, Ger.: Vandenhoeck &
Ruprecht, 1999, 317–82.
———. Representing Sorcery and Witchcraft: Images and Cultural Meaning in
Europe, 1470–1590. In preparation.
———. “She-man: Visual Representations of Witchcraft and Sexuality in Six-
teenth Century Europe.” In Venus and Mars: Engendering Love and War in
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 193

Medieval and Early Modern Europe, ed. Andrew Lynch and Philippa Mad-
dern. Perth, Australia: University of Western Australia Press, 1992, 147–90.
IX. WITCHCRAFT IN THE MODERN WORLD
1. Magic and Superstition after the Witch-Hunts
Argyrou, Vassos. “Under a Spell: The Strategic Use of Magic in Greek Cypriot
Society.” American Ethnologist 20 (1993): 256–71.
Conrad, John L. “Bulgarian Magic Charms: Ritual, Form, and Content.” Slavic
and East European Journal 31 (1987): 548–62.
———. “Magic Charms and Healing Rituals in Contemporary Yugoslavia.”
Southeastern Europe 10 (1983): 99–120.
Davies, Owen. “Cunning-Folk in England and Wales during the Eighteenth and
Nineteenth Centuries.” Rural History 8 (1997): 91–107.
———. “Cunning-Folk in the Medical Market–Place during the Nineteenth
Century.” Medical History 43 (1999): 55–73.
———. “Hag-Riding in Nineteenth-Century West Country England and Modern
Newfoundland: An Examination of an Experience-Centred Witchcraft Tradi-
tion.” Folk Life 35 (1996–97): 36–53.
———. “Healing Charms in Use in England and Wales 1700–1950.” Folklore
107 (1996): 19–32.
———. “Methodism, the Clergy, and the Popular Belief in Witchcraft and
Magic.” History 82 (1997): 252–65.
———. “Newspapers and the Popular Belief in Witchcraft and Magic in the
Modern Period.” Journal of British Studies 37 (1998): 139–65.
———. “Urbanization and the Decline of Witchcraft: An Examination of Lon-
don.” Journal of Social History 30 (1997): 597–617.
———. Witchcraft, Magic and Culture, 1736–1951. Manchester, Eng.: Man-
chester University Press, 1999.
Denier, Marie-Claude. “Sorciers, présages et croyances magiques en Mayenne
aux XVIIIe et XIXe siècles.” Annales de Bretagne et de Pays de l’Ouest (An-
jou, Maine, Touraine) 97 (1990): 115–32.
Devlin, Judith. The Superstitious Mind: French Peasants and the Supernatural
in the Nineteenth Century. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1987.
Favret-Saada, Jeanne. Deadly Words: Witchcraft in the Bocage. Trans. Catherin
Cullen. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1980.
———. “Unbewitching as Therapy.” American Ethnologist 16 (1989): 40–56.
Gibbons, B. J. Spirituality and the Occult: From the Renaissance to the Mod-
ern Age. London: Routledge, 2001.
194 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Greenwood, Susan. Magic, Witchcraft and the Otherworld: An Anthropology.
Oxford: Berg, 2000.
Maple, Eric. Superstition and the Superstitious. London: W. H. Allen, 1971.
Owen, Alex. The Darkened Room: Women, Power and Spiritualism in Late
Nineteenth Century England. Philadephia: University of Pennsylvania Press,
1990.
Schier, Barbara. “Hexenwahn und Hexenverfolgung: Rezeption und politische
Zurichtung eines kulturwissenschaftlichen Themas im Dritten Reich.” Bay-
erische Jahrbuch für Volkskunde (1990): 43–115.
Schiffmann, Aldona Christina. “The Witch and the Crime: The Persecution of
Witches in Twentieh-Century Poland.” ARV: Scandinavian Yearbook of Folk-
lore 43 (1987): 147–65.
Schöck, Inge. Hexenglaube in der Gegenwart: Empirische Untersuchungen in
Südwestdeutschland. Tübingen, Ger.: Vereinigung für Volkskunde, 1978.
Sebald, Hans. Witch Children. Amherst, N.Y.: Prometheus, 1995.
———. Witchcraft: The Heritage of a Heresy. New York: Elsevier, 1978.
Soman, Alfred. “Sorcellerie, justice criminelle, et société dans la France mod-
erne.” Histoire, economie, et société 12 (1993): 177–218.
Traimond, Bernard. Le pouvoir de la maladie: Magie et politique dans les Lan-
des de Gascogne, 1750–1826. Bordeaux, France: Université de Bordeaux,
1988.
Worobec, Christine D. Possessed: Women, Witches, and Demons in Imperial
Russia. DeKalb, Ill.: Northern Illinois University Press, 2001.
———. “Witchcraft Beliefs and Practices in Prerevolutionary Russian and
Ukrainian Villages.” Russian Review 54 (1995): 165–87.
2. Modern Wicca, Neo-Paganism, and Satanism
Adler, Margot. Drawing Down the Moon: Witches, Druids, Goddess-Worshippers,
and Other Pagans in America Today. Rev. ed. Boston: Beacon, 1986.
Bovenschen, Silvia. “The Contemporary Witch, the Historical Witch, and the
Witch Myth: The Witch, Subject of the Appropriation of Nature and the Ob-
ject of the Domination of Nature.” New German Critique 15 (1978): 83–119.
Crowley, Vivianne. Wicca: The Old Religion in the New Millenium. Rev. ed.
London: Aquarian, 1996.
Culpepper, Emily Erwin. “Contemporary Goddess Theology: A Sympathetic
Critique.” In Shaping New Vision: Gender and Values in American Culture,
ed. Clarissa W. Atkinson, Constance H. Buchanan, and Margaret R. Miles.
Ann Arbor, Mich.: UMI Research Press, 1987, 51–71.
Eller, Cynthia. Living in the Lap of the Goddess: The Feminist Spirituality
Movement in America. Boston: Beacon, 1995.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 195

Gardner, Gerald B. Witchcraft Today. New York: Citadel, 1954.
Harmening, Dieter, ed. Hexen Heute: Magische Traditionen und neue Zutaten.
Würzburg, Ger.: Königshausen & Neumann, 1991.
Hutton, Ronald. The Triumph of the Moon: A History of Modern Pagan Witch-
craft. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1999.
Kelly, Aidan. A History of Modern Witchcraft, 1939–1964. St. Paul, Minn.:
Llewellyn, 1991.
King, Francis. Ritual Magic in England: 1887 to the Present Day. London:
Spearman, 1970.
La Fontaine, J. S. Speak of the Devil: Tales of Satanic Abuse in Contemporary
England. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1998.
Leek, Sibyl. The Complete Art of Witchcraft. New York: Penguin, 1971.
Lewis, James R., ed. Magical Religion and Modern Witchcraft. Albany, N.Y.:
State University of New York Press, 1996.
Luhrmann, T. M. Persuasions of the Witch’s Craft: Ritual Magic in Contempo-
rary England. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1989.
Pearson, Jeanne, Richard Roberts, and Geoffrey Samuel, eds. Nature Religions
Today: Paganism in the Modern World. Edinburgh: Edinburgh Unviersity
Press, 1998.
Salomonsen, Jane. Enchanted Feminism: Ritual, Gender and Divinity among
the Reclaiming Witches of San Francisco. London: Routledge, 2002.
Starhawk. The Spiral Dance: A Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Great
Goddess. 20th anniversary ed. San Francisco: Harper, 1999.
Truzzi, Marcello. “The Occult Revival as Popular Culture: Some Random Ob-
servations of the Old and Nouveau Witch.” Sociological Quarterly 13
(1972): 16–36.
Valiente, Doreen. The Rebirth of Witchcraft. Custer, Wash.: Phoenix Publish-
ing, 1989.
X. NON-EUROPEAN WITCHCRAFT,
ANTHROPOLOGICAL AND COMPARATIVE STUDIES
Bongmba, Elias Kifon. African Witchcraft and Otherness: A Philosophical and
Theological Critique of Intersubjective Relations. Albany, N.Y.: State Uni-
versity Press of New York, 2001.
Crais, Clifton. Magic, State Power and the Political Imagination in South
Africa. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002.
Crawford, J. R. Witchcraft and Sorcery in Rhodesia. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1967.
196 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

Debrunner, Hans W. Witchcraft in Ghana: A Study of the Belief in Destructive
Witches and Its Effect on the Akan Tribes. 2nd ed. Accra, Ghana: Presbyter-
ian Book Depot, 1961.
Douglas, Mary. “Witch Beliefs in Central Africa.” Africa 37 (1967): 72–80.
Douglas, Mary, ed. Witchcraft Confessions and Accusations. London: Tavis-
tock, 1970.
Evans-Pritchard, E. E. Witchcraft, Oracles and Magic among the Azande. 2nd
ed. Oxford: Clarendon, 1950.
Fisiy, C. F., and P. Geschiere. “Judges and Witches, or How Is the State to Deal
with Witchcraft? Examples from Southeastern Cameroon.” Cahiers d’études
africaines 118 (1990): 135–56.
———. “Sorcery, Witchcraft, and Accumulation—Regional Variation in South
West Cameroon.” Critique of Anthropology 11 (1991): 251–78.
Fortune, Reo Franklin. Sorcerers of Dobu: The Social Anthropology of the
Dobu Islanders of the Western Pacific. London: Routledge, 1963.
Geschiere, Peter. The Modernity of Witchcraft: Politics and the Occult in Post-
colonial Africa. Trans. Peter Geschiere and Janet Rothman. Charlottesville,
Va.: University of Virginia Press, 1997.
Hammond-Tooke, W. D. “The Cape Nguni Witch Familiar as a Mediatory Con-
struct.” Man n.s. 9 (1974): 128–36.
———. “Urbanization and the Interpretation of Misfortune: A Quantitative
Analysis.” Africa 40 (1970): 25–39.
Harris, Grace. “Possession ‘Hysteria’ in a Kenya Tribe.” American Anthropol-
ogist 59 (1957): 1046–66.
Harwood, Alan. Witchcraft, Sorcery and Social Categories among the Safwa.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1970.
Jackson, Michael D. “Structure and Event: Witchcraft Confession among the
Kuranko.” Man 10 (1975): 387–403.
Kennedy, John G. “Psychological and Social Explanations of Witchcraft.” Man
2 (1967): 216–25.
Kluckhorn, Clyde. Navaho Witchcraft. 1944. Reprint, Boston: Beacon Press,
1967.
Kuhn, Philip A. Soulstealers: The Chinese Sorcery Scare of 1768. Cambridge,
Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1990.
Lehmann, Arthur C., and James E. Myers, eds. Magic, Witchcraft, and Reli-
gion: An Anthropological Study of the Supernatural. Palo Alto, Calif.: May-
field, 1985.
Lewis, I. M. Ecstatic Religion: An Anthropological Study of Spirit Possession
and Shamanism. Harmondsworth, Eng.: Penguin, 1971.
———. “Spirit Possession and Deprivation Cults.” Man 1 (1966): 307–29.
Mair, Lucy. Witchcraft. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1969.
BIBLIOGRAPHY • 197

Marwick, Max. G. “Another Modern Anti-Witchcraft Movement in East Cen-
tral Africa.” Africa 20 (1950): 100–12.
———. “The Continuance of Witchcraft Beliefs.” In Africa in Transition, ed.
Prudence Smith. London: Reinhardt, 1958, 106–14.
———. “The Social Context of Cewâ Witch Beliefs.” Africa 22 (1952): 120–22.
———. Sorcery in Its Social Setting: A Study of the Northern Rhodesian Cewâ.
Manchester, Eng.: Manchester University Press, 1965.
———. “The Study of Witchcraft.” In The Craft of Social Anthropology, ed. A.
L. Epstein. London: Tavistock, 1967, 231–44.
———. “Witchcraft as a Social Strain-Gauge.” Australian Journal of Science 26
(1964): 263–68.
Marwick, Max G., ed. Witchcraft and Sorcery: Selected Readings. 2nd ed. New
York: Penguin, 1982.
Middleton, John, and E. H. Winter, eds. Witchcraft and Sorcery in East Africa.
New York: Praeger, 1963.
Nadel, S. F. “Witchcraft in Four African Societies.” American Anthropologist
54 (1952): 18–29.
Niehus, Isak A. Witchcraft, Power and Politics: Exploring the Occult in the
South African Lowveld. Cape Town, S.A.: Sterling, 2001.
Newall, Venetia, ed. The Witch Figure: Folklore Essays by a Group of Scholars
in England Honouring the 75th Birthday of Katharine M. Briggs. London:
Routledge, 1973.
Obeyesekere, Gananath. “Sorcery, Premeditated Murder, and the Canalization
of Agression in Sri Lanka.” Ethnography 14 (1975): 1–23.
Parrinder, Geoffrey. Witchcraft: European and African. New York: Barnes and
Noble, 1963.
Reynolds, Barrie. Magic, Divination, and Witchcraft among the Barotse of
Northern Rhodesia. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press, 1963.
Rose, B. W. “African and European Magic: A First Comparative Study of Be-
liefs and Practices.” African Studies 23 (1964): 1–10.
Schapera, Isacc. “Sorcery and Witchcraft in Bechuanaland.” African Affairs 51
(1952): 41–52.
Turner, Victor W. “Witchcraft and Sorcery: Taxonomy versus Dynamics.”
Africa 34 (1964): 314–24.
Walker, Deward E., ed. Witchcraft and Sorcery of the American Native Peoples.
Moscow, Idaho: University of Idaho Press, 1989.
Watson, C. W., and Roy Ellen, eds. Understanding Witchcraft and Sorcery in
Southeast Asia. Honolulu, Hawaii: University of Hawaii Press, 1993.
Willis, R. G. “Kamcape: An Anti-Sorcery Movement in South-West Tanzania.”
Africa 38 (1968): 1–15.
Wyllie, R. W. “Introspective Witchcraft among the Effutu of Southern Ghana.”
Man n.s. 8 (1973): 74–79.
198 • BIBLIOGRAPHY

About the Author
199
Michael D. Bailey received his Ph.D. from Northwestern University,
where he specialized in medieval European history. He also studied me-
dieval history at the University of Basel and the Ludwig-Maxmilians-
Universität in Munich. He has held academic positions at Bethany Col-
lege, Kansas, at the University of Cincinnati, at the Medieval Institute
of the University of Notre Dame, and at Saint Louis University. He is
currently an assistant professor of history at Iowa State University and
a Mellon Fellow in the Humanities at the University of Pennsylvania.
His principal research interests focus on the history of magic, witch-
craft, and superstition in Europe. Among his publications are Battling
Demons: Witchcraft, Heresy, and Reform in the Late Middle Ages, and
several articles on magic and witchcraft in the medieval period.
