1
Heptameron:
or,
Magical Elements
of
Peter de Abano, philosopher
In the former book, which is the fourth book of Agrippa, it is sufficiently spoken concern-
ing Magical Ceremonies, and Initiations.
But because he seemeth to have written to the learned, and well-experienced in this art;
because he doth not specially treat of the Ceremonies, but rather speaketh of them in gen-
eral, it was therefore thought good to adde hereunto the Magical Elements of Peter de
Abano: that those who are hitherto ignorant, and have not tasted of Magical Supersti-
tions, may have them in readiness, how they may exercise themselves therein. For we see
in this book, as it were a certain introduion of Magical vanity; and, as if they were in
present exercise, they may behold the distin funions of spirits, how they may be drawn
to discourse and communication; what is to be done every day, and every hour; and how
they shall be read, as if they were described sillable by sillable.
In brief, in this book are kept the principles of Magical conveyances. But because the
greatest power is attributed to the Circles; (For they are certain fortresses to defend the
operators safe from the evil Spirits;) In the first place we will treat concerning the compo-
sition of a Circle.
Of the Circle, and the Composition Thereof.
The form of Circles is not alwaies one and the same; but useth to be changed, accord-
ing to the order of the Spirits that are to be called, their places, times, daies and hours. For
in making a Circle, it ought to be considered in what time of the year, what day, and what
hour, that you make the Circle; what Spirits you would call, to what Star and Region they
do belong, and what funions they have. Therefore let there be made three Circles of the
latitude of nine foot, and let them be distant one from another a hands breadth; and in the
middle Circle, first, write the name of the hour wherein you do the work. In the second
place, Write the name of the Angel of the hour. In the third place, The Sigil of the Angel
of the hour. Fourthly, The name of the Angel that ruleth that day wherein you do the
work, and the names of his ministers. In the fifth place, The name of the present time.
Sixthly, The name of the Spirits ruling in that part of time, and their Presidents. Sev-
enthly, The name of the head of the Signe ruling in that part of time wherein you work.
Eighthly, The name of the earth, according to that part of time wherein you work. Nin-
thly, and for the compleating of the middle Circle, Write the name of the Sun and of the
Moon, according to the said rule of time; for as the time is changed, so the names are to be
altered. And in the outermost Circle, let there be drawn in the four Angles, the names of
the presidential Angels of the Air, that day wherein you would do this work; to wit, the
name of the King and his three Ministers. Without the Circle, in four Angles, let Pen-

Heptameron
2
tagones be made. In the inner Circle let there be written four divine names with crosses
interposed in the middle of the Circle; to wit, towards the East let there be written Alpha,
and towards the West let there be written Omega; and let a cross divide the middle of the
Circle. When the Circle is thus finished, according to the rule now before written, you
shall proceed.
Of the Names of the Hours, and the Angels ruling them.
It is also to be known, that the Angels do rule the hours in a successive order, according
to the course of the heavens, and Planets unto which they are subje; so that that Spirit
which governeth the day, ruleth also the first hour of the day; the second from this gov-
erneth the second hour; the third; the third hour, and so consequentkly: and when seven
Planets and hours have made their revolution, it returneth again to the first which ruleth
the day. Therefore we shall first speak of the names of the hours.
Of the names of the Angels and their Sigils, it shall be spoken in their proper places.
Now let us take a view of the names of the times. A year therefore is fourfold, and is
divided into the Spring, Summer, Harvest and Winter; the names whereof are these.
Hours of the day. 	Hours of the night.
1. Yayn. 	1. Beron.
2. Janor. 	2. Barol.
3. Nasnia. 	3. Thanu.
4. Salla. 	4. Athir.
5. Sadedali. 	5. Mathon.
6. Thamur. 	6. Rana.
7. Ourer. 	7. Netos.
8. Thamic. 	8. Tafrac.
9. Neron. 	9. Sassur.
10. Jayon. 	10. Aglo.
11. Abai. 	11. Calerna.
12. Natalon. 	12. Salam.
The Spring. 	Talvi.
The Summer. 	Casmaran.
Autumne. 	Ardarael.
Winter. 	Farlas.

Heptameron
3
the angels of the spring.
Caratasa.
Core.
Amatiel.
Commissoros.
the head of the signe of the spring.
Spugliguel.
the name of the earth in the spring.
Amadai.
the names of the sun and moon in the spring.
the angels of the summer.
Gargatel.
Tariel.
Gaviel.
the head of the signe of the summer.
Tubiel.
the name of the earth in summer.
Festativi.
the names of the sun and moon in summer.
the angels of autumne.
Tarquam.
Guabarel.
the head of the signe of autumne.
Tarquaret.
the name of the earth in autumne.
Rabianara.
The Sun. 	The Moon.
Abraym. 	Agusita.
The Sun. 	The Moon.
Athemay. 	Armatus.

Heptameron
4
the names of the sun and moon in autumne.
the angels of winter.
Amabael.
Ctarari.
the head of the signe of winter.
Altarib.
the name of the earth in winter.
Geremiah.
the names of the sun and moon in winter.
The Consecrations and Benediions: and first of the Benediion
of the Circle.
When the Circle is ritely perfeed, sprinkle the same with holy or purging water, and
say, Thou shalt purge me with hysop, (O Lord,) and I shall be clean: Thou shalt wash me, and I
shall be whiter then snow.
The Benediion of perfumes.
The God of Abraham, God of Isaac, God of Jacob, bless here the creatures of these kindes, that
they may fill up the power and vertue of their odours; so that neither the enemy, nor any false
imagination, may be able to enter into them: through our Lord Jesus Christ, &c. Then let them
be sprinkled with holy water.
The Exorcisme of the fire upon which the perfumes are to be put.
The fire which is to be used for suffumigations, is to be in a new vessel of earth or iron;
and let it be exorcised after this manner. I exorcise thee, O thou creature of fire, by him by
whom all things are made, that forthwith thou cast away every phantasme from thee, that it shall
not be able to do any hurt in any thing. Then say, Bless, O Lord, this creature of fire, and sani-
fie it, that it may be blessed to set forth the praise of thy holy name, that no hurt may come to the
Exorcisers or Speators: through our Lord Jesus Christ, &c.
The Sun. 	The Moon.
Abragini. 	Matasignais.
The Sun. 	The Moon.
Commutaff. 	Affaterim.

Heptameron
5
Of the Garment and Pentacle.
Let it be a Priests Garment, if it can be had, let it be of linen, and clean. Then take this
Pentacle made in the day and hour of Mercury, the Moon increasing, written in parchment
made of a kids skin. But first let there be said over it the Mass of the holy Ghost, and let it
be sprinkled with water of baptism.
An Oration to be said, when the Vesture is put on.
Ancor, Amacor, Amides, Theodonias, Anitor, by the merits of thy Angel, O Lord, I will put on
the Garments of Salvation, that this which I desire I may bring to effe: through thee the most
holy Adonay, whose kingdom endureth for ever and ever. Amen.
Of the manner of working.
Let the Moon be increasing and equal, if it may then be done, and let her not be com-
bust.
The Operator ought to be clean and purified by the space of nine daies before the
beginning of the work, and to be confessed, and receive the holy Communion. Let him
have ready the perfume appropriated to the day wherein he would perform the work. He
ought also to have holy water from a Priest, and a new earthen vessel with fire, a Vesture
and a Pentacle; and let all these things be rightly and duly consecrated and prepared. Let
one of the servants carry the earthen vessel full of fire, and the perfumes, and let another
bear the book, another the Garment and Pentacle, and let the master carry the Sword;

Heptameron
6
over which there must be said one mass of the Holy Ghost; and on the middle of the
Sword, let there be written this name Agla +, and on the other side thereof, this name +
On +. And as he goeth to the consecrated place, let him continually read Letanies, the ser-
vants answering. And when he cometh to the place where he will ere the Circle, let him
draw the lines of the Circle, as we have before taught: and after he hath made it, let him
sprinkle the Circle with holy water, saying, Asperges me Domine, &c. [Wash me O Lord,
&c.]
The Master therefore ought to be purified with fasting, chastity, and abstinency from
all luxury the space of three whole dayes before the day of the operation. And on the day
that he would do the work, being clothed with pure garments, and furnished with Penta-
cles, Perfumes, and other things necessary hereunto, let him enter the Circle, and call the
Angels from the four parts of the world, which do govern the seven Planets the seven
dayes of the week, Colours and Metals; whose name you shall see in their places. And with
bended knees invocating the said Angels particularly, let him say, O Angels supradii, estote
adjutores meæ petitioni, & in adjutorium mihi, in meis rebus & petitionibus.
Then let him call the Angels from the four parts of the world, that ruke the Air the
same day wherein he doth the work or experiment. And having implored specially all the
Names and Spirits written in the Circle, let him say, O vos omnes, adjuro atque contestor per
sedem Adonay, per Hagios, ò Theos, Ischyros, Athanatos, Paracletos, Alpha & Omega, & per hæc
tria nomina secreta, Agla, On, Tetragrammaton, quòd hodie debeatis adimplere quod cupio.
These things being performed, let him read the Conjuration assigned for the day
wherein he maketh the experiments, as we have before spoken; but if they shall be partina-
cious and refraory, and will not yield themselves obedient, neither to the Conjuration
assigned to the day, nor to the prayers before made, then use the Conjurations and Exor-
cismes following.
An Exorcisme of the Spirits of the Air.
Nos fai ad imaginem Dei, & ejus fai voluntate, per potentissimum & corroboratum
nomen Dei El, forte & admirabile vos exorcizamus (here he shall name the Spirits he would
have appear, of what order soever they be) & imperamus per eum qui dixit, & faum est, &
per omnia nomina Dei, & per nomen Adonay, El, Elohim, Elohe, Zebaoth, Elion, Escerchie,
Jah, Tetragrammaton, Sadai, Dominus Deus, excelsus, exorcizamus vos, atque potenter impera-
mus, ut appareatis statim nobis hic juxta Circulum in pulchra forma, videlicet humana, & sine
deformitate & tortuositate aliqua. Venite vos omnes tales, quia vobis imperamus, per nomen Y &
V quod Adam audivit, & locutus est: & per nomen Dei Agla, quod Loth audivit, & faus salvus
cum sua familia: & per nomen Joth, quod Jacob audivit ab Angelo secum luantes, & liberatus
est de manu fratris sui Esau: and by the name Anephexeton, quot Aaron audivit, & loquens, &
sapiens faus est: & per nomen Zebaoth, quod Moses nominavit, & omnia flumina & paludes
de terra Ægypti, versæ fuerunt in sanguinem: & per nomen Ecerchie Oriston, quod Moses nomi-
navit, & omnes flu vis ebullierunt ranas, & ascenderunt in domos Ægyptiorum, omnia
destruentes: & per nomen Elion, quod Moses nominavit, & fuit grando talis, qualis non fuit ab
initio mundi: & per nomen Adonay, quod Moses nominavit, & fuerunt locusta, & apparuerunt
super terram Ægyptiorum, & comederunt quæ residua erant grandint: & per nomen Schemes
amathia, quod Joshua vocavit, & remoratus est Sol cursum: & per nomen Alpha & Omega, quod
Daniel nominavit, & destruxit Beel, & Draconem interferit: & in nomine Emmanuel, quod
tres pueri, Sidrach, Misach & Abednago, in camino ignis ardentis, cantaverunt, & liberati

Heptameron
7
fuerunt: & per nomen Hagios, & sedem Adonay, & per ò Theos, Iscytos, Athanatos, Paracletus;
& per hæc tria secreta nomina, Agla, On, Tetragrammaton, adjuro, contestor, & per hæc nomina,
& per alia nomina Domini nostri Dei Omnipotentis, vivi & veri, vos qui vestra culpa de Coelis
ejei fuistis usque ad infernum locum, exorcizamus, & viriliter imperamus, per eum qui dixit, &
faum est, cui omnes obediunt creaturæ, & per illud tremendum Dei judicium: & per mare
omnibus incertum, vitreum, quod est amte conspeum divinæ majestatis gradiens, & potestiale:
& per quatuor divina animalia T. aniè sedem divinæ majesta is gradientia, & oculos antè &
retrò habentia: & per ignem ante ejus thronum circumstantem: & per sanos Angelos Cælorum,
T. & per eam quæ Ecclesia Dei nominatur: & per summam sapientiam Omnipotentis Dei viri-
liter exorcizamus, ut nobis hic ante Circulum appareatis, ut faciendam nostram voluntatem, in
omnibus prout placuerit nobis: per sedem Baldachiæ, & per hoc nomen Primeumaton, quod
Moses nominavit, & in cavernis abyssi fuerunt profundati vel absorpti, Datan, Corah &
Abiron: & in virtute istius nominis Primeumaton, tota Coeli militia compellente, maledicimus
vos, privamus vos omni officio, loco & gaudio vestro, esque in profundum abyssi, & usque ad
ultimum diem judicii vos ponimus, & relegamus in ignem æternum, & in stagnum ignis & sul-
phuris, nisi statim appareatis hic coram nobis, inte Circulum, ad faciendum voluntatem nostram.
In omnibus venite per hæc nomina, Adonay Zebaoth, Adonay, Amioram. Venite, venite, imperat
vobis Adonay, Saday, Rex regum potentissimus & tremendissimus, cujus vires nulla subterfugere
potest creatura vobis pertinacissimis futuris nisi obedieritis, & appareatis ante hunc Circulum,
affabiles subito, tandem ruina flebilis miserabilisque, & ignis perpetuum inextinguibilis vos
manet. Venite ergo in nomine Adonay Zebaoth, Adonay Amioram: venite, venite, quid tardatis?
festinate imperat vobis Adonay, Saday, Rex regum, El, Aty, Titeip, Azia, Hyn, Jen, Minosel,
Achadan: Vay, Vaa, Ey, Haa, Eye, Exe, à, El, El, El, à, Hy, Hau, Hau, Hau, Va, Va, Va, Va.
A Prayer to God, to be said in the four parts of the world, in the
Circle.
A Morule, Taneha, Latisten, Rabur, Taneha, Latisten. Escha, Aladia, Alpha & Omega,
Leyste, Oriston, Adonay: O my most merciful heavenly Father, have mercy upon me, although a
sinner; make appear the arm of thy power in me this day (although thy unworthy child) against
these obstinate and pernicious Spirits, that I by thy will may be made a contemplator of thy
divine works, and may be illustrated with all wisdom, and alwaies worship and glorifie thy
name. I humbly implore and beseech thee, that these Spirits which I call by thy judgement, may be
bound and constrained to come, and give true and perfe answers to those things which I shall
ask them, and that they may declare and shew unto us those things which by me or us shall be
commanded them, not hurting any creature, neither injuring nor terrifying me or my fellows, nor
hurting any other creature, and affrighting no man; but let them be obedient to my requests, in all
these things which I command them. Then let him stand in the middle of the Circle, and
hold his hand towards the Pentacle, and say, Per Pentaculum Salomonis advocavi, dent mihi
responsum verum.
Then let him say, Beralanensis, Baldachiensis, Paumachiæ & Apologiæ sedes, per Reges
potestaiesiá magnanimas, ac principes præpotentes, genio Liachidæ, ministri tartareæ sedes: Pri-
mac, hic princeps sedis Apologiæ nona cohorte: Ego vos invoco, & invocando vos conjure, atque
supernæ Majestatis munitus virtute, potenter impero, per eum qui dixit, & faum est, & cui
obediunt omnes creaturæ: & per hoc nomen ineffabile, Tetragrammaton xnxv Jehovah, in quo est
plasmatum omne seculum, quo audito elementa corruunt, aër concutitur, mare retrograditur,

Heptameron
8
ignis extinguitur, tera tremit, omnesque exercitus Coelestium, Terrestrium, & Infernorum trem-
unt, turbantur & corruunt: quatenus citò & sine mora & omni occasione remota, ab universis
mundi partibus veniatis, & rationabiliter de omnibus quæcunque interrogavero, respondeatis
vos, & veniatis pacifice, visibiles, & affabiles: nunc & sine mora manifestantes quod cupimus:
conjurati per nomen æterni vivi & veri Dei Helioren, & mandata nostra per ficientes, persis-
tentes semper usque ad finem, & intentionem meam, visibiles nobis, & affabiles, clara voce nobis,
intelligibile, & sine omni ambiguitate.
Visions and Apparitions.
Quibus ritè perais, apparebunt infinitæ visiones, & phantasmata pulsantia organa &
omnis generis instrumenta musica, idque sit à spiritibus, ut terrore compulsi socii abeant à Cir-
culo, quia nihil adversus migistrum possunt. Post hæc videbis infinitos sagittarios cum infinita
multitudine bestiarum horribilem: quæ ita se componunt, ac si vellent devorare socios: & tamen
nil timeant. Tunc Sacerdos sive Magister, adhibent manum Pentaculo, dicat: Fugiat hinc iniqui-
tas vestra, virtute vexilli Dei.
Et tunc Spiritus obedire migistro coguntur, & socii nil amilius videbunt.
Then let the Exorcist say, stretching out his hand to the Pentacle, Ecce Pentaculum
Salomonis, quod ante vestram adduxi præsentiam: ecce personam exorcizatoris on medio Exor-
cismi, qui est optimà à Deo munitus, intrepidus, providus, qui viribus potens vos exorcizando
invocavit & vocat. Venite ergo cum festinotione in virtute nominum istorum, Aye, Saraye, Aye,
Saraye, Aye Saraye, ne differatis venire, per nomina æterna Dei vivi & veri Eloy, Archima,
Rabur: & per hoc præsens Pentaculum, quod super vos potenter imperat: & per virutem coeles-
tium Spirituum dominorum vestrorum: & per personam exorcizatoris, conjurati, festinati venire
& obedire præceptori vestro, qui vocatur Oinomos. Hisperais, sibiles in quatuor angulis
mundi. Et videbis immediate magnos motus: & cum videris, dicas: Quid tardatis? quid
moramini? quid fais? præparate vos & obedite præceptori vesto, in nomine Domini Bathat, vel
Vachat super Abrac ruens, super veniens, Abeor super Aberer.
Tunc immediatè venient in sua forma propria. Et quando videbis eos juxta Circulum, ostende
illis Pentaculum coopertum syndone sacro, & discooperiatur, & dicat: Ecce conclusionem vestram,
nolite fieri inobedientes. Et subito videbis eos in pacifica forma: & dicent tibi, Pete quid vis, quia
nos sumus parati complere omnia mandata tua, quia dominus ad hæc nos subjugavit. Cum autem
apparuerint Spiritus, tunc dicas, Bene veneritis Spiritus, vel reges nobilissimi, quia vos vocavi
per illum cui omne genufleitur, coelestium, terrestrium & infernorum: cujus in manu omnia
regna regum sunt, nec est qui suæ contrarius esse possit Majestati. Quatenus constringo vos, ut hic
ante circulum visibes, affabiles permanetis, tamdiu tamque constantes, nec sint licentia mea rece-
datis, donec meam sine fallacia aliqua & veredicè perficiatis voluntatem, per potentiæ illius virt-
utem, qui mare posuit terminum suum, quem præterire non potest, & lege illius potentiæ, non
periransit fines suos, Dei scilicet altissimi, regis, domini, qui cuna creavit, Amen.
Then command what you will, and it shall be done. Afterwards license them thus:
+ In nomine Patris, + Filii, & + Spiritus sani, ite in pace ad loca vestra: & pax sit inter nos
& vos, parati sitis venire vocati.
These are the things which Peter de Abano hath spoken concerning Magical Elements.
But that you may the better know the manner of composing a Circle, I will set down
one Scheme; so that if any one would make a Circle in Spring-time for the first hour of
Lords day, it must be in the same manner as is the figure following.

Heptameron
9
The figure of a Circle for the first hour of the Lords day, in
Spring-time.
It remaineth now, That we explain the week, the several dayes thereof: and first of the
Lords day.

Heptameron
10
Considerations of the Lords day
The Angel of the Lords day, his Sigil, Planet, the Signe of the Planet, and the name of
the fourth heaven.
the angels of the lords day.
Michael, Dardiel, Huratapal.
the angels of the air ruling on the lords day.
Varcan, King.
his ministers.
Tus, Andas, Cynabal.
the winde which the angels of the air abovesaid are under.
The North-winde.
the angel of the fourth heaven, ruling on the lords day, which ought
to be called from the four parts of the world.
at the east.
Samael. Baciel. Atel. Gabriel. Vionairaba.
at the west.
Anael. Pabel. Ustael. Burchat. Suceratos. Capabili.
at the north.
Aiel. Aniel, vel Aquiel. Masgabriel. Sapiel. Matuyel.
at the south.
Haludiel. Machasiel. Charsiel. Uriel. Naromiel.
the perfume of the lords day.
Red Wheat.
The Conjuration of the Lords day.
Conjuro & confirmo super vos Angeli fortes Dei, & sani, in nomine Adonay, Eye, Eye, Eye,
qui est ille, qui fuit, est & erit, Eye, Abraye: & in nomine Saday, Cados, Cados, Cados, alie sen-
dentis super Cherubin, & per nomen magnum ipsius Dei fortis & potentis, exaltatique super

Heptameron
11
omnes coelos, Eye, Saraye, plasmatoris seculorum, qui creavit mundum, coelum, terram, mare, &
omnia quæ in eis sunt in primo die, & sigillavit ea sano nomine suo Phaa: & per nomina san-
orum Angelorum, qui dominantur in quarto exercitu, & serviunt coram potentissimo Salamia,
Angelo magno & honorato: & per nomen stellæ, quæ est Sol, & per signum, & per immensum
nomen Dei vivi, & per nomina omnia prædia, conjuro te Michael angele magne, qui es præ-
positus Diei Dominicæ: & per nomen Adona, Dei Israel, qui creavit mundum & quicquid in eo
est, quod pro melabores, & ad moleas omnem meam petitionem, juxta meum velle & votum
meum, in negotio & causa mea. And here thou shalt declare thy cause and business, and for
what thing thou makest this Conjuration.
The Spirits of the Air of the Lords day, are under the North-winde; their nature is to
procure Gold, Gemmes, Carbuncles, Riches; to cause one to obtain favour and benevo-
lence; to dissolve the enmities of men; to raise men to honors; to carry or take away infir-
mities. But in what manner they appear, it's spoken already in the former book of Magical
Ceremonies.
Considerations of Monday.
The Angel of Munday, his Sigil, Planet, the Signe of the Planet, and name of the first
heaven.
the angels of munday.
Gabriel, Michael, Samael.
the angels of the air ruling on munday.
Arcan, King.
his ministers.
Bilet, Missabu, Abuzaha.
the winde which the said angels of the air are subject to.
The West-winde.
the angels of the first heaven, ruling on munday, which ought to be
called from the four parts of the world.
from the east.
Gabriel. Gabrael. Madiel. Deamiel. Janael.
from the west.
Sachiel. Zaniel. Habaiel. Bachanael. Corabael.

Heptameron
12
from the north.
Mael. Vuael. Valnum. Baliel. Balay. Humastrau.
from the south.
Curaniel. Dabriel. Darquiel. Hanun. Anayl. Vetuel.
the perfume of munday.
Aloes.
The Conjuration of Munday.
Conjuro & confirmo super vos Angeli fortes & boni, in nomine Adonay, Adonay, Adonay, Eie,
Eie, Eie, Cados, Cados, Cados, Achim, Achim, Ja, Ja, Fortis, Ja, qui apparuis monte Sinai, cum
glorificatione regis Adonay, Saday, Zebaoth, Anathay, Ya, Ya, Ya, Marinata, Abim, Jeia, qui
maria creavit stagna & omnes aquas in secundo die, quasdam super coelos, & quosdam in terra.
Sigillavit mare in alio nomine suo, & terminum, quam sibi posuit, non præter b t: & per nomina
Angelorum, qui dominantur in primo exercitu, qui serviunt Orphaniel Angelo magno, precioso
& honorato: & per nomen Stellæ, quæ est Luna: & per nomina prædia, super te conjuro, scilicet
Gabriel, qui es præpositus diei. Lunæ secundo quòd pro me labores & adimpleas, &c. As in the
Conjuration of Sunday.
The Spirits of the Air of Munday, are subje to the West-winde, which is the winde of
the Moon: their nature is to give silver; to convey things from place to place; to make
horses swift, and to disclose the secrets of persons both present and future: but in what
manner they appear, you may see in the former book.
Considerations of Tuesday.
The Angel of Tuesday, his sigil, his Planet, the Signe governing that Planet, and the
name of the fifth heaven.
the angels of tuesday.
Samael. Satael. Amabiel.
the angels of the air ruling on tuesday.
Samax, King.
his ministers.
Carmax, Ismoli, Paffran.
the winde to which the said angels are subject.
The East-winde.

Heptameron
13
the angels of the fifth heaven ruling on tuesday, which ought to be
called from the four parts of the world.
at the east.
Friagne. Guael. Damael. Calzas. Arragon.
at the west.
Lama. Astagna. Lobquin. Soncas. Jazel. Isiael. Irel.
at the north.
Rahumel. Hyniel. Rayel. Seraphiel. Mathiel. Fraciel.
at the south.
Sacriel. Janiel. Galdel. Osael. Vianuel. Zaliel.
the perfume of tuesday.
Pepper.
The Conjuration of Tuesday.
Conjuro & confirmo super vos, Angeli fortes & sani, per nomen Ya, Ya, Ya, He, He, He, Va,
Hy, Hy, Ha, Ha, Ha, Va, Va, Va, An, An, An, Aie, Aie, Aie, El, Ay, Elibra, Eloim, Eloim: &
per nomina ipsius alti Dei, qui secit aquam aridam apparere, & vocavit terram, & produxit
arbores, & herbas de ea, & sigillavit super eam cum precioso, honorato, metuendo & sano nom-
ine suo: & per nomen angelorum dominantium in quinto exercitu, qui serviunt Acimoy Angelo
magno, forti, potenti, & honorato: & per nomen Stellæ, quæ est Mars: & per nomina prædia
conjuro super te Samael, Angele magne, qui præpositus es diei Martis: & per nomina Adonay,
Dei vivi & veri, quod pro me labores, & adimpleas, &c. As in the Conjuration of Sunday.
The Spirits of the Air of Tuesday are under the East-winde: their nature is to cause
wars, mortality, death and combustions; and to give two thousand Souldiers at a time; to
bring death, infirmities or health. The manner of their appearing you may see in the
former book.
Considerations of Wednesday.
The Angel of Wednesday, his Sigil, Planet, the Signe governing that Planet, and the name
of the second heaven.
the angels of wednesday.
Raphael. Miel. Seraphiel.

Heptameron
14
the angels of the air ruling on wednesday.
Mediat, or Modiat, King.
ministers.
Suquinos, Sallales.
the winde to which the said angels of the air are subject.
The Southwest-winde.
the angels of the second heaven govern wednesday, which ought to be
called from the four parts of the world.
at the east.
Mathlai. Tarmiel. Baraborat.
at the west.
Jeresous. Mitraton.
at the north.
Thiel. Rael. Jariahel. Venahel. Velel. Abuiori. Ucirnuel.
at the south.
Milliel. Nelapa. Babel. Caluel. Vel. Laquel.
the fumigation of wednesday.
Mastick.
The Conjuration of Wednesday.
Conjuro & confirmo vos angeli fortes, sani & potentes, in nomine fortis, metuendissimi &
benedii Ja, Adonay, Eloim, Saday, Saday, Saday, Eie, Eie, Eie, Asamie, Asaraie: & in nomine
Adonay Dei Israel, qui creavit luminaria magna, ad distinguendum diem à noe: & per nomen
omnium Angelorum deservientium in exercitu secundo coram Tetra Angelo majori, atque forti &
potenti: & per nomen Stellæ, quæ est Mercurius: & per nomen Sigilli, quæ sigillatur a Deo for-
tissimo & honoratio: per omnia prædia super te Raphael Angele magne, conjuro, qui es præposi-
tus die: quartæ: & per nomen sanum quod erat scriptum in fronte Aaron sacerdotis altissimi
creatoris: & per nomina Angelorum qui in gratiam Salvatoris confirmati sunt: & per nomen
sedis Animalium, habentium senas alas, quòd pro me labo, et, &c. As in the Conjuration of
Sunday.
The Spirits of the Air of Wednesday are subje to the South-west-winde: their nature
is to give all Metals; to reveal all earthly things past, present and to come; to pacifie judges,
to give viories in war, to re-edifie, and teach experiments and all decayed Sciences, and
to change bodies mixt of Elements conditionally out of one into another; to give infirmi-
ties or health; to raise the poor, and cast down the high ones; to binde or lose Spirits; to
open locks or bolts: such-kinde of Spirits have the operation of others, but not in their
perfe power, but in virtue or knowledge. The what manner they appear, it is before spo-
ken.

Heptameron
15
Considerations of Thursday.
The Angel of Thursday, his Sigil, Planet, the Signe of the Planet, and the name of the
sixth heaven.
the angels of thursday.
Sachiel. Castiel. Asasiel.
the angels of the air governing thursday.
Suth, Rex.
ministers.
Maguth, Gutrix.
the winde which the said angels of the air are under.
The South-winde.
but because there are no angels of the air to be found above the fifth
heaven, therefore on thursday say the prayers following in the four
parts of the world.
at the east.
O Deus magne & excelse, & honorate, per infinita secula.
at the west.
O Deus sapiens, & clare, & juste, ac divina clementia: ego rogo te piissime Pater, quòd meam
petitionem, quòd meum opus, & meum laborem hodie debeam complere, & perfeè intelligere. Tu
qui vivis & regnas per infinita secula seculorum, Amen.
at the north.
O Deus potens, fortis, & sine principio.
at the south.
O Deus potens & Misericors.
the perfume of thursday.
Saffron.

Heptameron
16
The Conjuration of Thursday.
Conjuro & confirmo super vos, Angeli sani, per nomen, Cados, Cados, Cados, Eschereie,
Eschereie, Eschereie, Hatim ya, fortis firmator seculorum, Cantine, Jaym, Janic, Anic, Calbat,
Sabbac, Berifay, Alnaym: & per nomen Adonay, qui creavit pisces reptilia in aquis, & aves super
faciem terræ, volantes versus coelos die quinto: & per nomina Angelorum serventium in sexto
exercitu coram pastore Angelo sano & magno & potenti principe: & per nomen stellæ, quæ est
Jupiter: & per nomen Sigilli sui: & per nomen Adonay, summi Dei, omnium creatoris: & per
nomen omnium stellarum, & per vim & virtutem earum: & per nomina prædia, conjuro te
Sachiel Angele magne, qui es præpositus dici Jovis, ut pro me labores, &c. As in the Conjuration
of the Lords day.
The Spirits of the Air of Thursday, are subje to the South-winde; their nature is to
procure the love of woman; to cause men to be merry and joyful; to pacifie strife and con-
tentions; to appease enemies; to heal the diseased, and to disease the whole; and procureth
losses, or taketh them away. Their manner of appearing is spoken of already.
Considerations of Friday.
The Angel of Friday, his Sigil, his Planet, the Signe governing that Planet, and name of
the third heaven.
the angels of friday.
Anael. Rachiel. Sachiel.
the angels of the air reigning on friday.
Sarabotes, King.
ministers.
Amabiel. Aba. Abalidoth. Flaef.
the winde which the said angels of the air are under.
The West-winde.
angels of the third heaven, ruling on friday, which are to be called
from the four parts of the world.
at the east.
Setchiel. Chedusitaniel. Corat. Tamael. Tenaciel.
at the west.
Turiel. Coniel. Babiel. Kadie. Maltiel. Huphaltiel.

Heptameron
17
at the north.
Peniel. Pemael. Penat. Raphael. Raniel. Doremiel.
at the south.
Porna. Sachiel. Chermiel. Samael. Santanael. Famiel.
the perfume of friday.
Pepperwort.
The Conjuration of Friday.
Conjuro & confirmo super vos Angeli fortes, sani atque potentes, in nomine On, Hey, Heya, Ja,
Je, Adonay, Saday, & in nomine Saday, qui creavit quadrupedia & anamalia reptilia, & hom-
ines in sexto die, & Adæ dedit potestatem super omnia animalia: unde benedium sit nomen cre-
atoris in loco suo: & per nomina Angelorum servientium in tertio exercitu, coram Dagiel Angelo
magno, principe forti atque potenti: & per nomen Stellæ quæ est Venus: & per Sigillum ejus, quod
quidem est sanum: & per nomina prædia conjuro super te Anael, qui es præpositus diei sextæ,
ut pro me labores, &c. As before in the Conjuration of Sunday.
The Spirits of the Air of Friday are subje to the West-winde; their nature is to give
silver: to excite men, and incline them to luxury; to reconcile enemies through luxury; and
to make marriages; to allure men to love women; to cause, or take away infirmities; and to
do all things which have motion.
Considerations of Saturday, or the Sabbath day.
The Angel of Saturday, his Seal, his Planet, and the Signe governing the Planet.
the angels of saturday.
Cassiel. Machatan. Uriel.
the angels of the air ruling on saturday.
Maymon, King.
ministers.
Abumalith. Assaibi. Balidet.
the winde which the said angels of the air aforesaid are under.
The Southwest-winde.
the fumigation of friday.
Sulphur.

Heptameron
18
It is already declared in the Consideration of Thursday, That there are no Angels ruling
the Air, above the fifth heaven: therefore in the four Angles of the world, use those Ora-
tions which you see applied to that purpose on Thursday.
The Conjuration of Saturday.
Conjuro & confirmo super vos Caphriel vel Cassiel, Machatori, & Seraquiel Angeli fortes &
potentes: & per nomen Adonay, Adonay, Adonay, Eie, Eie, Eie, Acim, Acim, Acin, Cados,
Cados, Ina vel Ima, Ima, Saclay, Ja, Sar, Domini formatoris seculorum, qui in septimo die quie
vt: & per illum qui in beneplacito suo filiis Israel in hereditatem observandum dedit, ut eum fir-
miter custodirent, & sanificarent, ad habendem inde bonam in alio seculo remunerationem: &
per nomina Angelorum servientium in exercitu septimo Pooel Angelo magno & potenti principi:
& per nomen stellæ quæ est Saturnus: & per sanum Sigillum ejus: & per nomina prædia con-
juro super te Caphriel, qui præpositus es diei septimæ, quæ est dies Sabbati, quòd pro me labores,
&c. As is set down in the Conjuration of the Lords day.
The Spirits of the Air of Saturday are subje to the Southwest-winde: the nature of
them is to sow discordes, hatred, evil thoughts and cogitations; to give leave freely, to slay
and kill every one, and to lame or maim every member. Their manner of appearing is
declared in the former book.

Heptameron
19


Tables of the Angels of the Hours, according to the course of the
dayes.
SUNDAY.
SUNDAY NIGHT
Hours of the day. 	Angels 	of 	the
hours.
Hours of the day. 	Angels 	of 	the
hours.
1. Yayn. 	Michael. 	7. Ourer. 	Samael.
2. Janor. 	Anael. 	8. Tanic. 	Michael.
3. Nasnia. 	Raphael. 	9. Neron. 	Anael.
4. Salla. 	Gabriel. 	10. Jayon. 	Raphael.
5. Sadedali. 	Cassiel. 	11. Abay. 	Gabriel.
6. Thamur. 	Sachiel. 	12. Natalon. 	Cassiel.
Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Beron. 	Sachiel. 	7. Netos. 	Cassiel.
2. Barol. 	Samael. 	8. Tafrac. 	Sachiel.
3. Thanu. 	Michael. 	9. Saffur. 	Samael.
4. Athir. 	Anael. 	10. Aglo. 	Michael.
5. Mathun. 	Raphael. 	11. Calerna. 	Anael.
6. Rana. 	Gabriel. 	12. Salam. 	Raphael.

Heptameron
20
MUNDAY.
TUESDAY.
Hours of the day. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Yayn. 	Gabriel. 	1. Beron. 	Anael.
2. Janor. 	Cassiel. 	2. Barol. 	Raphael.
3. Nasnia. 	Sachiel. 	3. Thanu. 	Gabriel.
4. Salla. 	Samael. 	4. Athir. 	Cassiel.
5. Sadedali. 	Michael. 	5. Mathon. 	Sachiel.
6. Thamur. 	Anael. 	6. Rana. 	Samael.
7. Ourer. 	Raphael. 	7. Netos. 	Michael.
8. Tanic. 	Gabriel. 	8. Tafrac. 	Anael.
9. Neron. 	Cassiel. 	9. Sassur. 	Raphael.
10. Jayon. 	Sachiel. 	10. Aglo. 	Gabriel.
11. Abay. 	Samael. 	11. Calerna. 	Cassiel.
12. Natalon. 	Michael. 	12. Salam. 	Sachiel.
Hours of the day. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Yayn. 	Samael. 	1. Beron. 	Cassiel.
2. Janor. 	Michael. 	2. Barol. 	Sachiel.
3. Nasnia. 	Anael. 	3. Thanu. 	Samael.
4. Salla. 	Raphael. 	4. Athir. 	Michael.
5. Sadedali. 	Gabriel. 	5. Mathon. 	Anael.
6. Thamur. 	Cassiel. 	6. Rana. 	Raphael.
7. Ourer. 	Sachiel. 	7. Netos. 	Gabriel.
8. Tanic. 	Samael. 	8. Tafrac. 	Cassiel.
9. Neron. 	Michael. 	9. Sassur. 	Sachiel.
10. Jayon. 	Anael. 	10. Aglo. 	Samael.
11. Abay. 	Raphael. 	11. Calerna. 	Michael.
12. Natalon. 	Gabriel. 	12. Salam. 	Anael.

Heptameron
21
WEDNESDAY.
THURSDAY.
Hours of the day. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Yayn. 	Raphael. 	1. Beron. 	Michael.
2. Janor. 	Gabriel. 	2. Barol. 	Anael.
3. Nasnia. 	Cassiel. 	3. Thanu. 	Raphael.
4. Salla. 	Sachael. 	4. Athir. 	Gabriel.
5. Sadedali. 	Samael. 	5. Mathon. 	Cassiel.
6. Thamur. 	Michael. 	6. Rana. 	Sachiel.
7. Ourer. 	Anael. 	7. Netos. 	Samael.
8. Tanic. 	Raphael. 	8. Tafrac. 	Michael.
9. Neron. 	Gabriel. 	9. Sassur. 	Anael.
10. Jayon. 	Cassiel. 	10. Aglo. 	Raphael.
11. Abay. 	Sachiel. 	11. Calerna. 	Gabriel.
12. Natalon. 	Samael. 	12. Salam. 	Cassiel.
Hours of the day. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Yayn. 	Sachiel. 	1. Beron. 	Gabriel.
2. Janor. 	Samael. 	2. Barol. 	Cassiel.
3. Nasnia. 	Michael. 	3. Thanu. 	Sachiel.
4. Salla. 	Anael. 	4. Athir. 	Samael.
5. Sadedali. 	Raphael. 	5. Mathon. 	Michael.
6. Thamur. 	Gabriel. 	6. Rana. 	Anael.
7. Ourer. 	Cassiel. 	7. Netos. 	Raphael.
8. Tanic. 	Sachiel. 	8. Tafrac. 	Gabriel.
9. Neron. 	Samael. 	9. Sassur. 	Cassiel.
10. Jayon. 	Michael. 	10. Aglo. 	Sachiel.
11. Abay. 	Anael. 	11. Calerna. 	Samael.
12. Natalon. 	Raphael. 	12. Salam. 	Michael.

Heptameron
22
FRIDAY.
SATURDAY.
Hours of the day. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Yayn. 	Anael. 	1. Beron. 	Samael.
2. Janor. 	Raphael. 	2. Barol. 	Michael.
3. Nasnia. 	Gabriel. 	3. Thanu. 	Anael.
4. Salla. 	Cassiel. 	4. Athir. 	Raphael.
5. Sadedali. 	Sachiel. 	5. Mathon. 	Gabriel.
6. Thamur. 	Samael. 	6. Rana. 	Cassiel.
7. Ourer. 	Michael. 	7. Netos. 	Sachiel.
8. Tanic. 	Anael. 	8. Tafrac. 	Samael.
9. Neron. 	Raphael. 	9. Sassur. 	Michael.
10. Jayon. 	Gabriel. 	10. Aglo. 	Anael.
11. Abay. 	Cassiel. 	11. Calerna. 	Raphael.
12. Natalon. 	Sachiel. 	12. Salam. 	Gabriel.
Hours of the day. 	Angels of the hours. 	Hours of the night. 	Angels of the hours.
1. Yayn. 	Cassiel. 	1. Beron. 	Raphael.
2. Janor. 	Sachiel. 	2. Barol. 	Gabriel.
3. Nasnia. 	Samael. 	3. Thanu. 	Cassiel.
4. Salla. 	Michael. 	4. Athir. 	Sachiel.
5. Sadedali. 	Anael. 	5. Mathon. 	Samael.
6. Thamur. 	Raphael. 	6. Rana. 	Michael.
7. Ourer. 	Gabriel. 	7. Netos. 	Anael.
8. Tanic. 	Cassiel. 	8. Tafrac. 	Raphael.
9. Neron. 	Sachiel. 	9. Sassur. 	Gabriel.
10. Jayon. 	Samael. 	10. Aglo. 	Cassiel.
11. Abay. 	Michael. 	11. Calerna. 	Sachiel.
12. Natalon. 	Anael. 	12. Salam. 	Samael.

Heptameron
23
But this is to be observed by the way, that the first hour of the day, of every Country,
and in every season whatsoever, is to be assigned to the Sun-rising, when he first appe-
areth arising in the horizon: and the first hour of the night is to be the thirteenth hour,
from the first hour of the day. But of these things it is sufficiently spoken.
FINIS.
        
The Heptameron of Peter de Abano.
Transcribed from the 1657 edition of The Fourth Book of Occult Philosophy, translated and
edited by Robert Turner.
Adobe Acrobat edition created by Benjamin Rowe, July 1, 2000.
NOTE: This document is optimized for printing on a laser or inkjet printer. The illustra-
tions may appear “jagged” when viewed onscreen with certain displays. They will print at
the full resolution of your printer.
