Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 1
Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of
LaVey's Early Writings
by Amina Olander Lap, 2008
Abstract
Researchers have classified Anton LaVey's so-called “modern Satanism” as a self-spirituality (as
defined by Paul Heelas) New Age group, and as a Human Potential Movement group. This paper
analyzes LaVey's view of human nature and the human ego in his early works with respect to
these classifications by identifying similarities and differences between the characteristics of
these classifications and the early writings of LaVey. The analysis concludes that it is reasonable
to categorize LaVey's Satanism as both a self-spirituality New Age group and as a Human Poten-
tial Movement group; however, this paper proposes that LaVey's modern Satanism is more accu-
rately described as a member of the “prosperity wing” sub-classification of self-spirituality New
Age.
Table of Contents
1. Introduction........................................................................................................................................2
2. Research in Modern Satanism............................................................................................................2
3. Categorization of Modern Satanism...................................................................................................3
4. Humanistic Psychology and the Human Potential Movement.............................................................4
5. SelfSpirituality ..................................................................................................................................4
6. Primary Sources.................................................................................................................................6
7. LaVey's View of Humans....................................................................................................................7
7.1 The Damaged Self.............................................................................................................7
7.2 The Actualized Self..........................................................................................................9
7.3 Liberating Magic.............................................................................................................11
7.4 The Satanic Self..............................................................................................................12
8. Summary..........................................................................................................................................13
9. Recategorization as the Prosperity Wing..........................................................................................14
Sources................................................................................................................................................15
Appendix 1: Bibliography of Significant Research..............................................................................17
Appendix 2: The Nine Satanic Statements...........................................................................................18
Appendix 3: The LaVey Personality Synthesizer.................................................................................19
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 2
1. Introduction
The very name “Satanism” makes it a controversial topic in Christian cultures. It is therefore not sur
prising that Satanism has sparked numerous gloomy imaginations and has been a darling subject in
both Christian gospel literature, anticult movements, and popular culture. However, in spite of this in
terest sociologists have only recently begun to take Satanism seriously.
The socalled “modern Satanism,” i.e., the form of Satanism that was founded by Anton LaVey in the
1960ies in the US, and which is generally accepted as the first genuine, organized Satanism, has earlier
been classified as a new religious movement in the same category as modern occultism or neopagan
ism. More recent research has augmented or replaced this categorization with Paul Heelas' term “self
spirituality,” which refers to the kind of spirituality found in New Age (NA) movements or within part
of the Human Potential Movement (HPM). However, modern Satanism is a rather new field of socio
logical interest, and although LaVey's writings still occupy a key role within the movement, only few
indepth text analyses have been made, and virtually no further discussions have been made in terms
of the categorization of modern Satanism.
This paper summarizes my analysis of LaVey's writing with respect to selfspirituality and HPM, with
particular focus on his concept of the human nature and self. This focus was chosen in part because
humans occupy a key role both in terms of modern Satanism, HPM, and selfspirituality, and because I
expected that this approch would illuminate both similarities and differences between modern Sa
tanism and generic selfspirituality and HPM. This paper thus attempts to answer the question: “How
does Anton LaVey describe human nature; and how does this description harmonize with general ten
dencies within the Human Potential Movement and Heelas' term, selfspirituality?”
This paper is organized as follows: firstly, research in modern Satanism is briefly summarized and ear
lier categorizations are outlined. This historic information is followed by an introduction to humanistic
psychology, HPM, and selfspirituality. The analysis, which is the main focus of this paper, is intro
duced with a description of the primary sources, and LaVey's view of humans is described and com
pared with NA and HPM. The paper concludes with a recategorization proposal and arguments sup
porting this proposal.
2. Research in Modern Satanism
Research in modern Satanism has accelerated only within the last decade. In the 1970es a few anthro
pological studies were performed (Moody 1974, Alfred 1976), but otherwise Satanism has mostly
been described by Satanists themselves, journalists, and Christian countercult movements. In the
1980es, Satanism became interesting to sociologists and folklorists as a result of the socalled “Satanic
Panic,” a moral panic that focused on the supposed existence of a subversive, Satanic conspiracy. The
public fear of Satanists, the ensuing lawsuits, and the vast amount of literature published by counter
cult and anticult movements triggered a fair amount of academic papers and books on Satanism as
Christian demonology, urban legend, rumor panic, ostensive acting among teenagers, media dis
course, etc. Academic interest lay on the use of Satanism as a myth, and with few exceptions existing
Satanism was only mentioned in order to reject alleged connections between existing Satanism and
myth. Even so, the mention was so cursory that in a review of perhaps the most important book on Sa
tanism in that period, The Satanism Scare (Bromley 1991), British sociologist Graham Harvey felt
compelled to ask whether Satanists really existed (Harvey 1995). Descriptions of modern Satanism
were usually limited to brief summaries of LaVey's books, uncritically supplemented with information
from LaVey's partially fabricated biographies.
This lack of contemporary sources and sociological data is not necessarily indicative of superficiality
or lacking interest, but may be explained otherwise: in 1975, modern Satanism had become a splin
tered and disorganized movement, and from the mid1970es until the mid1990es, Satanism seemed to
exist in such relative obscurity that Gordon Melton almost declared it extinct (Melton 1997, 608). This
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 3
picture changed in the mid1990es when Satanism began to appear on the Internet where it became
easier for Satanists to share material, communicate, and network (Petersen 2002). This flourishing
probably explains a renewed interest among sociologists, including papers and books by US sociolo
gist James R. Lewis and Ph. D. studies in Sweden and Norway (Mathisen 2008). The new studies have
mostly been of sociological interest and have mainly focused on minor, local groups and interaction on
the Internet, and to a lesser degree on the textual sources of modern Satanism.
The explanation of the lacking academic interest in modern Satanism is thus presumably a combina
tion of two things: the small number of Satanists, and the fact that Satanism was a rather decentralized
movement. In 1971, in the early years of the Church of Satan, the membership count was estimated at
400 to 500 individuals, and in 19681969 while the organization still conducted group rituals, only
about 50 to 60 individuals regularly attended the rituals (Alfred 2008, 490f). Observing Satanism in its
current, decentralized form, and ignoring those teenagers that appear to be using Satanism as a part of
a youth rebellion, Graham Harvey assessed the number of Satanists in England in 1995 to be fewer
than 100 (Harvey 1995), and sociologist Jesper Aagaard Petersen conjectured the number of Danish
Satanists to be no more than a few hundred individuals in 2002 (Batchelor 2002), which is presumably
still the case. The Church of Satan originally had a centralized structure, membership, and organiza
tion, similar to those found in contemporary new religious groups. However, after LaVey had ceased
to conduct group rituals, workshops, and other activities in his own house in 1972 and the system of
local groups (“grottos”) had been abandoned in 1975, the group became highly decentralized and be
came organized as an “audience cult,” as it is termed in the NA movement (Aldridge 2002, 207), using
the Internet as its primary medium for contact and information exchange (Lewis 2001, Lap 2002). Ap
pendix 1 provides a bibliography of the most important research literature in modern Satanism.
3. Categorization of Modern Satanism
Categorizations of modern Satanism have been strongly influenced by popular culture and theological
imaginations, usually resulting in Satanism being described in terms of medieval concepts of witches'
Sabbaths and demon worship, or in terms of theological notions about Satanism as inverse Christian
ity. This tendency is exemplified in Opslagsbog i Religion/Livsanskuelse (a Danish handbook of reli
gions) from 1983:
Satanism, Satan cult: worship of forces of evil, with °occult ceremonies, the so-called °black
masses. S involves a blasphemous attitude towards anything sacred, in particular the Christian
worship of evil: the “Lord's Supper” is celebrated by drinking sacrifical blood, the mass is read
from behind, the “Apostle's Creed” uses the name of the °Antichrist. These practices may be
combined with elements from traditional °fertility cults, °witchcraft, black °magic, and sex
cults. S has primarily been mentioned in the US (e.g., the Manson sect) and England, e.g., as
°exorcism and as part of °new religious movements.
Most of this explanation, which appears to be an attempt to unite medieval, theological concepts with
the study of new religious movements, has been rejected by sociologists that have studied modern Sa
tanism. They have instead described Satanism as a new religious movement, such as in the book: Nye
religiøse bevægelser i Danmark [i.e., New Religious Movements in Denmark] (Pade 1999), and in sev
eral of Gordon Melton's papers, including Modern Alternative Religions in the West. In this paper,
Melton includes Satanism in “The Magical Family” together with Crowleyinspired occultism and
modern witchcraft (Melton 1997, 608). This categorization is somewhat problematic, however, be
cause Satanism became strongly decentralized and thus lost much of its structural similarity with other
new religious movements as early as 1975. Olav Hammer, on the other hand, classifies Satanism as
part of NA, but Hammer seems to be rather uninformed about modern Satanism: for example, in the
few lines he spends on his description of Satanism, Hammer writes about the Temple of Set that they:
“worship a being that is called the Prince of Darkness,” which is somewhat misleading at best (Ham
mer 1997, 112f). Depating from these earlier classifications, today researchers seem to have reached
an agreement that modern Satanism should be categorized as HPM and/or selfspirituality (Petersen
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 4
2005, Dyrendal 2007, La Fontaine 1999), but few researchers clarify this categorization. The next sec
tion provides a brief introduction to these terms, beginning with an outline of humanistic psychology,
which served as a foundation for both HPM and NA.
4. Humanistic Psychology and the Human Potential Movement
Humanistic psychology was originally an objection against the industrialization, urbanization, materi
alism, and environmental destruction of the 1950es and 1960es. It was also intended as an alternative
to the behavioristic and psychoanalytical fields of psychology which humanistic psychologists thought
objectified humans or focused only on our illnesses. The new approach of humanistic psychology was
to focus on the “healthy” human being, humans as conscious actors, and human strengths and abilities
and options for lifelong development.
Abraham Maslow, who represented the movement together with colleagues such as Carl Rogers, Rolly
May, and others, believed that every person possesses a huge potential and a natural desire to become
selfactualized. The reason why the prosperous Western society sported only about 10% selfactual
ized people according to Maslow, was undesirable influence and upbringing, for example when a child
experienced a conflict between its own feelings and the expectations of its surroundings. If an individ
ual managed to deliberate himself or herself from undesirable external influences, then not only would
this individual be able to realize his or her hidden potential, the person would also reach his or her “au
thentic self.” This authentic self was considered naturally “good” and able to instinctively act properly
and responsibly to the advantage of itself and its surroundings (Schultz 2004:461ff).
Humanistic psychology has been accused of promoting narcissism without social responsibility. This
conflicts with the selfunderstanding of humanistic psychology, however, as it describes insight, love
to oneself, and love of others as inseparable and mutually reinforcing (Puttick 2000, 205).
The term “The Human Potential Movement” has been used as an umbrella description for a large array
of groups, activities, people, and techniques that are found in the tension between spirituality and psy
chology, and which have a particular focus on furthering the physical, emotional, mental, creative, or
spiritual potential that each individual is believed to possess (Wallis 1985, 129). HPM became what
Elizabeth Puttick coins the “psychospiritual” part of the countercultural movement that began to grow
in the 1960es in the US with inspiration from humanistic psychology. From its onset, HPM was an ob
jection against established psychology, organized religion, philosophical and theological intellectual
ism, and what was considered destructive, scientific materialism (Puttick 2000). It is more difficult to
distinguish New Age (NA) and HPM today, and some consider HPM to be a less spiritual branch of
NA while others consider HPM and NA to be partially overlapping.
The two categories share many traits in content and organization. Structurally, HPM resembles NA be
cause of their widespread eclecticism and loose structures. Members participate in many different con
texts, and each individual selects and combines whatever makes sense to him or her. Some groups
(e.g., Scientology) are organized as new religious movements that demand strong loyalty or maintain
an orthodox belief or ritual system, and are found in the periphery of HPM (Stone 1976, 94). HPM is
typically less spiritual than NA, but spirituality is also found in HPM, especially in the shape of Bud
dhist or Eastern influence. If a god appears in HPM, typically it is not a god in a common, Christian
sense, but rather a form of cosmic energy, the person's true nature, or some shared life force (Stone
1976, 103).
5. Self-Spirituality
Heelas uses the expression “selfspirituality” as a reference to the shared paradigm or core ideology of
NA. Selfspirituality encompasses three basic elements according to Heelas: an explanation of what is
wrong with life and the world, a vision of the goal of perfection, and a set of methods to achieve it
(Heelas 1996, 18ff). This section outlines these three elements and compares the spiritual self with two
other perceptions of self that we find in today's society.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 5
NA has inherited the explanation of what is wrong with society and humans from HPM: the problem is
first and foremost improper socialization caused by a society that has ruined our authentic selves and
induced in us guilt, fear, inhibitions, poor selfesteem, victim roles, unnecessary selfrestrictions, and a
wish to impress others. These external influences are often described as a person's ego, lower self, in
tellect, or consciousness (ibid).
Perfection or salvation is believed to be achievable by letting go of one's ego by which one supposedly
is able to uncover one's authentic or higher self, and thus one's true spiritual nature. There are varying
perceptions of the spiritual self within NA, but central to many of the other shared notions is the belief
that it is connected to something greater than man, i.e., the divine, the eternal, or cosmos. This belief is
reflected in the attitude towards authority, ethics, and responsibility.
NA has also inherited HPM's emphasis on personal experience. Personal experience is the only or
highest authority in NA, because the spiritual self promises more direct access to true knowledge than
handeddown religions, gurus, scientists, or experts can offer. This prioritization of authority is re
flected in the practitioner's ethics where his or her “inner voice” or intuition is preferred to tradition
and dogma. The spiritual self makes each individual fully responsible for his or her own life, because
the relinquishment of the ego is presumed to also have freed the person from those external influences
that the person might otherwise have blamed (e.g., childhood or society) for his or her shortcomings.
In some NA segments this concept of personal responsibility is extended to include responsibility for
the birth of one's parents or reality as such, but in a less radical form it may simply convey a sense of
responsibility towards the world and one's fellow man, or the view that everyone is responsible for his
or her own life and that interference with the lives of others will only impede their ability to relinquish
their egos and find their true ways that only their spiritual selves can show them.
NA offers a large number of techniques for letting go of one's ego and realizing one's spiritual self or
hidden potential. The breadth of methods and goals are characteristic of NA, but they may be arranged
by applying Heelas' distinction (which he borrows from the study of new religious groups) between
groups that are “worldrejecting,” “harmonial,” or “worldaffirming.” The first category applies to
those segments of NA that are primarily occupied with letting go of the ego and realizing a spiritual
self and spiritual reality. The second category is the largest one and includes those NA groups that seek
to obtain the “best of both worlds,” that is, to strike a balance between the spiritual and the material or
corporeal. The last category, which will prove to be the most interesting one for this study, is the
“prosperity wing” segment of NA. This segment of NA is the one that resembles HPM the most, and it
is less concerned with letting go of the ego and more with realizing one's potential in one's profes
sional life or realizing more materialistic goals (ibid).
There is a smooth transition between those ideas that are found in NA and those that are found in soci
ety in general. Heelas notes that in some cases NA simply states common tendencies in a more radical
or spiritual form. Such similarities are also found in the perception of self. Heelas borrows Steven Hip
ton's distinction between the expressive self and the utilitaristic self: the utilitaristic individualist is fo
cused on satisfying his or her own desires and interests, and to use his or her power, will, determina
tion, initiative, ability to reason, etc. to maximize what the world may offer. The self is viewed as sep
arate from family, religion, calling, authority, duty, moral exemplars, etc. The utilitaristic self serves as
a foundation of several assumptions in society, such as the belief that there is something powerful in
each individual that can be utilized and improved, enabling the person to increase his or her benefit
from the material world. This utilitaristic self is most visible in NA's “prosperity wing,” for example in
the shape of selfhelp literature and techniques employing positive thinking as methods to achieve suc
cess and financial gains. This segment of NA is often found in a gray zone between the secular and the
spiritual by associating psychological mechanisms (or something that resembles psychological mecha
nisms) with magical effects, for example by stipulating that positive thinking alone can alter physical
reality.
The expressive self that is radicalized by NA to a spiritual self contrasts the utilitaristic self to some
degree. The expressive individualist believes that there is more to life than the satisfaction of arbitrary
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 6
desires, in particular those desires that are stimulated by the capitalist emphasis on increase and mate
rialistic consumerism. Instead, one attempts to identify and act out an authentic self. Materialistic
goals are avoided as they are assumed to lead to greed, envy, and superficiality. Values are found in
side of oneself, and one works on personal growth, meaningful relations, and the ability to be in touch
with oneself (ibid, 160ff).
6. Primary Sources
The primary sources require a brief introduction, because their differences and forms are of interest to
the analysis. The primary sources are LaVey's first three books: The Satanic Bible (1969), The Com-
pleat Witch (1970), and The Satanic Rituals (1972). The later books, The Devil's Notebook (1992) and
Satan Speaks! (1998) and various magazine articles and interviews have been omitted, as these sour
ces either represent a much later period in LaVey's writing or have reached a much smaller audience1.
Of LaVey's three books, it is The Satanic Bible that had a major impact on modern Satanism. James
Lewis describes The Satanic Bible as “a kind of quasi-scripture within the Satanic subculture” and
“the single most influential document shaping the contemporary Satanic movement” (Lewis 2002).
Both Lewis' and my own research indicates that it was LaVey's books, and in particular The Satanic
Bible, that occupy a central position in modern Satanism both in terms of market dominance and sta
tus. In a survey that I conduced in 2002, only a single respondent did not indicate that he or she had
read at least one of LaVey's books.2 Both Lewis' and my own research also indicate that the respon
dents did not consider The Satanic Bible a “Bible in the Christian sense” and that most of them knew
LaVey's writings and had formed an opinion of them by either supporting or repudiating them.
The Satanic Bible is divided into four sections. The first section is an antiChristian diatribe that serves
as a powerful attack on Christianity and Christian morals, proposing social Darwinism as an alterna
tive. The second section is a compilation of a number of short texts that explain LaVey's attitude to
wards issues such as love and hate, sex, desire versus compulsion, the necessity of being able to say
no, the black mass, etc. These texts refer to the socalled “Nine Satanic Statements,” which may be
viewed as a condensed version of LaVey's philosophy (see Appendix 2). The last two sections of the
book describe LaVey's view on magic and include practical instructions for rituals. The book has been
in print since 1969 with varying prefaces, and has been published in several languages.
The Satanic Rituals is LaVey's secondmost popular book in terms of number of readers within the Sa
tanic subculture. The book includes a handful of rituals that are inspired by both known groups and re
ligions, such as the Yezidi religion and freemasonry, and the fiction of H. P. Lovecraft. The rituals are
an indistinct combination of borrowed scripture and the author's own writing, but in most cases the rit
uals are presented as authentic rituals founded in real traditions. This presentation is put in perspective
in the introduction to the book, however, where LaVey states that the Satanist has access to all the
mysteries of the world but as opposed to, e.g., Christians, the Satanist admits that they are fairy tales
(LaVey 1972, 27).
The Compleat Witch, or The Satanic Witch, as it was later entitled, was published in 1970 and 1971,
and then was not republished until 1989. The book describes the kind of everyday manipulation that
LaVey terms “lesser magic” in The Satanic Witch. It is introduced as an extension of the workshops
that LaVey conducted prior to the establishment of the Church of Satan and until around 1972. The
book is aimed at female readers and explains how female attractiveness can be used to enchant and
1 A cautious estimate of the relative popularity can be gauged via the Internet bookstore Amazon.com's list of best
selling books. On May 26, 2008, The Satanic Bible ranked no. 5,608, The Satanic Witch no. 19,979, and The Sa-
tanic Rituals no. 26,499. The Devil's Notebook ranked no. 43,230 and Satan Speaks! no. 93,323. The Satanic
Witch has a higher sales rank than The Satanic Rituals; it is fair to explain this phenomenon by assuming that The
Satanic Witch is read outside of the Satanic subculture.
2 This survey was conducted in 20012002 via the Internet and questionnaires that were included with the magazi
ne ”Satanisk Bulletin,” which is the only Danish magazine on Satanism. The 39 answers is limited statistical ma
terial, but since the number of Satanists in Denmark is usually estimated in the few hundreds, they can be
expected to represent a large percentage of the Danish Satanists.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 7
manipulate men. The book is based on the premises that females are almost entirely dependent on
men, and that men can be manipulated by means of sexual attraction. The book is also a deliberately
reactionary commentary on the female movement and the unisex movement of the 1960es and 1970es
which according to LaVey are misogynist inventions. The book concludes with a bibliography with
more than 170 entries covering genres such as psychology, anthropology, folklore, sociology, biology,
etc., many of which deal with sexuality and body language. There are virtually no references or dis
cussions of sources in the main text, however, leaving an impression that the bibliography serves to ei
ther pretend a scientific foundation, that is, to legitimize LaVey as a learned person, or to inspire fur
ther reading.
LaVey's books are easy to read as most of the contents are written in a clear and direct language, yet at
the same time difficult to work with as many aspects are stated vaguely or ambiguously, some with
tongue in cheek or in a deliberately occult or blasphemous language in order to appeal to the reader's
fantasy or emotions. LaVey focuses on making the Satanic philosophy and rituals accessible so that
each individual can use Satanism to obtain pleasure and success in his or her life, here and now. It is
much more difficult to find clear explanations on how LaVey expects magic to work, what he believes
happens after death, or where the divine or demonic fits into the equation. LaVey concludes his pref
ace to The Satanic Bible with a statement that the reader will find fantasy and truth, and that both of
these must be taken for what they are. Which is which is an open question that apparently LaVey
leaves to the reader to answer.
7. LaVey's View of Humans
Recall that Heelas operates with three basic elements: an explanation of what is wrong with life and
the world; a description of the goal of perfection; and methods to reach salvation. In the following sub
sections, I will show how these elements can be found in LaVey's writing, and I will attempt to map
LaVey's perception of self to the spiritual, the expressive, and the utilitaristic selves.
7.1 The Damaged Self
Keeping tradition with NA and HPM, LaVey identifies numerous defects and shortcomings in society
that cause life and humans to function poorly.
LaVey describes his Satanism as a religion that opposes all other religions, considering Satanism the
only religion that celebrates flesh and earthly life, and embraces the entire human being whether good
or evil (LaVey 1969, 52). LaVey does not only oppose Christianity but also the spirituality of, e.g.,
Eastern religions or neopaganism is considered problematic; in particular the modern witchcraft move
ment is criticized intensely, indicating that LaVey considers it a contesting movement (ibid, 50ff, 84f.
LaVey 1970, 12ff).
Most of LaVey's criticism against religion is aimed at Christianity, but he aims at its historical impact
on the Western culture, as LaVey believes Christianity to be dying (LaVey 1969, 43ff. 1972, 33), leav
ing the contemporary new religious movements as a more present threat to mankind. When Christian
ity nonetheless receives the most of the blame for the troubles of mankind, it is both because of the
Christian teachings and the Christian morals that LaVey believes have been institutionalized and still
guide people even if they have liberated themselves from the dogma of the church. LaVey believes
that Christianity has demonized human nature by defining natural instincts and emotions as sinful,
trapping mankind in a perpetual state of feeling guilty that served to ensure the church its power and
influence (LaVey 1969, 50ff, 82ff). This demonization and guiltinducement causes a large number of
impediments to human emotions, sexuality, selfesteem, interpersonal relations, chances of selfreal
ization, health, etc. The Christian “Great Commandment” is reprehended for encouraging uncritical
love towards both friends and foes. LaVey does not only consider this impossible and unnatural, but
also highly damaging. To LaVey, both love and hate are strong, vital, and natural emotions, and only
by recognizing and accepting both emotions can humans distinguish between them and use them con
structively. Otherwise humans will lose the ability to love those that deserve it, and the suppressed
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 8
hate will lead to both mental and physical problems and diseases, or the suppressed hate may be di
rected at innocent people (LaVey 1969, 64f. 1989, 247f).
LaVey also strongly reprehends the attitude of the church towards sexuality, but also takes opportunity
to criticize the attitudes towards sexuality of Eastern religions, society, counterculture, and psychol
ogy. LaVey believes that Christianity has made sexuality wrong and sinful, and although Western
world people in the 1960es may have intellectually accepted sex as natural and healthy, they still had
feelings of guilt, especially towards masturbation and fetishes. LaVey advocates free sex but is not
only critical against Christian norms; also the new sexual morals proposed by the counterculture is
criticized. LaVey considers all kinds of sex legal as long as the parties involved are adults and respon
sible people, and noone is forced to act against his or her will. He also considers it important that oth
ers should not define what is natural or healthy sexuality, which he believes is the case in contempo
rary sexual liberation. LaVey does not limit healthy and liberated sexuality to intercourse between two
or more partners, but also includes asexuality, sadism, masochism, fetishism, masturbation, homosexu
ality, transsexuality, etc. in his definition. This broad view of sexuality implies that the celibacy of the
ascetic or the monk becomes sexually deviant, according to LaVey, because it is either asexuality or
unacknowledged masochism (LaVey 1969, 84). He believes that it is necessary to deliberate oneself
from feelings of sexual guilt, also unconsciously, because otherwise it will lead to neuroses and the
passing of guilt to future generations (ibid, 66ff).
Relinquishing the ego and uncovering the authentic self are important themes in NA and HPM. The
ego plays a similarly important role to LaVey, but he defines it differently. Some of the influences that
LaVey wants to free the individual from, such as internalized morals, would be considered undesired
functions of the ego in other groups within NA or HPM, and in that sense LaVey agrees with the no
tions of NA and HPM. However, with the exception of these unwanted influences, LaVey considers
the ego to be unconditionally positive and associated with qualities such as pride, selfrespect and self
realization, and he sees the possession of a healthy and strong ego as necessary to treat others well. To
LaVey, the ego question is therefore not limited to the influence of the ego but also the attempts of
Christianity and other religions to suppress the ego or, as is the case of Eastern religions, the attempts
to eliminate it. LaVey describes Satanism as a religion that believes in total satisfaction of the ego and
as the only religion that advocates intensification and encouragement of the ego (LaVey 1969, 94).
Feelings such as envy, greed, etc., which are found among the seven deadly sins of the Catholic
church, and which are seen as functions of the ego by NA and HPM, are also welcomed by LaVey,
who sees these emotions as both natural, necessary, and generally human. In LaVeys interpretation,
envy and greed become motivating for ambition (ibid, 46f), and egoism and selfrespect become the
necessary foundation for a vital life and for loving and respecting others. LaVey believes that the idea
of dissolving the ego and rejecting material wealth was developed in areas where material success was
difficult to obtain, and that faith could pacify people and make them satisfied with what little they had.
LaVey considers this a commendable strategy from the powers that be, but outright stupid in a society
of plenty (ibid, 92f). Satanists would never willingly choose selfdenial according to LaVey, and as
will be evident later in this paper, many of LaVey's techniques for deliberating and developing the in
dividual are aimed at developing what LaVey considers a strong ego.
Another topic that is stressed in LaVey's books is the problematic interaction with other people. Ed
ward J. Moody, who studied the Church of Satan during its early years, described its teaching as a kind
of “magical therapy” that helped the members of the church overcome their social disabilities that
caused them to fail in their relations with other people (Moody 2008). Solutions to relationship prob
lems with other people require special techniques that may exceed conventional measures, according
to LaVey. Poor human relations may come in the shape of a superior that treats one badly and cannot
be told off; it may be a crush on someone that is not returned; it may be a threatening enemy or com
petitor; or it may be the “psychic vampire” that is draining energy and mental resources. In each of
these examples, other people become obstacles that must be conquered via magic, manipulation, or
otherwise prevented from taking advantage of oneself. Cooperation is found as the “modified golden
rule,” which is a titfortat principle of treating others as they treat you. The human interaction in a
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 9
love relationships also seems to become a game to be won, and altruism is displayed as the Satanist's
acts of kindness towards those that he or she appreciates because their happiness pleases the Satanist
(LaVey 1969, 51).
LaVey's notion of sexuality, drives, the idea of suppressed feelings, the importance of the conscious
and the subconscious, the possibility of developing neuroses, the realization of potential, etc. are
clearly inspired by both the psychoanalytical and humanistic psychology. As mentioned earlier, The
Satanic Witch includes a long list of books written by psychologists, and in a later official reading list
for Satanists, LaVey mentions Freud, Jung, and Reich (Barton 1990, 163ff). The reason behind this
significant interest in psychology appears to be part an acknowledgment of science as authoritative,
and part a theory that psychological insight is required because of the human intelligence. LaVey de
scribes humans as the only animal capable of lying to itself and believing the lie, which according to
LaVey forces humans to constantly pursue selfawareness (LaVey 1972, 15). The evident inspiration
from psychology is not a loving relationship, however. Arthur Lyons, who wrote about LaVey's philos
ophy in the beginning of the 1970es, described the Church of Satan as “antipsychiatric” (Lyons 1970,
186), and in The Satanic Rituals LaVey refers to psychologist Thomas S. Szasz when he identifies Sa
tanists with the role of the mentally ill as social critics or opposition to society (LaVey 1972, 16f).
Szasz became associated with the antipsychiatry movement in the US in the 1960'es and 1970'es, and
was known for considering psychiatry a pseudoscientific movement that used diagnostics of mental
illnesses to control the population. Today the antipsychiatric movement is remembered for its postu
late that schizophrenia is the healthy reaction to a sick society, and Szasz' ideas have found their way
into in Scientology. LaVey's critical towards psychiatry is much more moderate in his books and seems
to be limited to those “hangups” of fetishes that part of psychology and NA considers problematic or
to be signs of mental illnesses. LaVey instead considers them natural and more or less human as long
as one is able to control one's desires, because according to LaVey it is exactly through liberation of
emotions and drives that one avoids obsessive or selfdestructive behavior (LaVey 1969, 81). LaVey
does not wish to eliminate these “hangups,” but instead wants to transform them to “hangons,” that
is, activities that supplement an individual's personality and contribute to the individual's satisfaction.
The only problem, according to LaVey, is the shame that society attributes to the use of alcohol or
fetishes, and the exercise is not about changing behavior but in not feeling shameful (Lyons 1970,
178). LaVey's criticism of established society and his view of human nature is thus based on LaVey's
interpretation of contemporary psychology, but with emphasis on each person's own right to define
what is best to him or her.
7.2 The Actualized Self
As was explained in the previous section, LaVey's considers the authentic self to be devoid of inhibi
tions and guilt, involving a strong and healthy ego. LaVey's concept of human nature and the special
status that he attributes to children and nonhuman animals, as well as his notion of a successful life,
provide an indication of his concept of the ideal human being.
The seventh statement of “The Nine Satanic Statements,” LaVey's condensed explanation of Satanism,
explains that:
Satan represents man as just another animal, sometimes better, more often worse than those that
walk on all-fours, who, because of his “divine spiritual and intellectual development,” has be-
come the most vicious animal of all! (LaVey 1969, 25).
The notion that humans are animals like all others and thus can be understood on the same premises as
other animals, combined with the assumption that our intellect introduces all kinds of problems, is fun
damental to LaVey's view of humans. LaVey's understanding of the human animal is inspired by Dar
win, among others, but it is the sociologist Herbert Spencer that applied Darwin's theory on human in
teractions and, ignoring Darwin's objections, created the social Darwinism hypothesis, who appears on
the Church of Satan's reading list (Barton 1990, 163) and who may have influenced LaVey more than
did Darwin. LaVey does not attribute any negative qualities to the carnal element that might somehow
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 10
oppose a spiritual self, but it is not the “Disneyesque” concept that is found on some NA circles. Hu
mans are animals according to LaVey with all that implies, and as such is an integral part of nature. If
humans are not always kind and gentle, but also driven by hate and aggression, then it is not because
there is anything wrong with humans, or because humans are different from other animals; it is be
cause humans live in a dangerous and brutal world. Hate and aggression are not wrong or undesired
feelings but are necessary and advantageous for survival. This brutal interpretation of mankind and the
world is emphasized in the first section of The Satanic Bible, where LaVey includes an edited except
of the book Might Is Right. This except declares that: “Blessed are the strong, for they shall possess
the earth—Cursed are the weak, for they shall inherit the yoke!” (LaVey 1969, 34). This excerpt was
in part meant to provoke and challenge the reader (Redbeard 1996, 3ff) but it also reflects the social
Darwinism and cynicism that LaVey gathered from people such as Herbert Spencer, Friedrich Niet
zsche, and Ayn Rand. LaVey's social Darwinistic leanings are also found in his understanding of the
human evolution, which he believes is on its way to unseen heights: where children of the past were
born to work in the fields and in the factories, today human quality has become more important than
quantity, and in the future LaVey expects one child that can create to be more important than two that
can manufacture, and more than fifty that can believe (LaVey 1972, 12). LaVey not only supports eu
genics but also expects it to be a necessity in the future—not to produce a specific race or a specific
look, but to create physically and mentally healthy and creative individuals. According to LaVey's
daughter Zeena Schreck's preface to The Satanic Witch, the book is in part intended as a guide to eu
genics or “selective breeding” (LaVey 1989, II), a subject that LaVey himself also discusses, and
which seems to serve two goals: firstly, he encourages women to find partners that are their psychical
and mental opposites because he considers the “attraction of opposites” to be a fundamental mecha
nism of nature to avoid inbreeding and promote healthy individuals (ibid, 62). Secondly, the book is
largely a guide to finding the right husband, and according to LaVey, men and women come in varying
quality. Rephrasing Crowley's statement that “everyone is a star,” LaVey agrees that anyone may be a
star, but Crowley and others forget that stars come in different sizes (ibid, 192).
In addition to serving as a foundation for an understanding of human nature, children and animals rep
resent an ideal that LaVey refers to as “the purest form of carnal existence” (LaVey 1969, 89) and as
creatures that are sacred to Satanists which Satanists would never harm on purpose. Children and ani
mals are described as “natural magicians” that Satanists may learn from, because children and animals
do not deny their natural desires and drives and are thus better suited for the pursuit of their goals
(LaVey 1969, 89, 122. 1979, 74). The special status attributed to children is also illustrated in the dif
ference between adult and child baptisms: the adult symbolically casts off the falsehoods, hypocrisy
and shame of the past, but the child is celebrated as a perfect being. The child baptism is only intended
for children under four years of age, as older children are assumed to have been influenced by ideas
that are alien to the Satanic philosophy (LaVey 1972, 205).
It is also within children and animals that LaVey finds values such as emotional spontaneity and au
thenticity, uninhibitedness, fantasy, superior senses, naturalness in terms of one's own needs, and the
absence of socially induced neuroses, guilt, and shame. Many of these qualities are more difficult to
find among adults than among children, because of man's “divine spiritual and intellectual develop
ment,” which accoring to LaVey has made humans “the most vicious animal of all” (LaVey 1969, 25).
Nonetheless, LaVey appears to be somewhat undecided on his stance towards the intellect: our intel
lect may be the root of many of our problems, but our intellect is also the source of rationality and cre
ativity that LaVey stresses in his deep respect for artists and scientists, and in his tribute to the children
of the future that will create rather than produce or believe. In addition, rationality, logic and science
are considered the Satanist's weapons against Christianity and other religions, and Satan is described
as “the spirit of progress, the inspirer of all great movements that contribute to the development of civ
ilization and the advancement of mankind” and is connected with qualities such as creativity and en
lightenment (LaVey 1972, 77). In addition, intellect and creativity are highly present in the successful
human being that—in departure from the philosophical ideal that is exemplified by children and ani
mals—is the actual or realistic ideal that is used to measure people's success. LaVey declares in The
Satanic Bible that the philosophy and techniques described in the book are the same as those applied
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 11
by the most selfrealized and powerful people in the world, providing examples of financial experts,
industrialists, popes, poets, dictators, opinion shapers, etc. (LaVey 1969, 104). This referral to earthly
success as a measure of worth is repeated in several places, including The Satanic Witch, where the
competent witch is identified by her ability to find the right husband, the better job, to avoid unwanted
pregnancy, and in general to lead a competent life (LaVey 1989, 3) rather than by her “spiritual val
ues.” As will be discussed in the next section, LaVey's religious techniques are aimed at attaining these
and other mundane goals.
7.3 Liberating Magic
LaVey refers to his techniques for changing and improving people and their environments as magic
and defines magic as “[t]he change in situations or events in accordance with one's will, which would,
using normally accepted methods, be unchangeable” (LaVey 1969, 110). This leaves room for inter
pretation that is not narrowed by LaVey's explanation of magic as including a portion of applied psy
chology described in “magical terms,” combined with a rest that cannot (yet) be explained scientifi
cally (ibid, 119). This description of magic makes it difficult to determine when LaVey believes to be
supported by psychology, and when he believes to use magic in a more classical sense.
LaVey divides magic into “greater magic” and “lesser magic.” Lesser magic is LaVey's term for vari
ous types of manipulation such as body language, scents, looks, strategic flashing, etc., and it is mostly
this kind of magic that is found in The Satanic Witch. The use of lesser magic in The Satanic Witch is
derived from LaVey's “personality clock” (see Appendix 2), which is a model that divides humans into
twelve different types of people. These types combine body shape with various personality traits; for
example, the skinny “threeo'clock” is associated with abstract thinking and asocial behavior while the
chubby “nineo'clock” is associated with action rather than thinking and a sense of humor. The model
is intended to aid the witch to identify the type of her quarry. Once identified, she may apply LaVey's
principle of the “attraction of opposites” to spellbind the quarry by assuming the quarry's opposite role
in terms of personality and physique. This “role play” may imply a change of weight, hair color, gait,
voice, use of colors, name, etc. For example, if the quarry is a dominant person, the witch must be sub
missive, and if he is loud, she must be quiet. In addition to this use of the model where the goal is to
find a partner or manipulate men by attraction to the witch, the personality clock has another function
with respect to the personality of the witch herself: by finding her natural position on the clock dial,
the witch is able to change her position or perfect it. LaVey believes that if the witch perfects her type
so that hair, body shape, voice, scent, etc. harmonize, the witch will gain more interest and hence more
success. According to LaVey, his personality typification is based on models created by the psycholo
gists William Herbert Sheldon (b. 1898) and Ernst Kretschmer (b. 1888). LaVey appears to be aware
that these models have been abandoned because of lacking scientific evidence but defends his model
with references to personal experience and people that have applied the model successfully (LaVey
1989, 25f).
LaVey subdivides greater magic into rituals and ceremonies. He describes ceremonies as rites that are
intended to celebrate or remember a particular event, an aspect of life, a role model, or to declare one's
faith. Ceremonies thus concentrate on the existing, such as in the baptism rituals which differ from,
e.g., Christian baptisms in that they are intended only as symbolic acts that are not expected to cause
change. Rituals, on the other hand, are rites that are intended to cause change (LaVey 1972, 17). It is
difficult to find any clarifications on how these changes are expected to occur, however. LaVey de
scribes the rituals both as psychodramas in the psychological sense where the purpose to change the
practitioner's own psyche, and as a way to change the outside world or other people. This change is as
sumed to be caused by bioelectric energy discharged through strong emotions such as blind hate or
sexual orgasm (LaVey 1969, 88), og via deeply felt wishes, such as when a child strongly desires
something (ibid, 122). Rituals are thus intended as tools that an individual may apply therapeutically
against old problems and as a way to obtain future goals on both a psychical and a material level. An
example of the former is found in LaVey's version of “The Black Mass,” which LaVey considers a
psychodrama that is intended to free the practitioner from feelings of guilt and religious beliefs, or to
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 12
free the practitioner from unnecessary faith in contemporary dogma and values. The other type of rit
ual, which is directed at obtaining specific goals, is divided into three types by LaVey, who bases them
on feelings of lust, hate, or compassion. In each type the rituals are used to focus emotion and energy
on the desired goal, and in addition to enabling the possibility that the ritual may have the desired ef
fect, the ritual is also expected to make the practitioner function better afterwards because the pentup
emotions have been released. That is, if a hate ritual does not kill the victim, at least the Satanist's ag
gressions have been released, and the Satanist can get on with his or her life.
LaVey's rituals are somewhat difficult to analyze as rituals in a classical sense. LaVey himself sees
many similarities between his own rites (and perhaps in particular the ceremonies) and modern theatri
cal plays, and he also feels a need to distinguish them from contemporary encounter groups.3 LaVey
believed that Satanism fills an important void between psychology and religion, because psychology
did not meet the human need for rituals and dogma (LaVey 1969, 52f). In the context of this goal and
the desired function of the rituals, LaVey's rituals are perhaps better understood as therapeutic tech
niques than as classic, religious rituals. This view is supported by the role that LaVey ascribes to
magic in practice: magic may be a powerful tool, but LaVey stresses that success is not achieved by
positive thinking alone; a combination of positive thoughts and positive action is required (ibid, 41). In
addition, LaVey introduces the term “the balance factor” as an ability to set realistic goals, as a key el
ement in magic (ibid, 127ff). An unknown and regular person should not expect even the most power
ful magic to suffice to attract a popular actress, and magic is not expected to help a person gain suc
cess if the person does not already have tangible talents.
7.4 The Satanic Self
The spiritual self, where the spiritual or divine has fused with the self, is a central theme in selfspiritu
ality. In LaVey's Satanism the relationship between self and divinity is not trivial, however. To begin
with, LaVey appears to be using several different concepts of the divine and its relationship to life
without attempting to unify them. The divine is thus described both as nonexistent, as a kind of force
in nature, as a symbol, and as a person's own ego. Furthermore, the rituals provide ample opportunity
for a theistic view of Satan and other beings. This wide array of options has later been narrowed by
LaVey and the Church of Satan after the theistic Temple of Set broke off from the Church of Satan in
1975 and the Church of Satan felt compelled to clarify that it is founded on atheism. Beyond this clari
fication, the Church of Satan has encouraged its members to find each their own concept of Satan, and
today there are many different interpretations of Satan among Satanists that have been inspired by
LaVey (Lewis 2001:8f).
LaVey rejects the existence of all gods by default. To LaVey, gods are an externalization of the human
ego which was created because humans would not acknowledge their egos and instead placed their
forbidden wishes in the hands of their gods. The gods are thus created in man's image rather than vice
versa, and by worshiping the gods of the existing religions, according to LaVey one worships those
people that externalized the ego and created the god (LaVey 1969, 44f). In the same vein, LaVey inter
prets religious concepts involving the killing of a god as an expression of selfhate (ibid, 89). LaVey
believes that dogma and rituals are necessary for humans, and LaVey instead proposes that we create
gods according to our own emotional needs, or promote ourselves to gods, so that the worship of gods
becomes egoaffirming rather than egosuppressing. He believes that the externalized gods thus be
come internalized, and that humans will realize that there never was a difference between the spiritual
and the physical worlds, which had at all times been physical only (ibid 44f, 96). The concept of the
spiritual existing as something independently of the body is thus rejected, and the role as god does not
imply any divine characteristics, except the right to define good and evil, and as the state of each per
son being the most important person to himself or herself—the importance of which is shown by se
lecting the Satanist's birthday as the most important holiday (ibid, 96). LaVey's Satanism can thus be
considered a pure veneration of the ego where gods are not united with the ego but rather replaced by
it. At the same time, it is Satan (and other demonic entities) that are addressed in the actual rituals, and
3 Encounter groups is a form of group therapy that was developed by the humanistic psychologist Carl Rogers.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 13
it is Satan that is associated with a set of values and qualities in “The Nine Satanic Statements” that
LaVey considers material to Satanism. As such, the rituals can be seen both as a celebration of the per
son's ego and the Satanic values, and as a celebration of an idealized self.
Other concepts indicate theistic leanings: the gods are rejected as an externalization of the human ego,
but LaVey states that it is wrong to believe that Satanists do not believe in god. Instead, Satanists be
lieve in god as a dark force that permeates and balances nature, and which can neither be explained
nor used by religion or science, and which is too impersonal to care about life on Earth (ibid, 40, 62).
This dark (presumably meaning “unknown”) force appears to be connected with Satan, but it does not
appear to play an independent role, perhaps because the divine is defined as something that has no
practical implications for the earthly life that occupies LaVey. LaVey's Satanism thus includes a vari
ety of characteristics that indicate spiritual leanings, but in practice it is the material and utilitaristic
facets that dominate.
8. Summary
LaVey believes that his Satanism distinguishes itself from other religions by focusing on the physical
instead of the spiritual. In contrast to NA, LaVey does not consider humans as spiritual beings or as
possessing a duality between body and soul, but as an animal, for better or for worse. LaVey's under
standing of the divine is open to a wide array of possible interpretations, however, which harmonize
with those interpretations that are found in the less spiritual segments of NA and HPM, where the di
vine is seen as a person's true self, cosmic energy, or other forms of immanent perceptions of the di
vine.
Children and animals occupy a special place in Satanism because of their unspoiled nature while
LaVey, similarly to NA, considers the adult person's intellect to be problematic. In spite of the intellec
t's ability to lead humans astray from its carnal nature, it is the same intellect that LaVey cherishes
when he stresses man's rationality and creativity, and unlike NA, LaVey sees indulgence, material suc
cess, and power as the highest goals.
Unlike NA and HPM in general, LaVey does not consider Eastern spirituality a viable alternative to
the established religions, and is generally highly critical towards other religious and spiritual groups
and techniques. He explains his own use of religious techniques instead of psychological methods in
his solution by arguing that these techniques are used consciously, because humans need rituals and
dogma, and that psychology does not meet this demand. LaVey's use of magic can thus be seen as
therapeutic rather than religious; however, this view is refuted when LaVey attempts to borrow scien
tific authority for the magical processes; for example, by including theories about bioelectrical energy
to explain how magic works. The tendency to attribute a magical effect to mechanisms that presum
ably are psychological is a characteristic of the segment of selfspirituality that Heelas terms “the pros
perity wing.” LaVey's Satanism fits into this segment in particular because the goal of magic is non
spiritual, and instead seeks to liberate the practitioners from their inhibitions to develop their potential
and thus obtain their goals of power and influence.
LaVey shares NA's and HPM's view of humans as inhibited and damaged by external and internalized
moral concepts that have been induced by culture and established religions. LaVey's view of the ego is
uncharacteristic of NA and HPM, however, part of the reason being that LaVey has a different concept
of the nature of the ego. LaVey wishes to liberate humans from their inhibitions, but it is not the ego as
such that poses a problem, as he finds it necessary to maintain a strong and healthy ego. LaVey's solu
tion is not to let go of the ego, but rather to repair the damages done to it. This view lies closer to the
HPM concept of the authentic self than the NA notion of the spiritual self, even if LaVey's social Dar
winistic definition of the authentic self is less peaceful than imagined by the humanistic psychologists.
LaVey primarily distinguishes himself from the general traits of NA and HPM through his use of sci
ence to legitimize his views. This appeal to scientific authority appears to be an nonbinding, ideologi
cal argument, however, as he often favors personal experience and preference. Examples of this can be
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 14
found in terms of sexual preferences, or in his weighing of personal experience when magic conflicts
with scientific facts. He thus shares his use of personal experience as the higher authority against sci
entific facts with HPM and NA, and his use of obsolete or controversial science as authority is also
commonly found in NA.
My analysis indicates that although LaVey's Satanism is clearly consistent with general characteristics
of worldaffirming HPM and selfspirituality NA, the Devil's in the details in terms of some significant
differences. Most importantly, LaVey's Satanism is largely materialistic and antispiritual, and em
braces the ego rather than attempts to suppress it.
9. Recategorization as the Prosperity Wing
I introduced my analysis by asking the question: “How does Anton LaVey describe human nature; and
how does this description harmonize with general tendencies within the Human Potential Movement
and Heelas' term, selfspirituality?” Both NA and HPM are terms that are applied to a variety of diffe
rent groups, activities, techniques, etc. that share certain similarities. One should expect to find both si
milarities and differences when compared with Anton LaVey's Satanism, and this proved to be the
case.
It is meaningful to categorize LaVey's early Satanism as a selfspirituality group based on the general
differences and similarities between LaVey's Satanism and NA and HPM. However, it seems relevant
and important to further categorize LaVey's Satanism as “the prosperity wing,” as this placement ex
plains many of the differences between LaVey's Satanism and the general characteristics of selfspiri
tuality. It is also meaningful to categorize LaVey's Satanism as HPM, but since HPM largely overlaps
with the less spiritual segment of selfspirituality where the prosperity wing is also found, the catego
rization as a part of the HPM in addition to the prosperity wing does not offer enough additional in
sights into LaVey's Satanism to warrant a dual categorization.
LaVey's Satanism has traditionally been grouped with modern witchcraft and occultism. However, the
meaningful categorization as part of “the prosperity wing” indicates that comparisons with related
groups may rather be found in the selfhelp literature and groups that focus on improving human inter
action and psychological techniques aimed at meeting material goals. A more thorough examination of
LaVey's Satanism would encompass additional elements of his worldview, and would take into ac
count the development of LaVey's writing since the early Church of Satan to the period where LaVey
witnessed the decentralization of Satanism, changes in the religious landscape, and the failing disap
pearance of Christianity that he predicted in The Satanic Rituals.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 15
Sources
Aagaard, Jesper Petersen
2002 Binary Satanism: The Construction of Community in a Digital World, SYZYGY, vol. 11
2005 Modern Satanism: Dark Doctrines and Black Flames in Controversial New Religions, Ox
ford University Press, New York.
Aldridge, Alan
2000 Religion in the Contemporary World, Polity Press, Cambridge.
Alfred, Randall H.
2008 The Church of Satan in James R. Lewis & Jesper Aagaard Petersen, eds., The Encyclopedic
Sourcebook of Satanism, Prometheus Books, New York.
Batchelor, Oliver
2002 Satanisterne organiserer sig, in Nordjyske stiftstidende, Mondag July 22, p. 5.
Bovbjerg, Kirsten Marie
2001 Følsomhedens etik: tilpasning af personligheden i New Age og moderne management, Hov
edland.
Bromley, David G. (Ed.)
1991 The satanism scare, Aldine De Gruyter, New York.
Barton, Blanche
1990 The Church of Satan, Hell's Kitchen Productions, Inc., New York.
Dyrendal, Asbjørn
2007 Satanismens historie, i Humanist no. 1, 2007.
Harvey, Graham
1995 Satanism in Britain Today, Journal of Contemporary Religion, Vol. 10, No. 3.
Hammer, Olav
1997 På jagt efter helheden. New Age – En ny folketro?, Fremad, Århus.
Heelas, Paul
1996 Chapter 1 Manifestations & Chapter 6 Certainties of Modernity in The New Age Movement,
Blackwell Publishers Ltd., Oxford.
LaVey, Anton Szandor
1969* The Satanic Bible, Avon Books, New York.
1972* The Satanic Rituals, Avon Books, New York.
1989 The Satanic Witch, Feral House, Portland.
La Fontaine, Jean
1999 Satanism and Satanic Mythology, in Witchcraft and Magic in Europe: The Twentieth Cen-
tury, The Athlone Press, London.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 16
Lap, Amina
2002 Dansk satanisme, Satanisk Bulletin, No. 7.
Lewis, James R.
2001 Who Serves Satan? A Demographic and Ideological Profile, Marburg Journal of Religion,
Vol. 6, No. 2.
2002 Diabolical Authority: Anton LaVey, The Satanic Bible and the Satanist “Tradition”, Mar-
burg Journal of Religion, Vol. 7, No. 1.
Lewis, R. James & Petersen, Jesper Aagaard (eds.)
2008 The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism, Prometheus Books, New York.
Lyons, Arthur
1970 The Second Coming: Satanism in America, Dodd, Mead & Company, New York.
Mathisen, Stian
2008 Et helvetes forskningsprosjekt, Under Dusken, January 28, 2008, http://www.under
dusken.no/nyhet/2008/1/437814/et+helvetes+forskningsprosjekt, downloaded on April 3,
2008.
Melton, J. Gordon
1997 Modern Alternative Religions in the West in Handbook of living religions, John R. Hinnells
(ed.), Blackwell Publishers Ltd, Cambridge.
Moody, Edward J.
2008 Magical Therapy – An antropological investigation of contemporary satanism in James R.
Lewis & Jesper Aagaard Petersen, eds., The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism,
Prometheus Books, New York.
Puttick, Elizabeth
2000 Personal Development: the Spiritualisation and Secularisation of the Human Potential
Movement in Steven Sutcliffe & Marion Bowman (ed.) Beyond New Age. Exploring Alterna-
tive Spirituality, Edinburgh University Press, Edinburgh.
Redbeard, Ragnar
1996 Might is Right, M.H.P. & Co., Ltd, Chicago.
Schultz, Duane P. & Schultz, Sydney Ellen
2004 A History of Modern Psychology, 8. udgave, Thomson & Wadsworth, Belmont.
Stone, Donald
1976 The Human Potential Movement in Charles Y. Glock & Robert N. Bellah (ed.) The New Re-
ligious Consciousness”, University of California Press, Berkeley.
Wallis, Roy
1985 The Dynamics of Change in the Human Potential Movement in Rodney Stark (ed.) Religious
Movements: Genesis, Exodus, and Numbers, Paragon House Publishers, New York.
(*) These books do not include information on the publication year. However, the edition of The Sa-
tanic Bible quoted in this article includes a preface by Burton H. Wolfe that is dated December 1976
whereas the original 1969 edition had a different preface.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 17
Appendix 1: Bibliography of Significant Research
Chronologically Ordered:
(1970) Lyons, Arthur: The Second Coming: Satanism in America.
(1971) Lyons, Arthur: Satan Wants You: The Cult of Devil Worship in America.
(1974) Moody , Edward J.: Magical Therapy – An antropological investigation of contemporary
satanism. Reprinted in The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism 2008.
(1976) Alfred, Randall H.: The Church of Satan. Reprinted in The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Sa-
tanism 2008.
(1991) Bromley, David G. (Ed). The satanism scare.
(1995) Lowney, Kathleen S.: Teenage Satanism as Oppositional Youth Subculture. Reprinted in
The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism 2008.
Bromley, David G., og Susan Ainsley: Satanism and Satanic Churches: The Contemporary
Incarnations in America's Alternative Religions.
(1997) Melton, J. Gordon Modern Alternative Religions in the West in Handbook of living reli-
gions.
(1999) Wium-Andersen, Dorit: Moderne satanisme in Nye religiøse bevægelser i Danmark.
Gads Religionsleksikon: Definitions of “Church of Satan” and “Satanisme”.
Gavin, Baddeley: Lucifer Rising: Sin, Devil Worship and Rock 'n' Roll.
La Fontaine, Jean: Satanism and Satanic Mythology, Witchcraft and Magic in Europe: The
Twentieth Century.
(2001) Hermonen, Merja: Rationalistic Satanism. The Individual as a Member of a Countercul-
tural Tribe. Reprinted in The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism 2008.
Lewis, James R.: Who Serves Satan? A Demographic and Ideological Profile, Marburg
Journal of Religion, Vol. 6, No. 2.
Lewis, James R.: Satanism Today. (Dictionary of groups, people popular cultre, etc.)
(2002) Lewis, James R.: Diabolical Authority: Anton LaVey, The Satanic Bible and the Satanist
“Tradition”. Reprinted in The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism 2008.
SYZYGY special edition on Satanism, including Petersen, Jesper Aagaard: Binary Sa-
tanism: The Construction of Community in a Digital World. Other articles reprinted.
(2003) Drury, Nevill: Magic and Witchcraft.
(2004) Dyrendal, Asbjørn: Et satans mannfolk: Den autoriserte Anton LaVey in DIN no. 23.
Dyrendal, Asbjørn: Satanisme – En innføring in DIN no. 4.
Fibiger, Marianne C. Qvortrup: Satanisk Forum, Eclipse in Religiøs mangfoldighed.
(2005) Aagaard, Jesper Petersen: Modern Satanism: Dark Doctrines and Black Flames in Con-
troversial New Religions.
Dyrendal, Asbjørn: Satanisme og populærkultur in DIN no. 34.
(2007) Dyrendal, Asbjørn: Satanismens historie in Humanist no. 1, 2007 p. 433.
(2008) Lewis, R. James & Petersen, Jesper Aagaard: The Encyclopedic Sourcebook of Satanism.
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 18
Appendix 2: The Nine Satanic Statements
1. Satan represents indulgence, instead of abstinence!
2. Satan represents vital existence, instead of spiritual pipe dreams!
3. Satan represents undefiled wisdom, instead of hypocritical selfdeceit!
4. Satan represents kindness to those who deserve it, instead of love wasted on ingrates!
5. Satan represents vengeance, instead of turning the other cheek!
6. Satan represents responsibility to the responsible, instead of concern for psychic vampires!
7. Satan represents man as just another animal, sometimes better, more often worse than those
that walk on allfours, who, because of his “divine spiritual and intellectual development,” has
become the most vicious animal of all!
8. Satan represents all of the socalled sins, as they all lead to physical, mental, or emotional
gratification!
9. Satan has been the best friend the church has ever had, because he has kept it in business all
these years!
Amina Olander Lap 2008

Categorization of Modern Satanism—An Analysis of LaVey's Early Writings Page 19
Appendix 3: The LaVey Personality Synthesizer
Amina Olander Lap 2008
