Exposing Spiritual
Witchcraft
B r e a k i n g C o n t r o l l i n g P o w e r s
by
JONAS CLARK
A S P I R I T O F L I F E C L A S S I C

Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version. Others
from The Amplified Bible, Copyright © 1954, 1958 by The Lockman
Foundation, La Habra, California.
EXPOSING SPIRITUAL WITCHCRAFT
ISBN-10:1-886885-00-1
ISBN-13:978-1-886885-00-4
Copyright © 1995 by Jonas Clark
Revised 2003
Published by Spirit of Life Publishing
27 West Hallandale Beach Blvd.
Hallandale Beach, Florida 33009-5437, U. S. A.
(954) 456-4420
www.JonasClark.com
Printed in India
07 08 09 " 07 06 05 04 03 02
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a
retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording,
scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section
107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act,
without the prior written permission of the Publisher.
Requests to the Publisher for permission should be
addressed to the Permissions Department, Jonas Clark
Ministries, 27 West Hallandale Beach Blvd., Hallandale
Beach, Fla. 33009, Call 954-456-4420, email:
office@jonasclark.com.


ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Jonas Clark is a refreshing voice and a champion
in the contemporary church. Jonas served God for
more than two decades as a pastor, teacher and
evangelist before the Lord called him to his role as
an apostle in the end time church.
An evangelist at heart, Jonas travels around the
world preaching the Gospel with a bold apostolic
anointing. Fortitude and God’s grace have taken his
ministry into more than 25 countries, where he
delivers a message of salvation, healing, deliverance
and apostolic reformation. His passion is to win lost
souls for Jesus Christ and equip every believer to
take the Good News into the harvest fields to fulfill
the Great Commission.
Jonas is the founder of The Global Cause
Network, an international network of believers and
Champion partners united to build a platform for the
apostolic voice. He also heads Spirit of Life
Ministries, a multi-cultural, non-denominational
church in Hallandale Beach, Florida.
Jonas is the publisher of The Voice magazine, a
media platform Advancing Christian Life and
Culture.
5

Dedicated to Natalie
“The future is your greatest adventure.”
Love Dad

Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith
Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled
again with the yoke of bondage.
Galatians 5:1 KJV

CONTENTS
Introduction......................................................11
Chapter One
Weapons of Witchcraft.......................................13
You can take control of your life but you have
to defeat the spirit of witchcraft first.
Chapter Two
Witchcraft’s Control..........................................25
Witchcraft needs to separate and isolate its
victim from the influence of friends and family
in order to be most effective.
Chapter Three
Witchcraft’s Hidden Agenda..............................37
Witchcraft uses false prophecy, dreams and
visions to deceive and control others.
Chapter Four
Prophetic Witchcraft.........................................49
The characteristics of prophetic witchcraft are
betrayal, lying, compromise, avoidance of
confrontation of sin and an unclean spirit.
Chapter Five
Warning Signs...................................................61
There is a demonic road to deception where
jealousy, fear, spiritual pride and hidden
agendas rule.
Chapter Six
Road to Deception.............................................71
One of the quickest ways to enter witchcraft’s
deception is by failing to submit to the
spiritual leadership in your local church.
Chapter Seven
Religious Witchcraft..........................................79

The road sign that reads “Beware Religious
Activity” is the brightest and stands out most
of all in terms of warnings down the road to
witchcraft. Those who travel past it enter the
perils of deception.
Chapter Eight
Rebellion...........................................................91
Witchcraft will murder anybody whom it views
as a threat to its hidden agenda. Whenever
someone tries to manipulate another for the
purpose of advancing a selfish agenda that is
witchcraft.
Chapter Nine
Imaginations and Witchcraft...........................107
Witchcraft plants seeds of deception in the
mind through vain imaginations. The release
of those imaginations causes confusion,
which is a sure sign of witchcraft’s influence.
Chapter Ten
Out of Control.................................................117
Now lets look at some powerful ways to
protect ourselves from the attacks of
witchcraft.
Conclusion......................................................131
Prayer.............................................................133
Letters and Testimonies..................................135
Invitation to Destiny.......................................139


INTRODUCTION
here are spiritual forces of witchcraft working to
destroy our marriages, families, relationships,
ministries, faith and churches. When we talk about
witchcraft, people often think of an old hag with a
big wart on her nose riding on a broom. They may
even imagine an African witch doctor, but that is not
what we are referring to when we talk about
witchcraft.
T
That said, we are all being exposed to forces of
witchcraft that can match the power of any tribal
witch doctor. I know this sounds almost
unfathomable to some, but we need the ability to
discern the devil’s devices at work against us and
learn how to effectively conquer the release of any
demonic assignments.
Witchcraft has sabotaged the lives of many
believers. Scripture teaches that we are in a spiritual
war,
For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but
against principalities, against powers, against the
rulers of the darkness of this world, against
spiritual wickedness in high places.
Ephesians 6:12 KJV
We are not wrestling against flesh and blood, but
against supernatural powers that cannot be seen
with natural eyes. Many Christians, however, are
void of spiritual discernment and are, in fact, carnal
in their understanding of the spiritual activity
around them. God doesn’t want believers to be
without spiritual understanding of demonic activity.
Scripture teaches us of a lifestyle of faith and
11

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
spiritual discernment for every believer. Witchcraft is
a real force and Jesus has given power to every
believer to break free from its deceiving clutch.
One year I fought this spirit from April to
November and won—so can you! My prayer is that
this book ministers to you.
Your partner,
Jonas Clark
12

ONE
1 WEAPONS OF WITCHCRAFT
You can take control of your life but you have to
defeat the spirit of witchcraft first.
onfusion, emotional manipulation,
inattentiveness, and probing the soul for
information are all common weapons witchcraft uses
to control the believer. We are all attacked by the
powers of witchcraft, yet with scriptural
understanding of your God-given rights you can
defeat its purpose every time.
C
FOR FREEDOM’S SAKE
In freedom Christ has made us free [and
completely liberated us]; stand fast then, and do not
be hampered and held ensnared and submit again
to a yoke of slavery [which you have once put off].
Galatians 5:1 AMP
This scripture makes it clear that Jesus has freed
us from the bondage of witchcraft. It is important to
thoroughly understand this scripture because the
spirit of witchcraft craves to enslave those who are
ignorant to these words of truth. Witchcraft has a
field day with those who don’t know their rights as
children of God. You have to declare this scripture
over your life and know its truth: For freedom’s sake
He has made us free by completely removing sin and
Satan’s right to put a yoke of any kind on us—
including witchcraft’s control.
13

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Once you have an understanding of your God-
given rights and position in Christ, the next step in
defeating witchcraft is to understand its weapons
because if you don’t understand the weapons then
you won’t know when you are under attack. In fact,
many people, unknowingly, have been influenced by
witchcraft at some time in their lives. Witchcraft
often manifests itself in a feeling that there is
something wrong but an inability to put one’s finger
on just exactly what it is. Because witchcraft will
attack the innocent, it is important that we learn
some Biblical truths to aid us in recognizing its
demonic assignments.
Understanding that witchcraft affects the
spiritual climate around us is one important key.
SPIRITUAL CLIMATES
My first encounter with witchcraft was as a
young, innocent child. Someone that I loved dearly
had a strange air about him. When he entered the
room I remember feeling an eerie presence come in
with him. I could sense the spiritual climate in the
room change from peaceful to nervous and edgy. So
objectionable was the change that it would get
everyone’s attention. Back then I didn’t know what it
was and I couldn’t explain it either. I simply knew
that something was not right because his presence
made me feel so uncomfortable. That presence
attacked my peace and offered me confusion in
return. I didn’t understand it then like I do now, but
I can tell you it wasn’t very pleasant.
Some of you have had similar experiences. You
knew that something was wrong, too, but you
couldn’t express or pinpoint the reason for your
feelings. We can begin to put some of those feelings
into words by looking at some distinctive character
14

Weapons of Witchcraft
traits and weapons of witchcraft. The following list is
designed to help you grasp a better understanding of
witchcraft’s operations.
CHAOS
The first on our list of witchcraft weapons is
chaos.
Chaos, in essence, means a complete lack of
peace. When witchcraft is operating there is a
release of chaos, confusion and turmoil. Scripture
declares:
For God is not the author of confusion, but of
peace, as in all churches of the saints.
1 Corinthians 14:33 KJV
When witchcraft enters the room it comes in like
a whirlwind, releasing a cloud of confusion and
chaos. Witchcraft operates best in a whirlwind that
gets everyone on edge, stirred up and—at each
others’ throats.
There are sorcerers in India that use a form of
witchcraft called Chaotic Magic. Chaotic Magic is a
method of sorcery that is designed to release
witchcraft and create havoc. Sorcerers intentionally
send chaos, which is released through words for the
purpose of controlling those at whom it is released.
While witchcraft can target anyone, there are
certain character traits that seem to invite witchcraft
assignments. Have you ever met someone who had a
helter-skelter air about them? Who seemed
constantly disordered and confused? Who lacked a
sense of order in their lives? I am talking about
those who aren’t sober-minded or stable, but are
extremely unbalanced and flaky. People with those
character traits are prime targets for witchcraft’s
operations.
15

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
People who fall under the spell of witchcraft are
recognizable by the chaos and confusion prevalent in
their lives. In fact, they suffer from such strong
confusion that they have a compelling need for
others to take control of their lives and tell them
what to do—witchcraft is glad to oblige.
INATTENTIVENESS
Another weapon of spiritual witchcraft is
inattentiveness.
It is difficult to hold the attention of people under
the influence of witchcraft. You could be talking with
them and, suddenly, they start searching through
their purse or combing their hair, not paying one bit
of attention to what you are saying. As their mind
drifts away they think about everything but your
conversation. They just can’t seem to get a grip on
their minds. I remember a time when I was talking to
a person over bagels and coffee. Without prompting,
she got up from the table and walked away in a daze.
It was a strange thing to watch this person float out
there into spiritual space land.
That’s not to say that people who fall under the
spell of witchcraft lack intelligence. Many times
people under the assignment of witchcraft are
indeed very intelligent. They look good and sound
good, but at times are not stable when they are
under the spiritual influence of witchcraft. In fact,
they often act like schizophrenics (without hearing
voices) because they are with you one minute,
holding a relatively intelligent conversation, and the
next minute they have drifted out into wonder,
wonder land.
STRONG CONFUSION
16

Weapons of Witchcraft
A third weapon of spiritual witchcraft is strong
confusion.
Witchcraft can be accurately described as a
spiritual force that releases strong confusion against
one’s mind. One time I was engaged in such intense
spiritual warfare with witchcraft, and was hit so
hard in my mind, that I could hardly remember my
own name. It was at that time that God opened my
understanding as to how strong the spirit of
witchcraft can be. In an effort to get my act together
I went into my hotel room, got down on my knees
and plead the blood of Jesus over my mind. After
about thirty minutes of strong intercession I was
able to pray through and break its influence.
QUESTIONS
Witchcraft always releases confusion against
your mind. I’ve developed these questions to help
you discern the workings of spiritual witchcraft.
 Have you ever been overcome by a strong sense
of confusion?
 Do you know anyone who enters the room in a
spiritual whirlwind?
 Have you ever tried to hold a conversation with
someone who continued to drift away?
 Do you ever find yourself unable to listen to
someone who is talking to you?
 Do you struggle to remain focused because
your mind wants to wander?
PROBING THE SOUL
Often overlooked, probing the soul for
information (particularly hurts, wounds, scars,
17

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
discouragement and rebellion) is another weapon of
spiritual witchcraft.
Scripture teaches us not to be ignorant of Satan’s
ministry. If we are ignorant, then he can cause us a
variety of problems. The Apostle Paul warns,
Lest Satan should get an advantage of us: for
we are not ignorant of his devices
2 Corinthians 2:11 KJV
Satan knows what he is doing and has various
strategies to accomplish his ministry. Satan,
oftentimes, will go back to the same weapons that
have previously worked in your life. One of his
techniques involves using people you know to probe
your soul.
To understand how this works, we need to know
that God created us as three-part beings: spirit, soul
and body. Your soul is your mind, will, intellect,
reasoning, imaginations and emotions.
And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly;
and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body
be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord
Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 5:23 KJV
Remember that the spirit of witchcraft’s purpose
is to advance its own causes while controlling you.
Witchcraft will try to infiltrate your life through your
emotions. A person operating through witchcraft
might approach you and begin to probe a particular
area of your life with many questions. They might
ask things like, “How is your family doing? Oh, your
poor mother. I know you are very concerned about
her.” Or, “I heard that you were having problems in
your marriage. Can I help you with anything? How
are your children? Are you sure everything is
alright?” Excessive use of the question, “Is every
18

Weapons of Witchcraft
thing alright?” is a sure indication of witchcraft’s
probing.
All this might sound like a nice faithful friend
trying to console you. And that may even be the
case, but it is the spirit behind the many probing
questions that we must discern. Are the questions
coming out of a true concern, or, are they probing
your soul looking for a way in? Ask yourself what the
motivation is. Witchcraft spirits will gather as much
information, (especially the “dirty laundiy”) as they
can to use against you at a later date.
PULLING ON THE EMOTIONS
Witchcraft knows how to pull on and manipulate
your emotions—and use them as a weapon against
you.
When God deals with you, it is from Spirit to
spirit—not Spirit to soul (John 4:24). The spirit of
witchcraft works best by pulling on your emotions. It
uses various strategies, sometimes even shedding
tears. Witchcraft will cry with you if that is what it
takes to pierce your emotions and hook your soul, so
even tears must be discerned.
Witchcraft will probe your emotions searching for
a successful gateway into your soul. Witchcraft also
searches for pride in you. It looks for pride by sweet
talk, flattery and feeding your ego.
If probing your emotions doesn’t work, witchcraft
won’t give up. It will look for other ways in. Maybe
glitter, glamour or Hollywood Christianity will bait
you. Maybe renting a limousine and treating you like
royalty will enable it to pull on your emotions. Or, as
I mentioned, perhaps weeping, sobbing or crying
with you at a weak point in your life will do the trick.
Regardless of its reasoning, witchcraft wants to work
19

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
itself into the emotional areas of your life in an effort
to control you.
Emotional manipulation is a common form of
witchcraft. The boy who continues to tell the girl how
beautiful she is and how much he loves her—until,
is a form of witchcraft. The con man that builds your
trust and confidence until the day he steals your
money is operating in witchcraft. The person that
gives you a gift and threatens to take it back if you
don’t obey is operating in witchcraft.
In all likelihood, there is a spiritual force called
witchcraft trying to control your life right now. If this
spirit can get you thinking about you, your plans,
your aspirations, your purposes, your ministry, etc.,
then it can get you off of what God wants to do in
your life. So be on guard against emotional
manipulation and unnatural attempts to probe your
soul.
SOULISH MANIPULATION
Soulish manipulation is yet another weapon in
witchcraft’s arsenal.
Do you remember the story of Esau, Isaac’s first-
born son? He was entitled to receive God’s great
blessing but he was so was controlled by hunger
(flesh) that he gave up his birthright for a single
meal. Later in the scriptures we see Esau using
tears in an effort to get his birthright back. God saw
through the ploy and it didn’t work. However, if Esau
were alive today, many of us would give him back his
birthright. Why? Because his tears would pull on
our emotions and we would be manipulated and feel
sorry for him. Esau’s tears would emotionally
manipulate us and cause us to lose our spiritual
discernment.
20

Weapons of Witchcraft
Scripture tells us that Esau never repented for
this sin, even though he pleaded tearfully for the
return of his birthright.
Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person,
as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his
birthright. For ye know how that afterward, when he
would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected:
for he found no place of repentance, though he
sought it carefully with tears.
Hebrews 12:16-17 KJV
From this scripture we learn that spiritual
discernment does not operate through the soulish
realm. Spiritual discernment does, however, operate
in our born again spirit, but never through our
emotions. Beware of the person that tries to
manipulate you with tears—that’s witchcraft, too.
The eyes of your understanding being
enlightened; that ye may know what is the hope of
his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his
inheritance in the saints.
Ephesians 1:18 KJV
In this scripture, the Apostle Paul is referring to
spiritual understanding and knowing. It is a fact
that our minds wonder—but our spirits know.
Spiritual discernment can be blocked by soulish
compassion through the operation of witchcraft in
our emotions.
QUESTIONS
Review these questions to help you identify if
witchcraft has been released at you through the
methods we just discussed.
 Has anyone ever consoled you in your time of
need then later you found out that they were
just being nice for selfish purposes?
21

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
 Have you ever felt sorry for someone who then
took advantage of your sentiments?
 Do you try to gain the approval of someone who
abuses you?
 Would you have felt sorry for Esau and given
him back his birthright because he was crying?
 Have you ever had someone quiz you with
inappropriate questions that dealt with your
emotions?
 Has anyone ever tried to feed your ego or pride
with smooth flattering sayings?
SUMMARY
Confusion, emotional manipulation,
inattentiveness, and probing the soul for information
are all common weapons witchcraft uses to control
the believer.
Witchcraft often manifests itself in a feeling that
there is something wrong but an inability to put
one’s finger on just exactly what it is.
Witchcraft will attack your peace and offer you
confusion in return.
Excessive use of the question, “Is every thing
alright?” is a sure indication of witchcraft’s probing.
When witchcraft is operating there is a release of
chaos, confusion and turmoil.
It is difficult to hold the attention of people under
the influence of witchcraft.
Beware of the person who tries to manipulate you
with tears—that’s witchcraft.
Witchcraft can be accurately described as a
spiritual force that releases strong confusion
22

Weapons of Witchcraft
against one’s mind.
Probing the soul for information (particularly
hurts, wounds, scars, discouragement, and
rebellion) is a weapon of witchcraft.
Witchcraft will try to infiltrate your life through
your emotions.
Witchcraft knows how to pull on and manipulate
your emotions—and use them as a weapon against
you.
Spiritual discernment can be blocked by soulish
compassion through the operation of witchcraft in
our emotions.
In the next chapter we will discover how
witchcraft separates and isolates its victim from the
influence of friends and family.
23


TWO
2 WITCHCRAFT’S CONTROL
Witchcraft needs to separate and isolate its
victim from the influence of friends and family in
order to be most effective.
ne who is being controlled feels the loss of
personal identity and self-esteem. Depression
and fatigue quickly follow as the super spiritual
controller gives abnormal attention to those she
desires to manipulate.
O
SEPARATION THROUGH ISOLATION
Beware of separation through isolation.
Isolation is a solid weapon of witchcraft. It wants
to separate you from your friends, your church, or
anyone whom it perceives can speak truth into your
life. I have witnessed people that have two close,
stable friends and watched this force of wickedness
separate and isolate its victim from their comrades.
This happens when witchcraft attempts to cause
a separation from others in your life through the
introduction of strife. Your other friends are its
perceived enemies. People operating in witchcraft are
masters at pitting people against one another in
order to separate and isolate them.
This spirit will do whatever it takes to control the
environment around it. It likes to be in the limelight
of your life. A person that is humble of heart doesn’t
care about being the center of attention. They are
25

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
interested in pleasing God rather than taking front
stage. The spirit of witchcraft, in contrast, likes
abnormal attention, but most importantly, attention
behind the scenes. People operating in witchcraft
don’t want to share your attention with others but
want to keep you totally for themselves.
A person operating in the spirit of witchcraft
focuses conversations around themselves. They want
to talk about them, them, them and them. They
don’t like to talk about anybody or anything else and
as soon as you try to change the subject they will
quickly cut the conversation short. These
conversations are extremely abnormal and signify a
bizarre attempt to cut off any other relationships in
your life.
SUPER SPIRITUAL
Acting super spiritual is another tactic.
If need be, witchcraft will even get super spiritual
in effort to manipulate you. A person operating in
this spirit might even call you up and say, “I was up
all night praying for you. I just couldn’t sleep last
night. The Spirit of God just really impressed on me
to call you first thing this morning (at 6:30 a. m.)
and tell you that you need to hear from God and not
fear man.” People releasing witchcraft will often get
spiritual with you by ending their conversation
speaking in other tongues or some super spiritual
saying. They will do whatever it takes to add a
spiritual sounding punch to their manipulation.
This, too, is a form of witchcraft; especially if they
didn’t stay up all night and God wasn’t really talking
to them about you. Instead, they were probably just
up all night trying to figure out how to manipulate
you.
People who walk in witchcraft have an uppity air
26

Witchcraft’s Control
of spiritual superiority about them.
They think that they have it altogether and you
don’t. If they can get you to lose your composure
publicly by putting you on the spot, then they will.
They will push you out on the proverbial limb for all
to see. They are not necessarily flaky, but they can
act super spiritual.
One time, while overseas, I was asked about this
particular church service we attended. I said, “I
thought it was God until.” It got real quiet after I
said that. I noticed that those under the influence of
witchcraft were looking at their spiritual leader. I
asked their leader, “What did you think?” This
person looked at me directly and gave me the
deepest spiritual answer I had ever heard. His
statement was totally non-relative to our
conversation. Then he got up and left us all
pondering his great spiritual depth.
Witchcraft forces cause one to act so super
spiritual that you can’t even have a normal
conversation with them. If witchcraft can, it will get
you so far out there in spiritual wonderland that
nobody can reach you. In reality, the more spiritual
a person gets the more balanced and relatable that
person will be.
LOSS OF IDENTITY
The force of witchcraft will cause people to lose
their individual identities.
Your identity is your sense of who you are, what
your all about, your focus in life, core values,
purpose, goals, aspirations, life experiences,
education and interrelationships. Those influenced
by witchcraft begin to wonder who they are. They
doubt their unique purpose and role in life. I have
27

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
even seen pastors attacked by witchcraft doubt their
calling into ministry—even after many years of
service.
Witchcraft will make you feel that without the
person operating in this demonic spirit (controller)
you have no personal identity of your own. When
you find yourself losing purpose and wondering why
you feel the way you do that is a sign that witchcraft
is trying to steal your identity. Witchcraft will make
you feel like you are out of place and have no
personal value as you watch your self-esteem
disappear. Beware of drawing your sense of value
from someone else other than Christ.
QUESTIONS
Review these questions to help you identify if
witchcraft has been released at you through the
methods we just discussed.
 Do you feel like less of a person at times in the
presence of someone else?
 Do you think that you have no meaning in life
apart from your relationship with someone
else?
 Do you feel like you have lost your personal
identity?
 Do you feel like your ministry is insignificant?
 Have you ever felt that one of your friends or
relatives tried to isolate you from other people?
 Do you know anyone who gets super spiritual
with you when you try to have a normal
conversation?
 Is this person always telling you what God told
them that He wants you to do?
28

Witchcraft’s Control
 Have you lost close friends because someone
began to talk spitefully about them?
 Has anyone pitted two of your friends against
each other?
 Is there anyone who releases fear at you
whenever they want you to do something?
 Has anyone ever told you something terrible
was going to happen to you if you didn’t do
what he or she said?
SICKNESS
Sickness is a key weapon of witchcraft.
When you are battling witchcraft, you might start
getting severe headaches or feel like you are choking
and can’t breathe. One time, when I was battling
with this spirit, I felt like someone was standing on
my chest. I thought I was going to have a heart
attack. The force against me was real and the battle
was raging. But, through prayer, pleading the blood
of the Lamb and the word of my testimony I won!
I have met many people, especially intercessors,
who felt sick and got headaches when witchcraft was
attaching them. Others felt an oppression that
rested on their faces.
I know of others who experienced various “old”
sickness symptoms appear during intercession.
When you are ignorant you don’t know what to do,
but when you know the Word of God and your
authority as a believer you can fight back.
And they overcame him by the blood of the
Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they
loved not their lives unto the death.
Revelations 12:11 KJV
29

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
FATIGUE
Fatigue is a much-used weapon of witchcraft.
Witchcraft drains the life (energy) right out of
you. When attacked, you feel tired, depressed,
oppressed and fatigued. You can take vitamins,
exercise, run five miles and it still doesn’t help.
Have you noticed how many people go to work
tired all the time? They have three cups of coffee in
the morning just to begin work. Could some of them
be suffering from a witchcraft assignment? Others
feel sad, sleep all the time and feel trapped in
depression and can’t get out.
What I used to think was simply stress-related I
now strongly suspect to be the indication of demonic
assignments. There have been times, for example,
when I was feeling extremely stressed, boarded a
plane, left the city and felt the fatigue lift. I am not
ruling out the effects of stress, but if you know the
fatigue is not medical—or stress—related, could it be
witchcraft’s assignments? There have been other
times when I have been well rested, in superb
health, the bills are all paid, everything is good, but I
find myself weary. There are other times, after
preaching certain subjects like “Exposing Spiritual
Witchcraft,” “Jezebel Seducing Goddess Of War,”
“Ahab The Provoker,” “Religious Spirits” or “Beware
The Charismatic Merchandisers,” I fight against
spiritual retaliations. Such demonic assignments
should never stop you from following the leading of
the Holy Spirit to minister a certain topic.
QUESTIONS
Review these questions to help you identify if
witchcraft has been released at you through the
30

Witchcraft’s Control
methods we just discussed.
 When you are in prayer, do you get sick or
have headaches?
 Have you ever gotten ill after a confrontation
with someone who was spiritually contending
with you?
 Do you feel tired most the time?
 Are your emotions on a roller coaster?
 Do you suffer from depression?
 Have you experienced spiritual retaliations
against you?
TIME CONSUMERS
Here’s a clever weapon of witchcraft—the time
thief.
Witchcraft controllers spend abnormal amounts
of time with their victims:
The girl that consumes all her friends’ spare time.
The boy that smothers his girlfriend with
inordinate attention.
The father that picks his son up on his day off
because of reoccurring emergencies.
The husband that keeps his wife so busy that she
has no time for anything else.
The believer that wants to meet with the pastor
each week to talk about the same old, same old.
The teacher who drowns the student with
excessive tutoring.
The friend that never goes home.
The boss that continually has you in his office to
sit and listen.
31

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Witchcraft will go out of the way to control and
waste your time. It’s not a natural thing; it’s a
spiritual thing. Scripture says,
Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbor’s house;
lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee.
Proverbs 25:17 KJV
In the church, we can see the spirit of witchcraft
operating through the person who wants to hold a
deep spiritual conversation with the pastor right
before he approaches the pulpit to speak.
QUESTIONS
Review these questions to help you identify if
witchcraft has been released at you through the
methods we just discussed.
 Is there anyone who spends abnormal amounts
of time with you either in person or on the
telephone?
 Is there anyone who continually consumes or
desires your time, especially when you should
be in church?
 Have you ever noticed the person who wants to
have a spiritual conversation with you during
the most reverent time of a church service?
DIVERTING ATTENTION
Witchcraft is a master at diverting attention away
from itself by turning it toward you. It makes others
think that you are the one with the problem. People
operating in witchcraft are masters at taking the
focus off of them whenever they are about to be
discovered.
These people think they never do anything
32

Witchcraft’s Control
wrong. When caught, they say there is nothing to for
which to repent. They tell you directly, “I haven’t
done anything wrong.” Or, “I did what I thought was
right. I don’t have anything to feel sorry about.” They
never manifest any true repentance or humility.
Whatever humility they may demonstrate is false
and used only as a tool to manipulate you.
Superficial repentance is a common witchcraft
deception. Beware of their motives because
witchcraft never examines self.
QUESTIONS
Review these questions to help you identify if
witchcraft has been released at you through the
methods we just discussed.
 Do you ever feel that everything is always your
fault?
 Do you know someone that feels like they have
not done anything wrong after they have
abused you?
 Are your problems always the fault of others?
 Have people told you they were sorry but you
knew they weren’t?
LEGITIMATE FRONTS
The spirit of witchcraft seeks a legitimate front.
To look good, those operating in witchcraft
surround themselves with men and women of
character. They try to associate themselves with
credible people and others with good reputations in
an attempt to make it look like they’re part of that
group. Simon, a sorcerer, for example, joined Philip’s
ministry team in Samaria (Acts 8). The Apostle Peter
discerned Simon’s motives and rebuked him.
33

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
SOUL TIES
Witchcraft uses soul ties to control its victims.
Have you ever heard the word soul ties? Well,
that’s what witchcraft wants to create with its victim.
If they can hook your emotions, then they can gain a
soul tie with you. If they can form a soul tie with
you, then they can control you. All abnormal soul
ties need to be broken. There are natural soul ties
and abnormal soul ties.
A natural soul tie could be formed if you were
involved in a plane crash, landed on a remote island
with several survivors helping each other endure.
The result of that accident could lead to a positive
emotional bonding with the others. That’s a healthy
bonding because everybody successfully went
through a great trial together.
When you have sexual relations with someone
there is a soul tie (emotional bonding) that generates
because two flesh are become one (Genesis 2:24).
Sexual relations in marriage generate a healthy soul
tie, while sexual relations outside of marriage create
unhealthy soul ties.
I know of times when people have lost their
children through some unfortunate accident. Just
being there with them has formed an emotional soul
tie. In essence, there are some good soul ties that
bring stability into a person’s life to help get them
through something. Then there are soul ties used
solely for the purpose of manipulation, control and
selfish gain.
QUESTIONS
Review these questions to help you identify if
witchcraft has been released at you through the
34

Witchcraft’s Control
methods we just discussed.
 Have you ever been emotionally bonded with
someone who used that bonding to manipulate
you?
 Have you met the person who tries to make
himself or herself look important through the
use of other peoples’ reputations?
 Do you know anyone who insinuates that they
are part of an organization through
namedropping?
SUMMARY
Witchcraft needs to separate and isolate its
victims from the influence of friends and family.
One who is being controlled by witchcraft feels
the loss of personal identity and self-esteem.
People operating in witchcraft don’t want to share
your attention with others, but want to keep you
totally for themselves.
Beware of drawing your sense of value from
someone else other than Christ.
Witchcraft drains the life (energy) right out of
you.
Witchcraft will go out of the way to control and
waste your time.
People operating in witchcraft are masters at
taking the focus off of them whenever they are about
to be discovered.
To look good, people operating in witchcraft
surround themselves with men and women of
character.
People who walk in witchcraft have an air of
spiritual superiority about them.
35

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
In the following chapter we discover witchcraft’s
hidden agenda through false prophecy, dreams and
visions.
36

THREE
3 WITCHCRAFT’S HIDDEN AGENDA
Witchcraft uses false prophecy, dreams and
visions to deceive and control others.
here are people who use prophecy for the
purpose of control and the introduction of
hidden agendas. They view it as a great tool with
which to manipulate. God may speak prophetically
to you through another, but in most cases (not
always) it will be to confirm what He has already laid
on your heart.
T
PROPHECY, A GATEWAY TO CONTROL
We are not to be led by personal prophecy,
dreams or visions that have not been thoroughly
tested by the Word of God (1 John 4:1). People who
prophesy without the unction (prompting of the Holy
Spirit) are vulnerable to tapping into a familiar spirit
of divination.
Someone might ask, “What if the prophecy comes
true?”
The answer to that common question is, “Even
the devil can prophesy the truth.”
Just because a prophecy was accurate doesn’t
mean that it was God speaking to you. All prophetic
words must be discerned for accuracy and Biblical
truth. Judgments such as, “What’s the spirit behind
the prophecy? What’s the motivation? Is the
prophetic word bringing life or control? Is the word
37

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Biblical? Was the prophecy laced with fear?”
Many controlling prophecies are full of fear and
are not from God because He never releases a spirit
of fear at us. The spirit of witchcraft, however, will
use fear as a tool to control and manipulate.
Scripture confirms this saying,
For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but
of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.
2 Timothy 1:7 KJV
COUNTERFEIT PROPHETIC OPERATIONS
The spirit of witchcraft hates accurate prophetic
ministry, and will counterfeit true prophetic
operations whenever possible. Scripture gives us a
look at a counterfeit operation when the Apostle Paul
met a damsel who was possessed with a spirit of
divination. Let’s take a look.
And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a
certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination
met us, which brought her masters much gain by
soothsaying: The same followed Paul and us, and
cried, saying, These men are the servants of the
most high God, which show unto us the way of
salvation. And this did she many days. But Paul,
being grieved, turned and said to the spirit, I
command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come
out of her. And he came out the same hour.
Acts 16:16-18 KJV
Notice that Paul spoke to the spirit, not the
young girl. This is a great example of prophetic
divination working through someone who was
speaking the truth. Witchcraft operates in the same
manner.
Through this scripture we learn that the spirit of
witchcraft can prophesy correctly. A spirit of
38

Witchcraft’s Hidden Agenda
divination possessed the young girl and she could
prophesy and tell the future. Obviously, the young
girl had a reputation for selling her prophetic
services throughout the city. In fact, she was so
popular with the people that she brought her owners
much financial gain.
She had heard the Gospel and was probably
quite touched by it. She may even have become a
believer. Nevertheless, she was following Paul down
the street shouting, “These men are servants of the
Most High God, which show us the way of salvation.”
That was definitely true, but something was
bothering Paul in his spirit every time she spoke. I
can just imagine the moment when Paul looked at
her and said, “Come out!” The people who heard him
were probably shocked and wondering why Paul was
so cruel to this precious young lady. After all, the
poor girl was just telling the truth.
Just like the deception of Esau’s tears, feeling
sorry for this damsel would block true spiritual
discernment. The Apostle Paul was not being cruel
to the young girl at all. In reality, he was setting her
free and getting rid of the spiritual assignment
against the Gospel and her life. After discerning the
operation of witchcraft Paul looked at her and said to
the spirit, “Come out of her!”
SEEING THE INVISIBLE
Because of the lack of spiritual discernment
throughout the Body of Christ, such confrontational
events would make religious people very upset. God
gave us spiritual discernment, however, to use, not
to ignore. Spiritual discernment is a divine ability to
look beyond the visible into the spiritual to discern
truth.
39

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Some churches, for example, are meeting in
storefronts. The buildings are not attractive from the
outside, and some will never go in and experience
God because they don’t like the looks of the
building. So they judge with their eyes, rather than
their spirits. People like that are not walking with
spiritual discernment, but are walking by sight
alone.
When you walk by sight alone, you limit your
spiritual discernment to what is seen naturally—the
visible. If you have no spiritual discernment, then
you can easily fall into a demonic trap.
One cannot discern what God is doing by judging
the appearance of a building alone. Throughout
Africa many worship under simple metal-roofed
huts. They have no image by which to be judged, but
have powerful moves of God in those unsightly
dwellings.
Some, however, judge only with their eyes by
looking for religious imagery, such as stained glass
windows, large white steeples and great crowds—
none of which matters. Judging by such things can
be very deceptive. Looking at the visible alone is not
operating in spiritual discernment at all. Cults can
have nice looking buildings, yet the Spirit of God is
light years away.
DISCERNING OF SPIRITS
The young damsel continued to follow Paul
shouting, “These men are servants of the Most High
God. They announce to us the way of salvation.”
Again, it was an absolutely true statement, but in
her a spirit of witchcraft was working.
Could the young girl prophesy? Yes. Did she
sound spiritual? Yes. Did she say the right things?
40

Witchcraft’s Hidden Agenda
Yes. Was she speaking truth? Yes. But she was
working through the spirit of witchcraft. Many who
failed to discern what spirit was working through the
damsel could have been misled by her false
prophetic operations in the future. But thanks to the
Apostle Paul’s discernment she was set free and we
were left with a powerful example of the discerning
of spirits.
How do we know that the damsel was operating
in a spirit of witchcraft? We know because she had
no unction (permission) to prophesy from the Holy
Spirit. Rather, she was flowing in the familiar spirit
that she had used often to offer smooth sayings to
her clients.
If prophecy is spoken by the will of man alone,
outside the unction (permission) of the Holy Spirit,
that prophecy is a curse and the operation of
witchcraft. If God doesn’t give the unction to
prophesy and you do so anyway, then you are
vulnerable to tapping into a spirit of divination and
you are operating by witchcraft.
Scripture tells us to wait for the unction of the
Holy Spirit before prophesying:
Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the
scripture is of any private interpretation. For the
prophecy came not in old time by the will of man:
but holy men of God spake as they were moved by
the Holy Ghost.
2 Peter 1:20-21 KJV
Notice, too, that holiness (holy men of God) is
mentioned as a prerequisite to accurate prophetic
operations.
SPIRIT OF BAAL
Behind all witchcraft divination is the spirit of
41

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Baal. Baal means to babble or to talk, thus we learn
of this spirit’s ability to prophesy. Baal was a false
God as seen in scripture when Ahab married
Jezebel. Ahab, the provoking King of Israel, built a
temple for Baal worship. Ahab also erected an
Asherah pole therein used to stir up sexual lust
spirits. Divination and sexual sin work together.
Where you find one you will find the other.
Those who operate in witchcraft have trouble
with sexual sin somewhere in their lives. There is no
true holiness, but only a superficial form of
godliness. You will seldom hear them speak about
holiness, sin, or things like that, because they are
deceived by witchcraft and don’t want to expose
themselves.
CONTRARY TO THE WORD
I was once asked to view a videotape that
contained a prophetic word. I heard a woman say to
the man, “Rebuke your pastor and set him in his
place.” After viewing the entire tape I quickly told the
man that the prophecy was not from God. He didn’t
like what I had to say because the prophecy fed the
man’s anger toward his pastor. I told him that
scripture clearly says,
Rebuke not an elder, but entreat him as a father;
and the younger men as brethren.
1 Timothy 5:1
That prophecy was in direct violation and conflict
with the Word of God, therefore it was false. To this
day the man avoids me because I didn’t agree with
that prophecy. When it comes to prophecy, it doesn’t
matter how spiritual a person sounds or how much
spiritual punch the prophecy had with it, if it’s
contrary to the written Word of God, then it’s not
42

Witchcraft’s Hidden Agenda
from the Spirit of God—it’s witchcraft.
Now let’s explore some important truths that
Jeremiah had to say about false prophets and priest.
By studying these scriptures we can learn a great
deal about the operations of witchcraft through
prophecy.
HIDDEN AGENDA
Mine heart within me is broken because of the
prophets; all my bones shake; I am like a drunken
man, and like a man whom wine hath overcome,
because of the LORD, and because of the words of
his holiness.
Jeremiah 23:9 KJV
People that operate in witchcraft have a hidden
agenda. The scripture says, “because of the
prophets.”
To help shed some light on the subject of
witchcraft, I want to substitute “prophets” with
“spirit of witchcraft” in the scripture we just read. (I
am not changing the scriptures so don’t get religious
here. This is just to illustrate an interesting point. )
After the change it would read, “Mine heart
within me is broken because of the spirit of
witchcraft.” Jeremiah is sick of the false prophetic
operations around him. In this verse we see him
highly anointed and about to bring forth a strong
revelation.
Let’s take a close look at a series of scriptures
that deal with witchcraft and divination. Jeremiah
continues,
For the land is full of adulterers; for because of
swearing the land mourneth; the pleasant places of
the wilderness are dried up, and their course is evil,
43

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
and their force is not right.
Jeremiah 23:10 KJV
Jeremiah is speaking particularly of spiritual
adulterers leading the church. A spiritual adulterer
is one who has an idol in his heart. An idol is
something that separates a person from God
because he or she loves the idol more than God.
Idolatry is a curse.
Jeremiah declares, “Because of swearing, the
land mourns and the pleasant places of the
wilderness are dried up.” The land is symbolic of the
local church. This means that there was no life in
the church because of the polluted leadership that
he referred to as spiritual adulterers.
We, too, can see dry and lifeless churches today.
These churches may look good and sound good, but
there is no spiritual life in them because sinful
leaders have polluted them. Jeremiah says that the
church mourns and is without life because of
profane prophets and priests.
PRECIOUS OR VILE
Further, Jeremiah tells us that the land was
defiled because of spiritual adultery. He describes
the leadership by saying that, “Their course is evil.”
People that operate in witchcraft rush into
wickedness without restraint. If being deceptive will
advance their own selfish goals, then they don’t care
about God’s church or affecting your life in a
negative way.
Jeremiah says, “For both prophet and priest are
profane; yea, in my house have I found their
wickedness, saith the LORD” (Jeremiah 23:11 KJV).
Profane—even in the leadership of the house of
44

Witchcraft’s Hidden Agenda
God! The word “profane” means the loss of ability to
separate the holy from the unholy.
The wicked prophets and priest of Jeremiah’s day
were guilty of defiling the church because they
would not separate the holy from the unholy. In
other words, they would not tell the truth because it
might not be politically, socially or religiously
correct. They allowed people to continue living in sin
without being confronted with the Word of God. They
would stay away from things that the people didn’t
want to hear; things they perceived would hinder the
growth of their ministries. Jeremiah continues,
Therefore, thus saith the LORD, If thou return,
then will I bring thee again, and thou shalt stand
before me: and if thou take forth the precious from
the vile, thou shalt be as my mouth: let them return
unto thee; but return not thou unto them.
Jeremiah 15:19
This verse teaches us the importance of living a
holy life if we are to be leaders of the church. If you
have an unholy mixture in your life and ministry,
then you cannot be a true mouthpiece for God. You
might prophesy, but it could be by the wrong spirit.
Remember that Baal is a spirit of divination—the
working of witchcraft. It searches for compromising
prophets and priest who refuse to separate the
precious from the vile.
As seen in the following verses, just like the
young damsel, even King Saul prophesied by
witchcraft. Scripture says:
But the spirit of the LORD departed from Saul,
and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled him. And
Saul’s servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil
spirit from God troubleth thee.
1 Samuel 16:14-15 KJV
45

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil
spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied
in the midst of the house....
1 Samuel 18:10 KJV
King Saul was a backslidden religious
compromiser and a candidate for the working of
witchcraft. Just because he prophesied didn’t mean
it was the Spirit of God moving on him. Witchcraft
has a hidden agenda—to deceive.
Personal prophecy can bring great comfort to
every believer. Witchcraft, however, views the use of
personal prophecy as a means to control and
manipulate. Scripture admonishes us to “know
those that labor among you” (1 Thessalonians 5:12).
How true, especially of those whom labor among us
prophetically.
SUMMARY
There are people who use prophecy for the
purpose of control.
Just because a prophecy was accurate doesn’t
mean that it was God speaking to you.
Many controlling prophecies are full of fear.
The spirit of witchcraft hates accurate prophetic
ministry, and will counterfeit true prophetic
operations whenever possible.
Prophecy spoken by the will of man alone,
outside the unction (permission) of the Holy Spirit, is
the operation of witchcraft.
Baal means to babble or to talk.
The word “profane” means the loss of ability to
separate the holy from the unholy.
Witchcraft has a hidden agenda—to deceive.
46

Witchcraft’s Hidden Agenda
In the next chapter we learn more about the
characteristics of prophetic witchcraft.
47


FOUR
4 PROPHETIC WITCHCRAFT
The characteristics of prophetic witchcraft are
betrayal, lying, compromise, avoidance of
confrontation of sin and an unclean spirit.
eremiah tells us about the rebellion hidden in
the lives of profane prophets and priests.	J And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria;
they prophesied in Baal, and caused my people
Israel to err.
Jeremiah 23:13 KJV
The word “folly” means to operate in rebellion
and foolishness. Workers of witchcraft do foolish,
even stupid, things that don’t make any sense. Then
they say that God told them to do it. They will argue
with their counsel saying things like, “I have heard
from the Holy Spirit and I am submitted and listen
to Him only.” Statements like that are common and
contrary to the Word of God, which teaches that
there is safety in a multitude of counselors (Proverbs
11:14).
When you start thinking that you are more
spiritual than others and that you are the only one
that can hear from God, you’re in big trouble. When
you think that you are the only one that’s got the
truth, and the only one that receives revelation, or
the only one that can prophesy, or the only one that
knows the Word of God, you’re entering the realm of
foolish rebellion. You’re well on your way to being
overtaken by the spirit of witchcraft.
49

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Jeremiah said that profane prophets and priest,
“prophesy by Baal.”
Baal is a spirit of divination (false prophesy).
Were these Samarian prophets and priests
prophesying? Yes, yet when they prophesied it
brought error and led people astray. Their prophetic
words did not lead people into liberty and freedom
from sin, but into sin’s bondage. That’s the result of
prophetic witchcraft.
Witchcraft released through false prophecy (in
Baal) can rob years from a person’s life. Prophetic
divination only releases confusion and will never
lead you closer to God. We must learn to submit to
God and avoid folly, the foolishness of rebellion.
ISSUES OF SIN
I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem a
horrible thing: they commit adultery, and walk in
lies: they strengthen also the hands of evildoers,
that none doth return from his wickedness: they are
all of them unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants
thereof as Gomorrah.
Jeremiah 23:14 KJV
Notice the characteristics of prophetic witchcraft:
 Adultery (betrayal and sexual sin)
 Lying
 Strengthening evildoers (compromise)
 None return from wickedness (avoiding
confrontation of sin that hinders repentance)
 As Sodom and Gomorrah (unclean).
People that walk in witchcraft are subject to
sexual sin and perversion, whether by viewing
pornography where no one can see them except God,
50

Prophetic Witchcraft
or by flirting with girls or boys in the church.
I prayed for a young man once and smelt a
strange odor and knew by the Spirit of God that it
was a homosexual spirit. All homosexual spirits are
unclean spirits. When I discerned what it was, I said
to the spirit, “Come out of him!” Instantly, the spirit
slammed the young man to the floor and came out.
Unbeknownst to me, the young man was the
pastor’s son. Children of ministers are trophies to
demonic powers. The pastor later told me that many
prophets had attended his church but he had never
seen any of them cast out unclean spirits. I thought
that was a terrible reflection on the true prophet’s
ministry that carries a responsibility of dealing with
matters of sin and holiness. You cannot be a true
prophet and ignore sin.
People that walk in witchcraft avoid dealing with
issues of sin. The devil doesn’t want to expose his
strategies. True prophets, however, always deal with
issues of sin (Lamentations 2:14). That doesn’t mean
that God will publicly embarrass someone. Don’t
forget that there is a prophetic statesmanship used
with the seasoned prophet.
SMOOTH SAYINGS
Jeremiah tells us that witchcraft operates
through smooth sayings and refuses to turn people
from sin.
Thy prophets have seen vain and foolish things
for thee: and they have not discovered thine iniquity,
to turn away thy captivity; but have seen for thee
false burdens and causes of banishment.
Lamentations 2:14 KJV
These are the false prophets who prophesy
smooth sayings. Smooth sayings are prophetic words
51

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
that people want to hear. They are full of flattery and
words that mean nothing.
Workers of witchcraft prophesy worthless and
misleading sayings that lead people to wrong
conclusions because they feed and fuel spiritual
pride and idolatry.
True prophetic operations will expose sin for the
purpose of deliverance and to keep someone from
being ensnared by deception. The Holy Spirit always
uncovers and reveals sin in order to keep one’s soul
from going to hell.
LYING
Again, Jeremiah, speaking about the prophets of
Jerusalem says,
“they commit adultery and walk in lies” (Jeremiah
42:14).
For emphasis, we could read this scripture,
“I have seen also among the workers of witchcraft
a horrible thing, committing adultery and walking in
lies.”
The spirit of witchcraft will lie to you without
conscious. It’s time to tag these false prophets on
their lies and break free from their deception.
Someone once told me that they had the
prophetic word from the Lord for a particular
meeting. It puzzled me because I felt like I had the
word from the Lord for the meeting, but I didn’t say
anything to her. She began to tell everybody that
was connected to the meeting that she had the word
from the Lord. Because of her persistence, like
others, I started to believe her. I thought, “Well, God,
I know that you have given me a prophetic word for
this particular meeting and I know that your word
52

Prophetic Witchcraft
doesn’t have to come through me, that’s up to you.
So whatever you want to do is OK with me.”
The next day, however, the girl that was telling
everyone that she had the word from the Lord then
said that she didn’t have the word from the Lord. It’s
interesting, you either have it or you don’t. Some
time during the night she lost it.
Then she said somebody else had the word of the
Lord for the meeting—her friend. I found out later
that she was simply trying to promote her friend’s
ministry. That hidden agenda is called manipulation
and is witchcraft in operation. Do you see how
dangerous and crazy this can get? (This woman was
really Jezebel’s eunuch. If you are interested in
learning more about Jezebel and her eunuchs, check
out my book Jezebel: Seducing Goddess of War.)
Those operating in witchcraft will mask a lie in
spiritual activity to promote their hidden agendas.
NO GUTS, NO GRIT, NO BACKBONE
Those who operate in witchcraft often accuse God
of changing His mind. Do you know what their
problem is? They need to stop saying, “God said.”
Jeremiah tells us, “They walk in lies and
encourage and strengthen the hands of evildoers.”
They encourage the hands of evildoers by agreeing
with their error and refusing to correct them of their
sin. These workers of witchcraft have no backbone
and are full of compromise. They say things that are
politically or religiously correct at the moment
according to the camp they are with.
The most disappointing thing about the workers
of witchcraft is “they strengthen the hands of evil
doers.” Because they lack the willingness to speak
out against unrighteousness and sin, “none returns
53

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
from his wickedness.”
PROFANENESS
Finally, Jeremiah tells us that witchcraft, left
unchallenged, will pollute the whole land.
Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts
concerning the prophets: ‘Behold, I will feed them
with wormwood, and make them drink the water of
gall; for from the prophets of Jerusalem profaneness
has gone out into all the land.’
Jeremiah 23:15 NKJV
Those that operate in spiritual witchcraft release
confusion everywhere they go. Once a man told me
about a conflict he had with what God said to him
versus what prophets said to him. He said, “God
spoke to me and told me that I am supposed to go to
the nation of Brazil.”
That got my attention because I love to meet
people who are responding to God’s call to the
nations. But then he said that another prophet told
him that the Spirit of God was saying he was
supposed to go to Columbia. Then, to top that,
another prophet said that God told him to go to
Argentina.
The man said he was confused and didn’t want to
miss God. He asked me what I thought. I asked him
to tell me what God said to him again. His response
was that God only spoke to him about going to
Brazil. “Well, that’s your answer,” I told the man.
The point is that it doesn’t matter if an angel
from heaven came down and told you something
contrary to what God has told you. You should not
be listening to anyone but God. Whether a star from
the Hollywood prophets—a superstar or a wandering
star—you need to do what God told you to do. He
54

Prophetic Witchcraft
will never violate the witness in your spirit or the
scriptures. The only thing you need a prophet for at
that point is for confirmation and perhaps timing.
Prophecy regarding the other nations could have
been in the man’s future or nothing more than the
operation of witchcraft designed to confuse the man.
CONFIRMATION
We need confirmation to guard us from the
manipulation of witchcraft’s operations. There is a
“safety net” for all prophetic utterance. That safety
net is called a confirmation. When God prophesies to
you He is, oftentimes, doing so to confirm what He
has already placed in your heart.
Upon receiving a prophetic word you should
submit it to the safety net of confirmation like your
pastor (Hebrews 13:17). Your pastor is the only one
who will have to give account to God for you. Run
your dreams, visions and prophecies by him first
before doing anything foolish.
Perhaps you have never received a prophecy, but
are sure that God has spoken to your heart. I have
had the same thing, too. I was at a meeting once
where prophets were prophesying over everyone
except me. I didn’t get a prophecy. I began to feel like
maybe something was wrong. All those prophets
actively engaged in delivery, but every one of them
stayed clear of me. They didn’t come anywhere near
me.
When the meeting was over I asked God, “Why
didn’t you give me a prophecy?” He said to me, “You
didn’t need one.” If you, however, do receive a
personal prophecy, then it is important to submit it
to the safety net of your spiritual leader.
55

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
LEARNING TO SAY NO
Jeremiah tells us that witchcraft does not come
from the Spirit of God, nor should we listen to its
message.
Thus says the LORD of hosts: ‘Do not listen to
the words of the prophets who prophesy to you.
They make you worthless; they speak a vision of
their own heart, not from the mouth of the LORD.’
Jeremiah 23:16 NKJV
Whenever God speaks to you prophetically, He
brings:
 direction
 focus
 identity
 and confirmation to your life.
He quickens you and gives you assurance that
you are going in the right direction. He never brings
confusion and wondering, but an assured knowing
that you are doing the right thing.
Neither does God release a prophetic word to get
into your pocketbook. The Holy Spirit is not a
merchandiser. You will never see God hold up and
envelope and say, “Anybody that has a hundred
dollars, I will give you a prophetic word or pray for
your healing.”
God will never do that—that’s witchcraft!
If you find yourself in a meeting like that, then
get up and leave and don’t go back. If they do things
like that in the church you attend, then question
your leader. If it persists, then find another church.
Finally, Jeremiah tells us that witchcraft will
steal God’s words to deceive. This means that false
56

Prophetic Witchcraft
prophets will sound like the real thing.
Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets,
saith the LORD, that steal my words every one from
his neighbor. Behold, I am against the prophets,
saith the LORD, that use their tongues, and say, He
saith.
Jeremiah 23:30-31 KJV
Those who operate in witchcraft listen intently for
true prophetic sayings. They break those sayings
down into “buzz words” and repeat them to appear
spiritual—that, too, is witchcraft.
QUESTIONS
The following questions will help you identify if
you have been a victim of prophetic witchcraft.
 Have you ever had conflicting personal
prophecy and were very confused or hurt by it?
 Have you ever received a personal prophecy
and it just did not witness with your spirit?
 Have you ever heard anyone say, “I am
submitted and listen only to the Holy Spirit?”
 Do you hear people say repeatedly, “God said”?
Does it seem, however, that God is continually
changing His mind?
 Do you submit prophecies, dreams and visions
to your pastor to judge and examine them?
 Has anyone ever said they would give you a
prophecy in exchange for money?
 Have you ever felt that you could prophesy and
it would manipulate someone to do what you
wanted?
 Did you ever prophesy because you felt a
strong pull on you from the people or because
57

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
you had a reputation to live up to?
 Did you ever prophesy because you wanted
people to know how spiritual you were?
 Have you ever heard someone pray a prayer
that was intended to manipulate?
DRIVEN PROPHETS
When you are in prophetic ministry and enter a
territory in which witchcraft is operating, it is
important to be careful that you receive the unction
(permission) of the Holy Spirit to prophesy (2 Peter
1:20-21).
I have seen true prophets prophesy in false
operations because they tapped into the spirit of
divination that was resident in the territory. I write
more on this subject in my book Prophetic
Operations. Without a strong unction it is possible to
tap into man-pleasing prophetic divination that
feeds the idolatry in someone’s heart (Ezekiel 14).
Jeremiah says that profane prophets and priest
are not stable and are driven into slippery places.
For both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in
my house have I found their wickedness, saith the
LORD. Wherefore their way shall be unto them as
slippery ways in the darkness: they shall be driven
on, and fall therein: for I will bring evil upon them,
even the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:11-12 KJV
Jeremiah speaks of “slippery ways in darkness.”
This speaks of ambiguous prophetic sayings that
produce nothing but instability in the people.
Witchcraft cannot produce stability.
True prophets build stable believers. Profane
prophets produce flaky believers. Profane prophets
58

Prophetic Witchcraft
and priest lack inner peace and are frantically
driven. Hitler was driven. Alexander the Great was
driven. False prophets are driven. Workers of
witchcraft, too, are driven. God doesn’t drive his
servants; He leads them ever so gently. Those
operating in witchcraft, however, have a driving force
egging them on. It’s witchcraft. It’s slippery. It leads
to dark places and it’s not from God.
SUMMARY
True prophets build stable believers.
Profane prophets produce flaky believers.
The word “folly” means to operate in rebellion
and foolishness.
Smooth sayings are prophetic words that people
want to hear.
Those who operate in witchcraft often accuse God
of changing His mind.
Witchcraft releases confusion.
When God speaks prophetically, He brings
direction, focus, identity and confirmation to your
life.
The Holy Spirit is not a merchandiser.
In the next chapter we learn how good Christian
people enter witchcraft’s road to deception.
59


FIVE
5 WARNING SIGNS
There is a demonic road to deception where
jealousy, fear, spiritual pride and hidden agendas
rule.
hose operating in witchcraft draw people to
themselves and down the that road to deception.
Let’s look at some warning signs.
T
THE DITCH OF DECEPTION
Many Christians are being attacked by witchcraft
and don’t understand what’s happening to them.
Like the arrival of a sudden thunderstorm, they are
tossed to and fro by every wind that blows their way.
Scripture speaks of deceiving influences worth
studying out.
And by unlimited seduction to evil and with all
wicked deception for those who are perishing (going
to perdition) because they did not welcome the truth
but refused to love it that they might be saved.
Therefore God sends upon them a misleading
influence, a working of error and a strong delusion
to make them believe what is false.
2 Thessalonians 2:10-11 AMP
The scripture above is referring directly to the
coming of the anti-Christ and, most interestingly,
the spiritual condition of those whom he will deceive.
Therefore the Word teaches us that witchcraft’s
deception is directed toward those who do not
61

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
welcome or love the truth of God. That doesn’t mean
that they do not know it. Someone once said, “It is
one thing to know the truth and quite another to
love the truth.” Every time we press into areas of
spiritual truth that bring clarity to our lives the
enemy will resist us. He wants to keep us ignorant
and in deception. As long as he can operate
unexposed and keep us wondering he can operate
unhindered.
How is it that good people that start out right get
over into the ditch of deception? What is it that
happens to them? Why the spiritual instability: the
fruits, flakes and nuts? Where did they come from?
Why are there so many unstable believers? Why so
many others that are religious, self-righteous and
legalistic? Could it be that they have heard the truth
but don’t love it enough to fully embrace it? Is there
an identifiable fork in the road where we can place a
warning sign?
Let’s dive into the life of King Saul for some
interesting answers. Saul was a king who started out
right and ended in gross deception. Toward the end
of his life he was thoroughly controlled by witchcraft.
But what happened to him? Are there any
identifiable causes of the deception that he fell into?
THE LIFE OF KING SAUL
Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he
stood among the people, he was higher than any of
the people from his shoulders and upward.
1 Samuel 10:22-23
The day Saul was anointed king was a special
day in his life. He wasn’t seeking fame or position,
but rather our first picture of Saul’s personality is
62

Warning Signs
one of a shy, humble young man. His humility is
evident in that he “hid himself among the stuff.”
The prophet Samuel described Saul as humble in
his heart the day God anointed him as the King of
Israel.
And Samuel said, when thou was little in thine
own sight, was thou not made the head of the tribes
of Israel, and the LORD anointed thee king over
Israel?
1 Samuel 15:17 KJV
Being “little in thine own sight” meant that Saul
knew that, apart from God, he could have never
been chosen king. This was true humility that had
nothing to do with how he looked, talked, his social
position or financial status. His qualification for
selection of king was simply the condition of his
heart.
SAUL’S CHANGE
Saul’s modest attitude started him off balanced
and stable, headed in the right direction and
pursuing his destiny in God.
But something happened.
Two years later we see a significant change in
Saul’s life. There was a dramatic occurrence that
turned the course of his life in the wrong direction.
Let’s take a look.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the
Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines
heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all
the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear. And all
Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of
the Philistines, and that Israel also was had in
abomination with the Philistines. And the people
63

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
1 Samuel 13:3-4 KJV
Notice this major clue of change in Saul’s life—
Saul blew his own horn.
BRAGGING
You have probably heard that it is always best for
someone else to talk about your accomplishments.
Now we see Saul boasting of his triumph throughout
the entire nation. What happened to this man who
was once “little in his own sight?” How did he get to
the place where he wanted everyone to know how
great he was?
The day Saul began to brag of his deeds he left a
stable life and walked toward the valley of deception.
This is how the religious spirit acts. They let
everyone know how large the Easter crowd was, how
majestic their feeding programs are, their
homecoming celebrations, how many times they
went to church and how many hours they pray.
Their life turns into a marketed series of religious
activity and, to them, worth bragging about.
Can you see the deception beginning to work its
way into King Saul’s life? Saul even takes the credit
for his son Jonathan’s victory. Scripture clearly says
it was, “Jonathan who smote the garrison” not Saul.
Boasting is the sign of pride.
I met a young man who bragged about the
number of nations and States in which he had
preached. He seemed uninterested in anything that
we, or others, were doing. I got the feeling that he
was carving a notch in a rifle handle for each nation
he visited. I asked him if he was continuing to work
with the people in those churches and he said “no.”
64

Warning Signs
STEALING CREDIT
Saul taking credit for something that he didn’t do
marked his passage of the second warning sign
toward deception. That’s what some Christians do,
too. They forget that it is God who heals the sick and
sets the captives free. Yet, there are those that would
suggest, “That person was healed because of my
special relationship with Jesus. After all, I did pray
for her all night.”
In the early days of my ministry, a dear believer
gave me some priceless advice. One of her
instructions was for me to never talk about myself.
She was emphatic and matter-of-fact about it. She
went on to say, “Even if God is doing great things in
your ministry, don’t say it. Let others say it for you.”
I wonder if she knew she was putting up a warning
sign for me at the first intersection to deception—
don’t brag.
As soon as you brag on yourself, you are entering
the road to deception. On that well-traveled road lay
the spirits of witchcraft and religion.
AN UNBRIDLED TONGUE
The Word of God likens the unbridled and
boastful tongue to a deceived man.
If any man among you seem to be religious, and
bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart,
this man’s religion is vain.
James 1:26 KJV
If you think you’re not deceived, but you are
bragging about your ministry, then you’re in
deception already. The Word tells us how dangerous
the unbridled tongue can be.
65

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Even so the tongue is a little member, and
boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a
little fire kindleth! And the tongue is a fire, a world
of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members,
that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire
the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell.
James 3:5-6 KJV
Boasting about your accomplishments releases a
great deception. It’s easy to get excited when you see
God do incredible things, just be sure to give Him all
the glory.
Everyone needs to be careful not to brag by
blowing his or her own horn.
QUESTIONS
Examine yourself by answering these questions:
 Do you talk proudly and excessively about your
ministry accomplishments?
 Do you boast about what God is doing through
your ministry?
 Do you drop names and brag about whom you
know in ministry?
 Are you quick to take credit for things you
didn’t do?
 Do you think you’re more spiritual than
others?
 Do you rank your spiritual experiences with
other people’s spiritual experiences?
 Are you comparing your spiritual visions and
dreams with others’?
 Are you counting and comparing the size of
your ministry to others’?
 Are you boasting about how many to whom you
66

Warning Signs
have prophesied?
 Are you bragging about the size of your
meetings?
 The amount of time that you spend praying?
Scripture teaches us not to think more highly of
ourselves than we should.
For I say, through the grace given unto me, to
every man that is among you, not to think of himself
more highly than he ought to think; but to think
soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man
the measure of faith.
Romans 12:3 KJV
Your great faith is not what makes things happen
in life and ministry. You can’t say you’re doing
anything other than being obedient to God’s Word.
So if you’re going to boast, boast in the Lord because
it is Jesus who died for you and is working through
your life.
NO SUBMISSION
Let’s get back to the story of King Saul. We
already learned that he blew his own horn (bragged)
and took credit for things he didn’t do. Now we will
learn that he was impatient, disrespected God’s due
order and trespassed into another’s ministry role.
And he (Saul) tarried seven days, according to
the set time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel
came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered
from him. And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt
offering to me, and peace offerings. And he offered
the burnt offering. And it came to pass, that as soon
as he had made an end of offering the burnt
offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to
meet him, that he might salute him.
1 Samuel 13:8-10 KJV
67

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
King Saul was impatient and lacked respect for
God’s due order and governmental authority that
was represented by the prophet Samuel. This is
evident because Saul would not wait for the prophet
to arrive. Because of his lack of respect of Samuel’s
prophetic role and his impatience, Saul took it upon
himself to perform the prophet’s ministry.
Like the tennis player that crosses the foul line,
Saul overstepped his grace and got involved in
something that was not his role. This sounds like
the non-submitted and defiant person that tells their
pastor, “I’m just doing what the Holy Spirit tells me
to do.” The implication being that the Holy Spirit
doesn’t communicate His plans in the church with
the pastor.
Saul didn’t value the spiritual significance of
Samuel’s prophetic role. Saul viewed building the
altar and offering the sacrifice as a religious routine
that anyone could perform.
When Samuel finally arrives he speaks harshly to
Saul, telling him that he had not carried out God’s
commandment.
And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done
foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of
the LORD thy God, which he commanded thee: for
now would the LORD have established thy kingdom
upon Israel forever.
1 Samuel 13:13 KJV
The more Saul ventures down the road of
deception, the more deceived he becomes. Saul no
longer recognizes and submits to governing
authority, but instead steps out of his role and
makes the sacrifice to God himself. It was very
disrespectful to Samuel and an act that disregarded
God’s due order, another warning sign of deception.
68

Warning Signs
QUESTIONS
Ask yourself the following questions to make sure
you understand the condition of your heart.
 Do you find yourself being drawn into places of
ministry where you don’t belong?
 Are you impatient and full of anxiety?
 Do you respect the five-fold ascension ministry
gifts?
 Do you recognize the unique value and roles of
these gifts?
 Do you understand that God has a due order in
ministry?
SUMMARY
Many Christians are being attacked by witchcraft
and don’t understand what’s happening to them.
Saul’s modest attitude started him off balanced
and stable, headed in the right direction and
pursuing his destiny in God.
Saul taking credit for something that he didn’t do
marked his passage of the second warning sign
toward deception.
The Word of God likens the unbridled and
boastful tongue to a deceived man.
If you think you’re religious, but you are bragging
about your ministry, then you’re in deception
already.
Boasting about your accomplishments releases a
great deception.
Scripture teaches us not to think more highly of
ourselves than we should (Romans 12:3).
69

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Saul was impatient, disrespected God’s due order
and trespassed into another’s ministry role.
In the next chapter we explore how to identify
whether or not someone is on the road to deception
by how they operate in the local church.
70

SIX
6 ROAD TO DECEPTION
One of the quickest ways to enter witchcraft’s
deception is by failing to submit to the spiritual
leadership in your local church.
f you are abusing and disrespecting your leader,
then you are frustrating the grace of God for your
life and you are a candidate for the deception of
witchcraft.
I
In the last chapter, we saw how King Saul passed
many warning signs on the road to deception. From
blowing his own horn and taking credit for things he
didn’t do to being impatient with God and getting
out of his role.
I have met many people who were on the road to
deception. Many, for example, have told me that they
were prophets—whether anyone could recognize it or
not. I have met others who call themselves pastors
and have no sheep. Still others who call themselves
apostles and have never built anything.
These folks are the deceived that take upon
themselves God’s government without His calling.
Witchcraft loves to operate in false, self-appointed
spiritual government. When one enters into a place
that he is not called to be, he steps out of his place
of authority and protection (grace) and into the
realm of deception where witchcraft operates.
PASTORAL ABUSE
71

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Just like Saul, there are many that do not
respect God’s governmental order of apostles,
prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers, which
results in abuse. There was a time when ministerial
authority was respected; yet, today, many attack
pastoral authority without hesitation. Many pastors
have told me stories of being emotionally abused by
those they try to love and protect.
Leaders are not called to be abused by devils that
are camouflaged in sheep’s clothing.
There may be times when a pastor makes a
mistake or even does something of which one does
not approve, but that does not mean that the
believer is called to straighten out that pastor or to
give him a piece of his mind. God’s leaders are His
gifts to the local church and the Body of Christ. If
you can’t submit to your leader—leave the church.
Scripture says,
And he gave some, apostles; and some,
prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors
and teachers for the perfecting of the saints for the
work of the ministry.
Ephesians 4:11-12 KJV
The “He” is Jesus himself. Let’s treat His gifts like
gifts. Jesus gave ministry gifts to perfect every
believer. He also gave them governmental authority
and they are worthy of our respect and submission.
Scripture reminds us to,
Remember them which have the rule over you,
who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose
faith follow, considering the end of their
conversation.
Hebrews 13:7 KJV
SUBMISSION
72

Road to Deception
The language, “rule over you,” is offensive to
those who are living in rebellion. They would rather
climb Mount Everest than submit to any man.
Others only submit their lives to flaky friends who
are not biblically responsible to give an account to
God for their actions.
The rebellious, like King Saul, refuse to submit to
God’s rule through His leadership. As soon as their
pastor (or set man) brings correction, as the bishop
and overseer of their soul, they accuse the pastor of
being non-loving and judgmental on the way out the
door and seek emotional solace from their friends.
Your leader is the overseer of your soul. He’s not
overseeing whether or not you’re saved. That’s
between you and Jesus. But he is responsible for
helping you mature and for guarding your soul. Your
soul is your mind, will, intellect, reasoning,
imaginations and emotions.
Ask yourself these questions:
 Do you resent the fact that your pastor (or set
man) is the bishop and overseer of your soul?
(1 Peter 2:25)
 Are you helping advance the vision of your
local church?
 Are you dedicated to the success of your local
church?
 When people disrespect or talk spitefully about
your leader, how do you respond?
If you live out of your soul in a negative way, then
your set man has the responsibility and authority to
bring correction. If you despise that authority, then
you are like Saul, who took it upon himself to offer
the sacrifice. After all, Saul felt he had waited long
enough for the man of God and that he didn’t need
the prophet Samuel. A modern translation would be,
73

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
“I don’t need the pastor. I can do this myself.”
If that sounds like you—watch out. You have
passed a warning sign and are walking down the
road of deception.
I know there has been resistance to submission
because there have been some controlling pastors
that have lorded over people for selfish purposes. I
understand that. Of course, the devil would try to
discredit any pastoral ministry. But this does not
nullify the fact that there is a true five-fold ascension
gift authority. Scripture teaches us that God wants
us all to be in submission.
Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers.
For there is no power but of God: the powers that be
are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth
the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they
that resist shall receive to themselves damnation.
For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the
evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do
that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the
same: For he is the minister of God to thee for good.
But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he
beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister
of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that
doeth evil.
Romans 13:1-4 KJV
Do you respect the spiritual authority of God’s
ministers?
If you are resisting, rebelling, confronting,
bucking, fighting or coming against God’s ministry
gifts, then you are entering the path to witchcraft.
Rebellion always opens the door for witchcraft to
operate.
Do you find yourself saying things like, “I listen
to and submit to God only.” Those who are only
submitted to God use that statement as an excuse to
74

Road to Deception
do whatever they want. They have no safety check or
accountability for their actions. They feel as if they
can do as they like without question. Those with
that attitude are on the road to witchcraft’s
deception.
SPIRITUAL COVER
Submission carries with it accountability.
Accountability makes you responsible and creates
spiritual stability in your life. The best thing to do
when one is in trouble is to run for cover. Run to
Jesus, yes, but run for the covering of your spiritual
leaders. Submit your life to them and allow them to
minister to you. When you find yourself in trouble,
examine yourself first to be sure that you have not
missed it, then run for cover. Don’t rebel against
your spiritual covering—run for it. Submit the
spiritual oversight of your life to your leaders and
watch yourself come into stability. Submission to
your spiritual leaders is a great way to protect
yourself from the powers of witchcraft.
Submission always helps you get away from
torment in your mind. A submissive person prays,
“God examine me. Look inside my heart and see if
there be any iniquity in me.”
Don’t be afraid of your spiritual leaders. Let them
have a good look at the real you. I’m not talking
about submitting yourself to religious controlling
spirits. Never submit yourself to false authority, but
only to leaders that are truly living the life.
Resisting submission will only force you further
down the road of deception and witchcraft. Don’t let
your attitude be one of, “I am perfect and nobody is
going to examine me but God alone.” That’s pride
and very dangerous. Stay away from flaky friends
and get a true spiritual covering. Flaky friends will
75

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
only jump on the wagon of deception with you. Stay
away from people who allow you to remain the way
you are. Jesus received you the way you were, but
He will not leave you the way He found you. God
wants you to grow and mature. Helping you to grow
and mature is real love.
THE LOCAL CHURCH
Do you have a tendency to draw people to
yourself outside the authority and official recognition
of the local church? Saul did. Those on the road to
spiritual deception and operations of witchcraft do,
too.
Others do by saying, “What do we need that
pastor for? We don’t need to go to that church. Let’s
do our own thing. We don’t need to submit to his
leadership. We are just as anointed as he is. We are
the church.”
Can you see it? Rebellious attitudes like that
pass all the warning signs down the road to spiritual
deception.
Do you find yourself counseling or pastoring
others outside the authority and official recognition
of the local church? There is a grace to counsel
resting on God’s five-fold ascension gifts that
matches their responsibility to God. As a believer
only, rather than the set man of a local church, you
will never have that same level of grace. Therefore, it
is important not to get out of your role like King Saul
did. He didn’t respect the prophet’s ministry and
trespassed into another’s role.
I am not saying that you cannot minister to
someone, but I am saying that there is a
responsibility and authority that Jesus gave His five-
fold ascension gifts that you will never have. Some
76

Road to Deception
refuse to submit to such due order, thus pulling
people to themselves outside the local church and
into the realm of deception.
I have heard people say things like, “I’m going to
counsel this person. I understand her better than
the pastor does. They’re too hard on her. They expect
too much of her. She’s just not able to do what they
tell her. I’m better equipped. I can do a better job.
The pastor just doesn’t understand.”
Ask yourself these important questions:
 Do you look at a pastor who confronts sin as
being too hard or non-loving?
 Do you talk spitefully about those in the
ministry? Is it all right to “give them a piece of
your mind?”
 Are you resisting, rebelling, challenging,
confronting, bucking or coming against the
leadership in your church?
 Do you allow yourself to be held accountable?
Those operating in the deception of spiritual
witchcraft draw people to themselves and away from
the covering and stability of God’s gift to the church.
Just like the rebellious King Saul, stepping outside
your role and not respecting your leaders’ ministry is
the quickest path to deception. Saul’s modest
attitude started him off balanced and stable, headed
in the right direction and pursuing his destiny in
God. But then he passed the warning signs on his
way down the road to deception.
SUMMARY
Leaders should be given honor and respect.
To be submissive, you must allow yourself to be
held accountable.
77

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Rebellion always opens the door for witchcraft to
operate.
Submission will help you get torment out of your
mind.
Stay away from people who allow you to remain
the way you are.
In the next chapter we examine telling signs of
religious witchcraft.
78

SEVEN
7 RELIGIOUS WITCHCRAFT
The road sign that reads “Beware Religious
Activity” is the brightest and stands out most of all
in terms of warnings down the road to witchcraft.
Those who travel past it enter the perils of
deception.
ead religious activity was the most telling sign
of the deception of witchcraft that had taken
hold of King Saul’s life. If we don’t understand this,
then we, too, can fall prey to witchcraft’s power. Let’s
review the steps to Saul’s demise as he entered dead
religious activity, built a monument to himself, lied
and lost his ministry—and then finally his life.
D
And Saul built an altar unto the LORD: the same
was the first altar that he built unto the LORD. And
Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by
night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let
us not leave a man of them. And they said, do
whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said the
priest, Let us draw near hither unto God. And Saul
asked counsel of God; Shall I go down after the
Philistines? Wilt thou deliver them into the hand of
Israel? But he answered him not that day.
1 Samuel 14:35-37 KJV
In this scripture Saul built an altar and prayed
when prompted by the priest. Nevertheless, God
didn’t answer him.
When God refuses to answer a prayer it has
significant meaning. In this case God did not answer
79

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Saul. We can only speculate that it was because of
the condition of Saul’s heart. Essentially, Saul’s
heart was full of religion. Saul perceived the building
of this altar as nothing more than a necessary
religious activity. We can tell that building the altar
was simply a religious activity by what came out of
his mouth at the altar. His intent was not to counsel
or inquire of God, but to be seen as a religious man
by those he was leading. Saul built the altar
(religious activity) and was ready to go into battle
without praying. That’s what some of us do, too. We
run through some religious activity in a vain effort to
be seen by others as honorable.
Saul built that altar out of a religious spirit
rather than a heart-felt need to seek God for
direction. This is made evident after the altar was
built because Saul was ready to depart without
waiting for God’s direction. The priests, however,
were quick to remind Saul of the altar’s real
purpose: the place of drawing near to God in
submission while seeking counsel from the Lord.
The priest, perhaps puzzled, said, “Let us draw near
to God here.”
WAITING ON THE LORD
God refused to answer Saul that day because He
was testing his heart.
When someone else has to remind you to pray
before you make a decision, don’t expect God to
answer your prayer so quickly. Like Saul, God may
test your heart. Waiting on God in prayer is vital for
every believer. Wait for His answer before you take
any action. If He doesn’t answer you—wait.
Throughout Saul’s life we see God dealing with his
continued lack of prayer and patience.
80

Religious Witchcraft
Learning to wait on the Lord is invaluable advice
to all believers. Scripture says,
But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew
their strength; they shall mount up with wings as
eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they
shall walk, and not faint.
Isaiah 40:31 KJV
Saul was a man captured by the snares of lifeless
religious activity. He did not respect the ministry of
the priest and it would cost him dearly throughout
his life.
BEWARE RELIGIOUS ACTIVITY
Like Saul, some of us go through religious
motions only for others to see, yet, God sees the
heart. The priest reminded Saul to put God first by
seeking him before he made any decision to go to
battle.
The scripture above strongly reveals another
warning sign that Saul passed—“Beware Religious
Activity.” Saul did not heed this caveat, but instead
built an altar and crossed the line by performing a
religious activity just to be politically correct. He
would not wait on God.
Religious activity is an excuse to do one’s own
thing. Those who are bound by religious activity are
not submitted to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. If
Jesus is Lord of your life, then you are not free to
live as you choose. Jesus may be your Savior, but if
he is Savior only, then you probably feel you are free
to live anyway you want to and ask for forgiveness
later. Life in the Spirit doesn’t work that way. Jesus
wants to be your Lord, not just your Savior. When he
is your Lord you are free from the traps of religious
activity. When Saul built that altar, he was just
81

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
going through religious motions.
Religious activity was a cover up for Saul to do
his own thing. Saul probably thought that, because
he was the king, a display of religious piety was
expected of him.
Religious activity can be found in many good
works. Good works, however, must be done out of
the right spirit and with the right motives. If you’re
just going through religious motions, then you’re
standing on the side of the religious spirit. I’m sure
that Saul never forgot, neither forgave, the priest for
reminding him to pray before making a decision.
QUESTIONS
Examine your heart by asking some important
questions:
 Are you still doing your own thing?
 Have you submitted your will to the Lordship of
Christ Jesus?
 Are you involved in religious activities out of a
sense of religious obligation?
 Can you see any vain religious activity in your
life?
 Do you go to church just because it’s the right
thing to do?
 Do you pray just so others can hear you
praying?
 Do you pray only at mealtimes?
DISRESPECTING THE DUE ORDER
The progression of Saul’s walk toward spiritual
witchcraft is revealed by disrespect for God’s due
82

Religious Witchcraft
order, the value of other ministry roles, a lack of
patience and waiting on the Lord. On the surface it
appears that all is well in his life, but we will soon
discover that deception will keep him from totally
obeying God, resulting in the loss of his kingdom.
Let’s take a look at the final straw that broke the
proverbial camel’s back and cause—the loss of his
kingdom.
The mandate of the Lord to Saul was,
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy
all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both
man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep,
camel and ass.
1 Samuel 15:3 KJV
Let’s make sure that we understand God’s
command to Saul: “Go and smite Amalek and utterly
destroy all.”
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah
until thou comest to Shur, that is over against Egypt.
And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive,
and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of
the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag,
and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of
the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good,
and would not utterly destroy them: but every thing
that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed
utterly.
1 Samuel 15:7-9 KJV
Notice that Saul spared the life of Agag, king of
the Amalekites, and the best of his animals. God
took special interest in this disobedience and spoke
to the prophet Samuel about it.
GOD’S REGRET
83

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Then came the word of the LORD unto Samuel,
saying, it repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be
king: for he is turned back from following me, and
hath not performed my commandments. And it
grieved Samuel; and he cried unto the LORD all
night.
1 Samuel 15:10-11 KJV
This was a sad night for Samuel, who loved Saul
dearly.
The truth is that God has great compassion for
us, yet he views obedience greater than sacrifice.
Saul refused to fully obey the command of the Lord:
“utterly destroy all.”
Saul developed a pattern in his life of ignoring
the Lord’s instruction and considering public
opinion more important. Because he valued political
status as more significant than keeping God’s Word,
his heart grew callous toward the commands of the
Lord. He kept the good things of the Amalekites and
destroyed only the refuse and vile.
MONUMENTS TO SELF
Saul desired to be a man of reputation. As he slid
down the slopes into deception, like a third-world
dictator he set up a monument of himself for all to
see.
When Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the
morning, he was told, Saul came to Carmel, and
behold, he set up for himself a monument or trophy
[of his victory] and passed on and went down to
Gilgal.
1 Samuel 15:12 AMP
The Amplified translation reads, “Saul came to
Carmel, and behold, he set up for himself a
monument or trophy [of his victory].”
84

Religious Witchcraft
Can you see the degeneration in his life? He now
views this victory over the Amalekites as something
that he alone has achieved. God’s Word reminds us,
“It’s not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit says
the Lord of Host” (Zechariah 4:6).
The Lord of Host is a military term. We are part of
the host, but He is “The Lord of Host.” Saul is
slipping from his mooring. He is losing his sense of
humility.
True humility understands that apart from Jesus
we can do nothing (John 15:5). All of us, from
servant to king, are to “humble ourselves under
God’s mighty hand and he will exalt us in due time” (1
Peter 5:6).
Pride is a deceiving error that witchcraft
promotes because it always exalts self. Its
manifestation will even prompt you to erect a
monument to yourself. Pride is the very thing that
caused Lucifer to be thrown out of heaven. Lucifer
said in his heart, “I will ascend above the heights of
the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High”
(Isaiah 14:14 AMP). Pride is the root of spiritual
witchcraft.
REBELLION, DISOBEDIENCE AND BLAME
God had enough of Saul’s rebellion and
disobedience. He deals harshly with Saul as He
sends His prophet to represent Him. Let’s take a
look at this scripture:
’And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said unto
him, Blessed be thou of the LORD: I have performed
the commandment of the LORD. And Samuel said,
what meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in
mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen that I hear?
And Saul said, they have brought them from the
85

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the
sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto the LORD
thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell
thee what the LORD hath said to me this night. And
he said unto him, say on. And Samuel said, When
thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not
made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the LORD
anointed thee king over Israel? And the LORD sent
thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy
the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them
until they be consumed.
1 Samuel 15:13-18 KJV
As the prophet Samuel approached, King Saul
greeted him saying, “I have performed the
commandments of the Lord.”
Unbeknownst to Saul, Samuel had been in
prayer all night perceiving that a confrontation was
at hand. Samuel replies to Saul, “What meaneth then
this bleating of the sheep?”
Isn’t it amazing how strong the deception of
witchcraft can be? Even with the sounds of the
sheep in the air, an obvious sign of Saul’s
disobedience to fulfill the Lord’s command to destroy
everything, Saul lies to God’s prophet Samuel. Then,
if that were not enough, he blames his disobedience
on the people saying, “The people spared the best
sheep and oxen to sacrifice unto the Lord.”
The reality was that Saul was more concerned
about public opinion than the commandment of
God. In his thinking, the people were going to
sacrifice (religious activity) the sheep to the Lord
anyway. In the eyes of deception and witchcraft a
religious activity will make disobedience an
acceptable thing.
Remember that witchcraft always takes the focus
86

Religious Witchcraft
off of itself and puts it on others through blame.
Samuel had enough of the lies and deceptive dialog
and reminded Saul that when he was “little in his
own sight” (possessing humility) he was made king
over Israel.
PROPHETIC CONFRONTATION
It’s time for confrontation and Samuel proceeds
to ask the king some very pointed questions
exposing his iniquity.
Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of
the LORD, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst evil
in the sight of the LORD? And Saul said unto
Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the LORD,
and have gone the way, which the LORD sent me,
and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and
have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the
people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of
the things that should have been utterly destroyed,
to sacrifice unto the LORD thy God in Gilgal. And
Samuel said, Hath the LORD as great delight in
burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the
voice of the LORD? Behold, to obey is better than
sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. For
rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and
stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because
thou hast rejected the word of the LORD, he hath
also rejected thee from being king. And Saul said
unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed
the commandment of the LORD, and thy words:
because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn
again with me, that I may worship the LORD. And
Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee:
for thou hast rejected the word of the LORD, and the
LORD hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid
87

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent. And
Samuel said unto him, The LORD hath rent the
kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given
it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
1 Samuel 15:19-28 KJV
Saul denies that he was only concerned about
profiting from the spoils of the victory. He further
lies by saying that he fully obeyed the Lord. Then he
blames the people for his sin contending that they
only wanted the sheep to make a sacrifice.
The result of Saul’s continual cover up—he loses
his ministry.
God teaches us a powerful lesson by warning us
to avoid rebellion and stubbornness, which He
equates to witchcraft. Notice, too, that Saul never
repents.
HONOR ME
At this point, the powers of witchcraft have so
overcome Saul that, even after his ministry is ripped
from him, he still has one more request of the
prophet Samuel—“honor me before the people.”
Saul’s heart is clearly not right. Still, after all
this, he is more concerned about public opinion and
his image in the sight of man rather than God. What
a sad day this was as we see the Spirit of the Lord
depart from his life.
But the spirit of the LORD departed from Saul,
and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled him. And
Saul’s servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil
spirit from God troubleth thee.
1 Samuel 16:14-15 KJV
The Spirit of the Lord departs and Saul becomes
prey to the torment of evil spirits that continually
88

Religious Witchcraft
oppress him. Because of Saul’s rebellion, he opened
the door for several other spirits to operate in his
life: fear, jealousy, murder and divination.
SUMMARY
When God refuses to answer a prayer it has
significant meaning.
Waiting on God in prayer is vital for every
believer.
Throughout Saul’s life, God was dealing with his
continued lack of prayer and patience.
Saul was a man captured by the snares of lifeless
religious activity.
Religious activity was a cover up for Saul to do
his own thing.
Saul developed a pattern in his life of ignoring
the Lord’s instruction and considering public
opinion more important.
Saul desired to be a man of reputation.
Pride is the root of spiritual witchcraft.
In the eyes of the deceived, religious activity will
make disobedience an acceptable thing.
Witchcraft takes the focus off of them and puts it
on others through blame.
In the next chapter we take a closer look at the
danger of rebellion.
89


EIGHT
8 REBELLION
Witchcraft will murder anybody whom it views
as a threat to its hidden agenda. Whenever someone
tries to manipulate another for the purpose of
advancing a selfish agenda that is witchcraft.
hen the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul
he spiralled slowly out of control. We watch
him be overcome by jealousy, fear, murder,
divination and finally, full blown spiritualism—which
resulted in his eventual suicide.
W
During this period, David slew Goliath, entered
the service of King Saul and eventually led one of his
armies. Unknown to King Saul, God sent the Prophet
Samuel to David’s house when he was just a
youngster to anoint him for a future day when he
would replace Saul as king.
One day David and King Saul were returning
from battling with the Philistines and a simple song
sparked a murdering spirit of jealousy in King Saul’s
heart. Let’s take a look.
And it came to pass as they came, when David
was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine,
that the women came out of all cities of Israel,
singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with
tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of music.
And the women answered one another as they
played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands,
and David his ten thousands. And Saul was very
wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he said,
91

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
they have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and
to me they have ascribed but thousands: and what
can he have more but the kingdom? And Saul eyed
David from that day and forward.
1 Samuel 18:6-9 KJV
The pattern of destruction begins to unfold. Saul
was extremely jealous of David’s anointing and the
adoration he received from the people.
Like jealous Saul, some get incensed when others
are more popular and get extra attention. When we
are walking with God, we can rest in the “peace that
passes all understanding” from such assignments
against our imaginations (Philippians 4:7). When we
step out of peace through rebellion, then fear,
jealousy and insecurity rule our life. Fear always
releases insecurity and causes one to be very
controlling.
Remember, too, that witchcraft desires to control
the environment around it. Anyone who threatens
that environment is viewed as a danger. This is how
Saul viewed David—a threat to his ministry. To
manage that threat, Saul became controlling and
was overcome by a murderous spirit.
DIVINATION THROUGH PROPHECY
Witchcraft continues to impose a serious levy on
Saul as he steps into the realm of false prophecy.
David was at King Saul’s house to witness him
prophesying by a spirit of divination. Scripture says,
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil
spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied
in the midst of the house: and David played with his
hand, as at other times: and there was a javelin in
Saul’s hand.
1 Samuel 18:10 KJV
92

Rebellion
Did Saul prophesy? Yes, but by what spirit was
he prophesying? It was a spirit of divination.
Scripture clearly states that the Spirit of the Lord
departed from Saul, yet we watch him prophesy. His
prophetic utterance, however, was not given to him
by the Holy Spirit, but, rather, by an evil spirit. This
is why all prophecy must be judged. For every true
gifting of God there is a counterfeit. We must be
capable of discerning what spirit is at work and
allow all prophetic utterances to be examined
carefully (1 Thessalonians 5:21). This is the
judgment of mature ministry gifts. Let’s not be afraid
to judge all prophetic utterances. Only those
operating through witchcraft would disagree.
A MURDEROUS SPIRIT
When King Saul finishes prophesying, he throws
the javelin that was in his hand at David. David was
completely innocent. He had no idea that the
anointing on his life was causing this murdering
spirit to manifest. Scripture says,
And the evil spirit from the LORD was upon
Saul, as he sat in his house with his javelin in his
hand: and David played with his hand. And Saul
sought to smite David even to the wall with the
javelin; but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence,
and he smote the javelin into the wall: and David
fled, and escaped that night.
1 Samuel 19:9-10 KJV
Saul attempts to murder David because of
jealousy. Witchcraft hates the voice and the
anointing of God. David has no choice but to flee
from a man he truly loves to save his own life. Saul,
representative of one with a religious spirit (religion
is a murdering spirit), attempts to murder David, an
innocent young man who loves God.
93

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Moreover, Saul pursued David to Nob, the city of
priest, and in his murderous rage orders Doeg to kill
forty-five of God’s priests to get information
regarding David’s whereabouts.
Witchcraft will murder anybody it views as a
threat to its kingdom (ministry). Scripture says,
And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall
upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and
he fell upon the priests, and slew on that day
fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen
ephod. And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he
with the edge of the sword, men and women,
children and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and
sheep, with the edge of the sword.
1 Samuel 22:18-19 KJV
FULL-BLOWN SPIRITUALISM
Saul attempts to pray, but again, God refuses to
answer him.
And when Saul inquired of the LORD, the LORD
answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim,
nor by prophets. Then said Saul unto his servants,
seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit that I
may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants
said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a
familiar spirit at Endor. And Saul disguised himself,
and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men
with him, and they came to the woman by night: and
he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar
spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto
thee.
1 Samuel 28:6-8 KJV
Saul frantically inquired of God, yet God’s voice
had left him. What Saul didn’t realize was that true
repentance is the criteria for God’s ear.
94

Rebellion
Notice, too, that Saul sought prophetic dreams.
In his desperation for a prophetic word, he entered
into full-blown spiritualism by seeking out the witch
of Endor. God strictly forbade seeking the prophetic
services from one with a familiar spirit.
How many today allow the spirit of witchcraft to
encourage them to ignore God’s Word and attempt to
gain spiritual insight illegally through familiar
spirits? While preaching in Holland, I read a
newspaper report that said half of the population of
Italy was seeking out spiritualists to prophesy their
futures. The most shocking thing, however, was that
eighty percent of the seekers were “church” people.
Deception is never prejudiced.
THE SWORD
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy
sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these
uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and
abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he
was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and
fell upon it.
1 Samuel 31:4 KJV
From these scriptures we see the gradual decline
and fall of a man once anointed by God to be king.
At the very root of the deception was spiritual pride,
wanting to be seen of men and fearing them more
than God.
The end result of witchcraft and spiritualism is
death. Scripture declares,
So Saul died for his transgression which he
committed against the LORD, even against the word
of the LORD, which he kept not, and also for asking
counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to inquire of
it; And inquired not of the LORD: therefore he slew
95

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
him, and turned the kingdom unto David the son of
Jesse.
1 Chronicles 10:13-14 KJV
QUESTIONS
Examine your heart by asking yourself these
questions:
 Do you feel drawn to super spiritual activity?
 Are you seeking after prophecy, dreams and
visions?
 Do you run after every new revelation?
 Are you jealous of someone else’s gifting?
 Do you feel that others should recognize your
gifting? Does it really bother you when they
don’t?
 Do you have a tendency to follow spiritual
experiences without first undertaking a careful
examination of the Word of God?
 Do you think that you are more spiritual than
others?
 Do you have a tendency to change your opinion
of scripture based on whom you’re talking to at
the time?
 Is anyone you know feeding your spiritual
pride?
 Are you obedient to do the commandments of
God in your life?
 Are you seeking diplomas, awards and trophies
so as to be seen by man?
 Do you crave positive public opinion?
 Are you always blaming others for your
problems?
96

Rebellion
 Are you looking for the recognition and honor
of men?
 Do you judge all personal prophecies?
 Are you reading the horoscope? Calling
Psychics? Seeking for personal prophesies?
 Are you climbing a religious ladder?
WITCHCRAFT IN THE CHURCH
Now lets examine how witchcraft works in other
areas of life and ministry.
Witchcraft often deceives people that have a
tendency to judge what God is doing by comparing
the number of people that attend one church with
the number of people that attend another church.
Just because a church has a large membership does
not necessarily mean that the Spirit of God is
blessing it. Some ministers think that the size of
their church represents God’s approval on their
ministry—not true. That church might just have
great programs, or, perhaps, requires no
commitment from the people, or the pastor or
church deacon board might just be great controllers.
You can avoid attending a church that is
deceived by witchcraft if you understand how to
recognize one. You will find that their leaders are
controlling, prideful and will quench the Spirit.
When a leader continues to quench the moving of
the Holy Spirit, that is a signal of trouble. Quenching
the Holy Spirit is a direct violation of scripture (1
Thessalonians 5:19). Leaders that are afraid to allow
the Holy Spirit to flow freely in the church are
controlling churches around the world.
Then there are other leaders that think they, and
no one else, can hear from God. These are spiritual
97

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
controllers who are full of pride. The reality is, as
soon as you think that you are the only one who can
hear from God, or “have the truth,” you are in
trouble and great danger.
I feel for the innocent believer submitted under a
controlling leader that will not let God be God in His
own church. Many times these same controlling
leaders say, “We must maintain order in this church
by using any means.” I believe in order, too, but not
in control of the Holy Spirit by carnal and insensitive
leaders. I have seen entire churches fast and pray
for a move of God’s Spirit and, when He shows up,
some religious spirit gets angry about it. It’s time for
this type of behavior to stop. God will not dwell long
in a controlling religious church.
Control is a form of witchcraft. The Apostle Paul
wrote,
Now the Lord is that Spirit: and where the Spirit
of the Lord is, there is liberty.
2 Corinthians 3:17 KJV
FEAR OF MAN
Fear of man and public opinion is a sure sign of
being infected by witchcraft.
Witchcraft likes to be in control of every
situation. If you will not worship God in a particular
way based on who is at church with you, then look
out, you are infected by the fear of man. Scripture
teaches us that becoming a man-pleaser disqualifies
one as a servant of Christ.
For do I now persuade men, or God? Or do I
seek to please men? For if I yet pleased men, I
should not be the servant of Christ.
Galatians 1:10 KJV
98

Rebellion
The fear of man affects many people. Some
pastors will not preach a particular way, sing a
certain song, or even have an altar call to lay hands
on people and pray if they know that some district
official (or someone who could advance their political
agenda) may be visiting. Peter and John had the
right attitude when they answered the charges of
religious officials.
But Peter and John answered and said unto
them, whether it be right in the sight of God to
hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.
Acts 4:19 KJV
Many times controlling preachers will get angry if
their sheep visit other churches, even when they
have no service that night. It’s quite all right for a
pastor to be protective, but not controlling.
I don’t want anyone to think that I am picking on
pastors—I am not. Witchcraft is not limited to
pastoral leadership by any means. Pastors, for the
most part, are God-loving men who have laid down
their lives for their sheep and deserve our greatest
respect.
HIDDEN AGENDAS
Hidden agendas are indications of witchcraft at
work.
Congregations are sometimes full of people with
hidden agendas. Their purpose is to advance up
some sort of imaginary religious ladder. Each rung
seems to give them a sense of value. Holding to a
hidden agenda is the root to division within a local
church.
Whenever someone tries to manipulate another
for the purpose of advancing a selfish agenda that is
witchcraft. Those who operate in witchcraft like to
99

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
hang around a churches’ existing leadership waiting
for their “gifting” to be recognized. They look for the
opportunity to seize upon any open positions of
authority. (Carrying out a hidden agenda is the
operation of rebellion.) Scripture directly connects
witchcraft with rebellion.
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and
stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because
thou hast rejected the word of the LORD, he hath
also rejected thee from being king.
1 Samuel 15:23 KJV
Witchcraft spirits gain their strength and sense of
security by controlling others. Without you, they feel
helpless and, many times, will go into deep
depression. For the most part, those under the
influence of witchcraft will not reach the leadership
of an organization because the leadership will
quickly lose respect for them as they recognize their
self-centeredness.
The religious spirit and the witchcraft spirit are
close cousins. A religious spirit will not let you
advance or grow in the Lord. It will keep you bound
in religious tradition and works, not freedom in the
Spirit.
WITCHCRAFT THROUGH CONTROL
Witchcraft is clearly seen by the actions of
controlling people.
Once witchcraft (operating through a person) has
controlled you, it doesn’t want to let go. Even when
the person lives in another city they are constantly
reaching back into the lives of those they once
controlled. You find yourself getting that unexpected
phone call with the words, “God just keeps putting
you on my heart.”
100

Rebellion
Controllers will try to harass a person for years.
They are so persistent that you can seldom offend
them. The yoke of witchcraft, however, must be
broken through prayer and, yes, even direct
confrontation, if necessary. Like Saul’s relationship
with David, if witchcraft can’t control you it will
attempt to murder you. Today, witchcraft murders
people with slanderous words and false accusations.
Controllers quiz you extensively to find out
everything they can about your life and they tell you
very little about themselves. Hidden things and
secrecy are part of the witchcraft agenda. You can
sense that their phone conversations are usually
one-sided. They will spend as much time as you will
let them in probing conversation about your
problems—but watch out for their false motives.
People operating in witchcraft will flatter you to
your face, but stab you in the back. Many times
these spirits will tell you what they think you want
to hear so you won’t leave their controlling influence.
They have fake anointings and are dominant in
nature. The motives of manipulation are to obtain
control and status. They are deceitful servants with
wrong motives. They serve with a “what’s in it for
me” attitude.
Witchcraft wants to advance its selfish cause at
any price. When you refuse to submit to it, only then
will it have no further use of you. It will discard you
and begin looking for its next victim. Beware of its
final murderous attack because witchcraft likes to
kill what it can’t control.
WRAPPED IN DECEPTION
The spirit of witchcraft must be held accountable.
You cannot submit to controlling spirits. Those
101

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
under the influence of witchcraft, like Saul, never
think they are doing anything wrong. I have heard
people who were caught in blatant sin tell me that
they did nothing wrong and have nothing to feel
sorry about. They get so wrapped up in deception
that they will not allow the Spirit of God to bring
them to repentance. When caught, they act like
innocent lambs.
Like Saul, those deceived by witchcraft get lifted
up in pride. They think they are the ones that “make
the world go around.”
Listen to them talk. They will flatter you with gifts
and kiss up to you; yet, there is always some kind of
string attached. When someone flatters you, listen to
your heart. If you sense a check (red light) in your
spirit—beware. Never violate the inner witness in
your spirit. That red light is God’s Spirit cautioning
you. In the last days, witchcraft spirits will attempt
to control the liberty of the Spirit Himself and kill the
prophetic voice of God.
Let’s look at some more aspects of witchcraft.
LEGALISTIC
Witchcraft is legalistic and looks for assistants.
More specifically, a person operating in the spirit
of witchcraft is legalistic when it comes to you, but
does not hold themselves to the same letter of the
law. This evil spirit will use you until it perceives
that you are a threat to its supposed arena of
authority or that you serve no further purpose.
Witchcraft controllers are always looking for
assistants, vessels to carry and guard their
manipulations.
Leaders beware! Watch for controllers who try to
manipulate and dominate your preaching, and your
102

Rebellion
time, with all sorts of witchcraft and words of
intimidation. As soon as someone says he or she will
leave the church or stop tithing if you preach about
a certain subject, help him or her find the door and
preach on.
SECRETIVE
Witchcraft will not tell you everything.
Those operating in controlling witchcraft are very
secretive because they operate best by withholding
information. Most of the time, in conversation, they
will not volunteer vital information. You have to ask
them and be very specific with your questions.
People operating in witchcraft view sermons as
being intended for people other than themselves.
After all, they think they are more spiritual than
everybody else and their religious mindset points
fingers at others in the congregation who “really
need to hear that message.” This is what the Apostle
Paul describes as vanity of mind.
This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that
ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk, in the
vanity of their mind.
Ephesians 4:17 KJV
QUESTIONS
Examine your heart by asking yourself these
questions:
 Do you fear public opinion more than God’s
opinion?
 Is someone intentionally hindering your
spiritual maturity?
 Is there someone from your past who continues
103

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
to try and control you?
 Is there someone telling you what they think
you want to hear?
 Has anyone given you a gift with strings
attached?
 Have you ever felt used?
 Is someone very secretive with you?
WITCHCRAFT AND THE SPIRIT OF JEZEBEL
The spirit of Jezebel operates in witchcraft.
Jezebel is a controlling manipulating spirit of
witchcraft. Witchcraft spirits will attack you when
you hold them accountable. Jezebels say things like,
“You are non-loving and mean.” But true Christian
love must address areas that are out of order in your
life.
As we discussed previously, a religious person,
who is self-centered and prideful, is a target for
witchcraft. These folks gauge their spirituality by the
length of time they pray and the amount of religious
works they do. But when people are operating in the
spirit of Jezebel, they are not putting anything into
the relationship, but are only using you to advance
their selfish motivations. When witchcraft is released
at you it makes you feel used.
People operating in the spirit of Jezebel
(controlling witchcraft) seldom repent of their
harmful actions and can be very brazen and
outwardly aggressive to cover up their insecurities.
Even when wrong, they will not admit to their
improprieties. Instead, they talk about being “broken
and poured out” but only as a camouflage to hide
their sinister motives. Insecurity puts on a bold
facade as a protection so as not to be rejected.
104

Rebellion
The Jezebel spirit will size you up and do
whatever it takes to find your weakness. Whatever
you’re susceptible to, it will attack you in that area.
To learn more about the spirit of Jezebel, check out
my book Jezebel: Seducing Goddess of War.
SUMMARY
Fear always releases insecurity and causes one
to be very controlling.
The end result of witchcraft and spiritualism is
death.
Control is a form of witchcraft.
Whenever someone tries to manipulate another
for the purpose of advancing a hidden selfish agenda
that is witchcraft.
Witchcraft likes to kill what it can’t control.
The next chapter teaches us how witchcraft plays
on our imaginations.
105


NINE
9 IMAGINATIONS AND WITCHCRAFT
Witchcraft plants seeds of deception in the mind
through vain imaginations. The release of those
imaginations causes confusion, which is a sure sign
of witchcraft’s influence.
e have learned that we are in a spiritual war
and that witchcraft is a demonic weapon
formed against us.
W
Witchcraft works against the mind to release all
sorts of evil thoughts and imaginations. But we can
use our God-given spiritual weapons to break the
influence of witchcraft’s control.
Witchcraft has a voice and it causes all sorts of
imaginary offenses by whispering things that are not
true. The voice of witchcraft in one’s imagination
might ask, “What are you doing in this church? Mary
didn’t smile at you last night. Maybe she doesn’t
really like you after all.” Witchcraft will tell you,
“That’s for them, not for you. Worship God in your
own way. You don’t need to go to church. You can
worship God at home.”
The spirit of witchcraft continues to work on you
and work on you—in the battlefield of your mind. It
releases vain imaginations at your mind in a sinister
attempt to wear you down and make you unstable.
It is absolutely critical that we conquer the
instability produced by vain imaginations because
we cannot be effective in ministry until we know how
to conquer the working of witchcraft in our
107

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
imaginations. The mind must be fortified with
scriptural truth in order to guard against the spirit
of witchcraft.
Spirit-filled believers are those gifted to stand
against the powers of witchcraft. They must have,
however, a militant attitude toward witchcraft’s
assignments and expose them whenever possible.
DOUBT AND UNBELIEF
Witchcraft seeks to get you out of faith and
walking in doubt and unbelief. This is a powerful
tool of witchcraft used to attack you through your
emotions. The voice of witchcraft will release
thoughts of doubt into your mind.
Ask yourself these important questions:
 Have you ever had a problem with vain
imaginations in your thought life?
 Did you ever think that nobody loved you or
cared about you?
 Do you sometimes feel rejected or worthless?
Those feelings most likely stem from witchcraft
being released at you. Witchcraft paints a dark and
gloomy portrait of life in one’s mind. We must learn
how to resist the wicked forces that bombard our
minds. The Bible says that vain imaginations are
part of the last day forces released against us (2
Corinthians 10). Witchcraft whispers thoughts into
your mind that are not true. While there may be
some element of truth to the imagination, it will be
blown way out of proportion. Witchcraft makes
mountains out of molehills and torments Christians
in their imaginations.
DISCOURAGEMENT
108

Imaginations and Witchcraft
Witchcraft thrives during times of
discouragement.
One sure opportunity for witchcraft to work is
through discouragement because discouragement
always releases imaginations. Witchcraft will say
crazy things like, “The pastor didn’t smile at me
today, so he must not appreciate me like he used to.
I’m not going to come back here again.” That’s the
voice of witchcraft depositing another imagination.
So when we are attacked with a vain imagination
we need to take it captive with truth. We can’t get
free from witchcraft by being nice (compromising)
Christians, but, rather, by stepping into interceding
spiritual warfare.
Witchcraft knows the power of militant
intercession so it tries to make its victim believe that
spiritual warfare is a bunch of rubbish and doesn’t
help. But that is not so. The Spirit of God has given
every believer weapons of spiritual warfare. Spiritual
warfare is a realm that all Christians must step into
to gain the victory. Every believer should purpose in
his or her heart to oppose witchcraft by being a doer
of the Word and an interceding warrior.
SEDUCTIVE
We are not ignorant of the enemies’ strategies.
When armed with information on how witchcraft
operates, you can discern its mounting attack. We
must recognize that we are in a battle against
seductive spirits and learn how to break witchcraft’s
influence, rather than tolerating it. Recognize
witchcraft for what it is, an attack against your
mind. And don’t live with it—break it!
Witchcraft forces can be broken, but they have to
be discerned first because it is smart and knows how
109

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
to work its art. Its art is its nature, and its nature is
deception and control.
When you start doubting and wavering, and your
mind begins to get totally confused, recognize what’s
happening to you. Those feelings don’t come from
God. God does not deal with you intellectually, but
rather Spirit to spirit. God leads you by
communicating with you—Spirit to spirit. Witchcraft
influences you through your soul, especially in your
emotions. Scripture says,
The coming [of the lawless one, the antichrist] is
through the activity and working of Satan and will
be attended by great power and with all sorts of
[pretended] miracles and signs and delusive
marvels—[all of them] lying wonders—And by
unlimited seduction to evil and with all wicked
deception for those who are perishing (going to
perdition) because they did not welcome the truth
but refused to love it that they might be saved.
Therefore God sends upon them a misleading
influence, a working of error and a strong delusion
to make them believe what is false.
2 Thessalonians 2:9-11 AMP
We could also read this scripture like this, “The
coming of witchcraft will attended by great power, a
misleading influence, working of error, delusion and
faith in false teachings.”
We haven’t seen the great seducing power yet,
although we have seen minor melees where people
are run out of the local church because of dim-
witted imaginations. All of this makes it vitally clear
that we need to learn how to conquer witchcraft now
before it gets stronger.
QUESTIONS
110

Imaginations and Witchcraft
Ask yourself these questions to help you
determine if witchcraft is being released at you:
 Is anyone trying to control or manipulate your
life?
 Do you know someone who is very secretive
with hidden agendas?
 Have you ever counseled with someone who
holds back important information needed to
make decisions?
 Do you have problems with vain imaginations?
CONFUSION
I was ministering at a church in Central America
where a demonized woman sitting on the front row
was releasing witchcraft at my translator and me.
Later, my translator told me that he could barely
think during the meeting because his mind became
so overwhelmed with confusion. He couldn’t get his
thoughts in order. That overwhelming confusion
stemmed from the witchcraft that was being released
at his mind. I noticed his impairment as he struggled
to find the words, and it was affecting me, too.
Remember, the blood of Jesus speaks redemption
and life for us and judgment for the enemy (Hebrews
12:24, John 16:11). I knew when we were preaching
that we were in a war against the spirit of witchcraft
and plead the blood of Jesus against it to gain
victory. Scripture says, “Now concerning spiritual
gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant” (1
Corinthians 12:1 KJV).
Notice that the word gifts above is italicized.
When you see a word in the Bible that is italicized it
means that it was not used in the original Greek and
was added by the Bible translators for clarity. In the
111

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
above scripture, the Apostle Paul is referring to
spiritual activity. Literally, this verse could read,
“Now concerning spirituals, brethren, I would not
have you ignorant.” Witchcraft, even though it is
demonic, is a spiritual activity about which we
cannot afford to be ignorant.
There is an increasing force of witchcraft being
released throughout the Body of Christ. Once, when
returning to America from Europe, there was a great
cloud of confusion at the airport. The manifestation
was coming through the people at the baggage area.
Confusion is a sure sign of the presence of
witchcraft. People are not dumb or stupid.
Witchcraft releases confusion that is a sure sign of
one of two things, either idolatry or witchcraft
working against one’s life. I have seen people move
from one location to another and almost become an
entirely different person because they had not made
the adjustments necessary to live in a different
spiritual climate.
SEEDS OF DECEPTION
Witchcraft will get you to live out an imagination.
Witchcraft is cunning. It will have you doing
something unimportant right in the middle of a
church service. It will work on your mind with voices
saying, “You’re driving too far to church. They don’t
understand you anyway. There is no place for you in
that ministry.”
Instead of being able to see necessary changes
you need to make in yourself, witchcraft causes you
to blame others. The focus always comes off of you
and is put onto someone else. Voices of
discouragement will also try to make you feel
rejected and worthless in its attempt to keep you
from growing spiritually.
112

Imaginations and Witchcraft
We must understand that the Spirit of God deals
with us first, not with our neighbors. Understand
the difference? The Spirit of God wants to deal with
you. The spirit of witchcraft will have you focus on
the faults of other people. It tells you that others are
the reason that you are not successful—that blame
is the deception of witchcraft.
Witchcraft plants seeds of deception in your
mind. How many get into arguments with their
spouses before coming to church? How many notice
their children getting rebellious just before church?
What’s happening? Could it be a strategic time for
the enemy to attack? Jesus gave us power to do
something about it. Scripture says,
Behold, I give unto you power to tread on
serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of
the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt
you.
Luke 10:19 KJV
Jesus said that we have authority over “all the
power of the enemy.” We either do or we don’t. Now
since we have power from heaven, then we need to
expose our enemy and deal with him.
As we’ve illustrated, witchcraft releases confusion
in your house, community and church. It
manipulates the people of God by turning one
against another. The Spirit of God is exposing this
by saying, “Tell the church that I don’t work through
vain imaginations, but in their spirits.” The Spirit of
God is not talking to your mind. And it is your
responsibility to renew your mind with the Word so
that imaginary witchcraft attacks are unsuccessful.
And be not conformed to this world: but be ye
transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye
may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and
perfect, will of God.
113

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Romans 12:2 KJV
Jesus is supposed to have authority over your
life; not some spirit that is trying to control you
through imaginations and confusion. Some people
have no idea what they are supposed to do
tomorrow. They are just letting circumstances rule
their life. Let Jesus order the flow of your life; not
your circumstances or the spirit of witchcraft that
brings confusion, blinders, and makes you walk
around in a state of depression.
TO KNOW THE TRUTH
There are those who read teachings like this that
will not receive it because they choose to ignore the
spiritual side of life. The Word declares, “If you know
the truth, the truth will set you free” (John 8:32). You
need to know scriptural truth not just in your head,
but also in your spirit. We must lay hold of the
things of God. It’s God’s Word and power inside our
hearts that will pull us through witchcraft’s
assignments. But if we have no Word inside us, then
we can be easily deceived and overcome.
You can’t conquer the powers of witchcraft if you
refuse to acknowledge its existence. You need to
break free with scriptural truth. People, who refuse
to embrace truth in their lives, are in danger of being
turned over to the very deception that has engulfed
them (2 Peter 2:19).
SUMMARY
The mind must be fortified with scriptural truth.
Witchcraft makes problems appear larger than
they really are.
Witchcraft influences you through your soul,
114

Imaginations and Witchcraft
especially in your emotions.
Witchcraft wants you to act on things that are
not real.
In the final chapter we review our authority to
conquer the powers of witchcraft.
115


TEN
10 OUT OF CONTROL
Now lets look at some powerful ways to protect
ourselves from the attacks of witchcraft.
he first thing that we need to do to break the
influence of witchcraft is to expose it. We can
expose the spirit of witchcraft by understanding how
it acts.
T
EXPOSE IT
Understand the nature of witchcraft.
As we learned in Chapter 1, the spirit of
witchcraft has a nature; it has an art. Its art is the
way it does things. One of the most notable acts of
witchcraft is its ability to release confusion. It does
so by working on the mind through the release of
discouraging imaginations. That’s its art, and that’s
its nature. So we learn how to counteract it by
seeing it for what it is. Witchcraft is most effective
when it is hidden from your understanding.
Exposing it with scriptural truth and spiritual
discernment is the first step to freedom.
PLEAD THE BLOOD
Plead the blood of Jesus over yourself.
This is your most effective weapon. Pleading the
blood of Jesus will help you clear your mind so you
can hear from God. Jesus defeated death, hell, the
117

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
grave, Satan and the powers of darkness on the
cross of Calvary.
GET OUT OF THE MIND
Beware of carnal reasoning.
If witchcraft is releasing confusion into your
mind, you need to step into the realm of faith. Faith
does not work through intellect and reasoning. Your
intellect, many times, will trick you and fool you.
God’s word is true whether you can understand it at
the time or not. Get out of the intellectual realm and
take God’s Word at face value—it’s truth. Stop
touching the divine things of God with your
reasoning. When you touch the things of God with
your mind you open yourself up to confusion and
wondering. Wondering feeds confusion and the
powers of witchcraft. Scripture says,
For though we walk (live) in the flesh, we are not
carrying on our warfare according to the flesh and
using mere human weapons.
2 Corinthians 10:3 AMP
Intellect is a human weapon. It is knowledge that
comes from secular education or experiences.
Secular knowledge can help you a little, but it is a
limited weapon when battling witchcraft. You need
God’s power for that. Our warfare is not natural but
spiritual as the following scripture teaches:
For the weapons of our warfare are not physical
[weapons of flesh and blood], but they are mighty
before God for the overthrow and destruction of
strongholds.
2 Corinthians 10:4 AMP
We cannot fight the spirit of witchcraft with
man’s intellectual reasoning and thinking. We are in
118

Out of Control
a spiritual war against a force called witchcraft and
we need His power and truth to win.
CASTING DOWN IMAGINATIONS
When imaginations hit our mind we must learn
to cast them down immediately. Scripture teaches
us to refute them along with vain reasoning.
[Inasmuch as we] refute arguments and theories
and reasonings and every proud and lofty thing that
sets itself up against the [true] knowledge of God;
and we lead every thought and purpose away
captive into the obedience of Christ (the Messiah, the
Anointed One).
2 Corinthians 10:5 AMP
The spirit of witchcraft will plant doubt and
unbelief into your mind and get you to imagine that
nobody loves you and that everybody else is your
problem. Confusion attacks and you can’t tell if
things are white or black, up or down, left or right as
your mind spins in a whirlwind.
People under the influence of witchcraft will ask
a question and then five minutes later ask the same
question again. That’s confusion. Christian
businessmen have told me that some of their
employees walk around in a daze. It’s the release of
confusion in an attempt to stop God’s purpose in
their lives.
God has a divine purpose and plan for your life. If
you’re not willing to fight against these forces, then
you will not be able to enter into the fullness of
God’s divine purpose. We must fight (labor) to enter
into God’s rest (Hebrews 4:11).
STAND ON THE WORD
119

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
After you have done all—stand.
When we exercise our spiritual authority against
the enemy, we must stand on the Word of God. We
must take captive every contrary thought and
imagination that enters our minds and submit them
to the written Word of God. If your thoughts are
under attack, then believe the Scriptures.
Witchcraft tries to get you to lose your grip on
reality. The Word of God is the reality of your life.
The Word of God is not a theory or something you
do, it is a way you live. If serving God is something
that you do on Sunday morning only, then you are
missing something mighty in your life. The Word of
God is your reality. Step into it and believe.
BIND UP EVERY HIGH THING
Bind up and cast down every high thing.
We need to bind up and cast down imaginations
and all other weapons of witchcraft. What is your
first reaction when the enemy comes at your mind
with depressive thoughts? Do you agree with him, or
do you resist him? Every time witchcraft has
attacked me, I feel like giving up. But Scripture
declares,
Casting down imaginations, and every high
thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of
God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the
obedience of Christ.
2 Corinthians 10:5 KJV
Witchcraft tries to put you in a place where you
are wondering what everybody else thinks about
you. That is deception. God may want you to dance
and shout in church this Sunday. The spirit of
witchcraft, however, will ask, “What about the
person next to you? What will they think about
120

Out of Control
you?” What matters most is what God thinks about
you. If you are lining your life up with God’s Word,
then the rest of your life will fall into place, too.
POSSESS YOUR PROMISES
Carry a different spirit—possess your promises.
Those breaking free from the powers of witchcraft
understand the importance of possessing God’s
promises.
God gave Joshua and Caleb cities in the
Promised Land, but they had to possess them. When
the children of Israel went to possess the land
flowing with milk and honey they found that there
were people occupying the land that did not want to
let their inheritance go. So it is with us. There is a
devil, who is trying to hold on to our possessions,
and we must resist him. We do that, like Joshua and
Caleb, by having a different spirit that is willing to
obey God and fight the resistance.
If you’re still playing church and only attending
because it’s the religiously correct thing to do, then
you cannot stand against the powers of witchcraft.
You cannot possess your inheritance of blessings
while on the earth unless you’re willing to fight for
them.
GET IN CHURCH
Get into a local church.
Being in readiness to punish every
[insubordinate for his] disobedience, when your own
submission and obedience [as a church] are fully
secured and complete.
2 Corinthians 10:6 AMP
121

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
There are no spiritual Rambos in God’s kingdom.
We need to get into the flow of what God is doing
and allow God to position us for battle, with other
believers, against the forces of darkness.
Witchcraft wants to cull you out and separate
you from other believers. That’s what a pack of wild
wolves does to its victim. They look for the weakest
animal in the pack or the stray that has left the
protection of the flock. Then they ambush it and kill
it. That is what the spirit of witchcraft does. It looks
for common ground. Maybe it’s pride. The voice of
witchcraft might say, “You can preach better than
him. Look at them making you vacuum that floor.”
Witchcraft bombards your mind with negative
thoughts like, “It was raining outside and nobody
ran out with an umbrella to help me.” Or other
foolish thoughts like, “That child took the toy from
my child and nobody did anything about it.”
There can be no solo acts in the kingdom of God;
we must all work together. There is an order in the
local church. Your pastor represents the governing
authority in the church. His governing authority is a
matter of fact, not open for opinion and debate. Your
pastor (set man) is the governing authority placed in
the church by God. When he governs he is resisting
the spirit of witchcraft and guarding you, too.
God gives the pastor the ability to see demonic
assignments, expose them and command them to
go. Spiritual stability and freedom from attack come
from submission and accountability. Don’t let
witchcraft isolate you. Get in a local church and
submit to the pastoral leadership. This will help you
break the powers of witchcraft.
KEEP YOUR WORD
122

Out of Control
If you are under the influence of witchcraft, then
you probably are having trouble remaining stable.
We need to bring some stability into your life. Let’s
take a look at how.
First of all, if you are not a man or woman of your
word, or if you make vows and don’t fill them, then
you are susceptible to witchcraft control. If you tell
someone that you are going to be someplace at a
particular time, then you need to be there. By not
developing strong integrity, such as keeping your
word, you set a pattern in your life of being double-
minded and easily swayed from one opinion to
another based on your present circumstances,
public opinion or convenience. Keeping your word is
the first step in developing your character. A person
with solid character and integrity is difficult to
control through witchcraft.
RUN FOR SPIRITUAL COVER
When you’re under attack by the spirit of
witchcraft, run for cover.
This is the time when you certainly should not
run from your local church. You need the spiritual
cover that comes from your pastor or set man. The
Word says, “Submit yourself to God, resist the devil
and he will flee” (James 4:7). You can’t resist
effectively if you are not submitted. One way to
submit to God is through the local church. Don’t be
a casual church attendant. Become a part of a good
Spirit-filled local church, get plugged in and go to
every service.
DON’T FOLLOW GIFTS
Don’t follow gifts, but rather follow fruit.
123

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
You know people by their fruit, not by their
spiritual gifts. When there is a gift in operation—
that’s God. If you want to check out the character of
somebody, however, check out his or her fruit. In
our ministry, we are not looking for people with great
power manifestations of the Holy Spirit, that’s God
in operation. We are looking for people with love in
their hearts, with Christian character and integrity—
that’s the manifestation of spiritual fruit in a
person’s life.
God can use a donkey if He wants to talk to
somebody. So we are not looking for the
manifestation of “gifts.” Again, we are looking for
solid Christian character. Don’t forget that God is
using men and women of character in these last
days. We need to remember that signs follow the
believers, as opposed to believers following signs.
Witchcraft takes the focus off the importance of
character development and places it on the
manifestation of spiritual gifts.
BE CAREFUL WHO PRAYS FOR YOU
Don’t let just anybody lay hands on you and pray
for you.
Don’t let spooky people lay their hands on you
and pray for you. There is transference of spirits
through the laying on of hands. Sometimes you may
find yourself in a situation when the craziest person
around will come and stand right next to you with
the intention of laying their hands on you to pray for
you. If it happens, and there is no way out, then
plead the blood of Jesus over yourself for protection.
And they overcame him by the blood of the
Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they
loved not their lives unto the death.
Revelations 12:11 KJV
124

Out of Control
AVOID CONTROLLERS
Stay away from controllers.
If you are under the influence of witchcraft, then
it needs to be broken off of you in prayer. If people
are trying to control and manipulate you, then they
are being used to release witchcraft at you.
Whenever possible, get away from their influence.
And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done,
and withal how he had slain all the prophets with
the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto
Elijah, saying, so let the gods do to me, and more
also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them
by to morrow about this time. And when he saw
that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to
Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his
servant there.
1 Kings 19:1-3 KJV
When Elijah met the messenger of Jezebel, he
ran away to Beersheba. Obviously, he was hit in his
mind with fear for his life. Coming out from under
that demonic territorial influence of witchcraft,
however, helped Elijah to hear more clearly from
God.
DON’T BATTLE ALONE
If you have been attacked by witchcraft from
people you know, then don’t think that you can help
them. This book is about helping you get free—not
them.
You can reach out to them, but not by yourself.
Use caution and get help from others who are
experienced in dealing with this wicked spirit. Don’t
be alone with them. You are not dealing with natural
forces, but supernatural forces. When you
125

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
understand you are in a spiritual war then you know
the importance of getting some help.
DON’T CARRY WITCHCRAFT’S MESSAGE
Don’t be a messenger.
Witchcraft is the power of Satan on the earth
similar to the Holy Spirit being the power of God on
the earth. Just as faith-filled words release God’s
power, so do words of doubt, unbelief and rebellion
release the force of witchcraft.
One day I noticed a woman operating in a Jezebel
spirit. She was releasing discouraging words against
everyone. She was attacking through accusation
anyone in a position of authority. Then I saw a
witchcraft spirit being transferred from one person to
another when they repeated her accusations. What’s
the point? Don’t be a carrier of the message of
witchcraft. When you repeat witchcraft’s message,
you release its power. If you have repeated its
message because of ignorance, repent.
WATCH FOR REBELLION
Avoid rebellion.
Anytime a person becomes rebellious he opens
the door to witchcraft. Notice the spiritual climate
change in a family, office or church when a
rebellious person enters and stirs up strife.
Pride , stubbornne ss, control, manipulation,
rebellion, false motives and hidden agendas, fuel
witchcraft. Scripture teaches us that rebellion is
witchcraft.
For rebellion is no less a sin than divination, and
stubbornness is like iniquity and idolatry. Because
you have rejected the word of the LORD, he hath
126

Out of Control
also rejected you from being king.
1 Samuel 15:23 NRSVMending Broken Nets and
Broken Fishermen - Larry Lea and Judy Doyle
It’s amazing how many times people hinder the
purpose of God by refusing to humble themselves
under God’s mighty hand. Just give them a little
authority or responsibility and then the test is truly
on.
NEVER FEED PRIDE
Never feed spiritual pride.
The spirit of witchcraft will feed pride. When
witchcraft feeds pride it says things like, “Nobody is
more spiritual than you are. Oh, how deep was that
dream you had last night! How do you get back
when you get out there in the spirit so far? You
prophesy so good, it was so deep nobody understood
it.”
Never, ever feed spiritual pride with flattering
words. Remember, too, King Saul, who was deceived
by witchcraft, wanted to be honored by men and lost
his kingdom.
VESSEL OR VICTIM
Walk away.
Witchcraft does not work alone; it takes two
parties—a giver and a receiver. These two parties
represent vessel and victim. Victims are those who
are being abused, manipulated and controlled, or
those under the general influence of witchcraft.
Vessels are those who are carriers of witchcraft. For
witchcraft to operate there must be someone who
releases its assignments.
The victim is easiest to help; they simply walk
127

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
away from the carrier. The only hope for the carrier
of spiritual witchcraft is humility, submission and,
in some cases, deliverance. (I wrote extensively
about deliverance in my book, Come Out, a
handbook for the serious deliverance minister.)
QUESTIONS
Ask yourself the following questions to find out if
you are susceptible to the influence of spiritual
witchcraft:
 Do you have proble ms with imaginations?
 Are you plugged into a local church?
 Are you hearing voices?
 Have you felt that no one loved you, liked you,
accepted you or wanted you?
 Do you often feel sorry for yourself?
 Do you have self-pity parties?
 Are you a Lone Ranger?
 Do you keep your word?
 Do you find yourself having trouble remaining
emotionally stable?
 Do you have a personal intimate relationship
with the Father, through Jesus Christ, by the
Holy Spirit?
SUMMARY
Pleading the blood of Jesus is your most effective
weapon against witchcraft.
Witchcraft tries to get you to lose your grip on
reality.
A person with solid character and integrity is
128

Out of Control
difficult to control through witchcraft.
Just as faith-filled words release God’s power, so
do words of doubt, unbelief and rebellion release the
force of witchcraft.
Pride , stubbornne ss, control, manipulation,
rebellion, false motives and hidden agendas, fuel
witchcraft.
The spirit of witchcraft will feed pride.
129


CONCLUSION
hroughout the world witchcraft is working to
destroy God’s plan and purpose in the life of His
people. Only the power of the Spirit Himself, working
in us and through us, can break its deceptive grip.
T
Weak praying and nice religious churches cannot
conquer the powers of witchcraft. Neither can loners
acting outside the governing authority of the local
church.
The war for the souls of mankind is intensifying
and every believer must be strong and aware of the
devil’s devices. We, as believers, must take our
positions as bold and courageous people of God. We
must resist Satan’s onslaught of deception and fight
the good fight of faith.
Three important questions remain:
 Will we conform ourse lve s into
compromising religious people that are looking
only to climb some religiously correct ladder?
 Will we try to become the super spiritual
Christian that refuse to be part of any local
fellowship?
 Or will we engage the enemy with our spiritual
weapons and God-given authority and march
victoriously into battle?
The choice is ours.
131


PRAYER
Heavenly Father, thank You for the authority to
battle against the controlling powers of witchcraft, that
attack me. In Jesus name, I bind every negative,
unscriptural word spoken against my life. I break the
power of confusion, torment, fear, control and
manipulation. I take captive every vain imagination
and high thought that is contrary to the word of God
in my life.
I submit my will, thoughts and life to the Lordship
of Christ Jesus and plead the blood of Jesus over my
mind, commanding stability and order to prevail in my
soul.
I break the power of witchcraft’s deception,
seduction, sorcery and intimidation, knowing that at
the name of Jesus every knee must bow.
I decree freedom from dark powers, Jezebel, false
prophetic words, controllers, manipulators ,
sorcerers, witches , counterf eits , soul ties,
spiritual f olly, soothsayers, lying spirits, lying
dreams and visions.
I repent of sin, both known and unknown, and
submit mys elf thoroughl y to the Lordship of
Jesus Christ and His word.
I clothe myself with God’s armor and take up the
weapons of my warfare that are not carnal, but
mighty in the pulling down of strongholds.
I dedicate myself to the will of Jesus Christ alone
for my life.
I repent of rebellion, pride, arrogance,
133

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
spiritualism, control, manipul ation, vain
desires, not being in church, and disrespecting the
five-fold ascension gifts and my leaders.
I renounce wrong associations, carrying
witchcraft’s message, false motives and hidden
agendas.
Lord, Your Word says, “If I confess my sins You
are faithful and just to forgive me of my sins and
cleanse me of all unrighteousness.”
Thank You Jesus that You said You would never
leave me nor forsake me, even to the end of the age.
Amen.
134

LETTERS AND TESTIMONIES
ince I first published Exposing Spiritual
Witchcraft, I’ve received many letters from people
around the world that knew something was wrong,
but just couldn’t put a finger on what it was—until
they read this book. I thank God that He is using
this teaching to expose spiritual witchcraft for the
harmful demonic force that it is. But I am even more
grateful that He is using this book to show victims of
spiritual witchcraft how to fight back and win!
S
I've included a handful of letters to encourage
you to examine your life, expose areas in which this
spirit is attacking you and overcome it.
ONE WOMAN’S REVELATION
Wow! You don’t know how much I can relate to
this. A few years ago after going through a divorce, I
met a guy at church who seemed like Mr. Wonderful.
He asked me all sorts of questions about my life and
seemed so concerned about my daughters and me.
Well, long story short, we married and I have
regretted every day of it. A lady that I didn’t even
know gave me a word of knowledge that he was a
deceiver and that I had been terribly deceived by
him. She was right. Since we married he has cut me
off from my family and verbally attacks my
daughters and me.
He used flattery in the beginning, telling me that
I was the most beautiful woman he had ever met.
Then, after we married, he started telling me that he
knew why my first husband rejected me.
135

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
I have tried and tried to get his approval. I left my
home church to go where he wanted to go. I’ve made
friends here, but when I’ve talked to my pastor about
how my husband treats me and the girls, and how I
can’t make decisions without his approval (I mean
no decisions) my pastor doesn’t believe me because
my husband is so slick in public. He tells everyone
that he has the best wife and talks big about me, but
then in private he tells me that I’m “nothing but a
disgusting piece of crap.”
He used to tell me all the time that I had to
submit to him. Well, his idea of submission was so
out there. My pastor did straighten him out on that,
but I truly believe that my pastor thinks I’m just
exaggerating about all the other stuff. Instead, he
believes what my husband told him: that I have too
much contact with my family. But I hardly talk to
them, and when I am around them I’m extremely
nervous because he finds fault with something I do
or say.
When you described confusion... Unless you’ve
been there you have no idea! At home, it’s constant
confusion and turmoil when he is around. I’m
terrified that my girls or I will say the wrong thing
and set him off. We don’t have to be scared or
confused anymore.
When he thinks that I’m leaving him (which I
have done several times, but the pastor tells me that
I should go back because “it is more detrimental to
the kids” and “God doesn’t approve of this”) my
husband becomes so sweet. He'll go to church and
cry all through service. He'll go to the altar and make
a big show, but any other time he refuses to go to
the altar cause he doesn’t want to give in to the
emotional play of the speaker. He’ll look so
remorseful and I will sit there, hardly able to believe
the elaborate act he is putting on. Then people think
136

Letters and Testimonies
I’m the bad one... because just look at him!
He lies about my daughters to me. They’ll say,
“Mom, that’s not true.” Or he'll lie about (twist)
something that my family supposedly did. I can
never get the story straight. For example, my dad
and two of my brothers are pastors. My husband
told his mother a bunch of sick lies about my dad
and one brother. My husband’s mother then wrote
the district office and tried to get them in major
trouble. Because my family has proven themselves
so much in the past, the district didn’t believe her.
Then, he tried to convince me that my dad had
abused my siblings and me while we were growing
up. When I told him “no this NEVER happened” he
said I had a sick relationship with my dad because I
was defending him.
Now I know what I am dealing with.
—Susan in Chicago
WITCHCRAFT TARGETS MINISTERS
Thank you so very much for this invaluable and
priceless Bible teaching. My husband and I have
been battling this spirit for our entire ministry (in
and out of the church) for more than twenty years,
with no one that was able to confirm our experience
or exposure to this debilitating spirit. Now we can
battle back!
We have not pastored for the last eight or nine
ye ars be cause of this spirit’s debilitating effect
on our ministry, our marriage, financial and
emotional states. We are recovering and coming out
from our cave dwelling. God saved our marriage
when our ministry dissolved, due to lack of support,
jealousy, Jezebel spirits, witchcraft spirits (amongst
our deacons and staff) and religion and tradition.
137

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
We know that God is re storing our ministry
and this same spirit has been raising its ugly head
through a few close so-called Christian friendships
and close family members. However, we have
regained our composure and are fighting the good
fight of faith. Therefore, this teaching is very timely,
for our ministry is apostolic and prophetic in nature.
Truly, God is preparing His Saints for works of
service.
Thank you and God bless you abundantly.
—Debbie in Vermont
SUCCESS AGAINST WITCHCRAFT
Bingo! Boy, does this hit the mark! This explains
a lot of what has been sent my way for the last four
years. Yesterday, I was able to battle against
confusion when my witchcraft adversary came in my
presence. The Lord has done a lot of healing in me
and your writing confirms what He has been
teaching me. Thank you so much.
—Diana in Wichita
138

INVITATION TO DESTINY
Are you hungry for more of
God? In addition to preaching
the Gospel around the world,
we also pastor a powerful,
Spirit-filled church in South
Florida. The Spirit of God told
us to build a church from
which to send forth believers
that could reach their cities and
impact the nations for Jesus
Christ.
Have you been searching for God only to find
religion? Spirit of Life Ministries (SOLM) is a multi-
cultural church where all races gather together in
unity and cares for the needs of the whole family. Is
something missing from your life? SOLM is a church
where you can receive what you need from the Lord.
We believe in divine healing, manifesting the gifts of
the Spirit, prayer results, miracles, prosperity,
finding purpose and making a difference. With God
all things are possible.
Are you looking for a place to grow? SOLM is a
new apostolic church with all five-fold ministry gifts
operating. We have a prophetic call and mandate to
equip, activate and release every believer into the
work of the ministry according to Ephesians 4:11-
12. We invite you to come and connect with your
destiny and receive confirmation, impartation and
activation for your life.
Come adventure with us,
Jonas and Rhonda Clark
139

Exposing Spiritual Witchcraft
Spirit of Life Ministries World Headquarters
27 West Hallandale Beach Blvd.
Hallandale Beach, Fla. 33009
800. 943. 6490 • www.JonasClark.com
140


Want to know more about how to overcome
spiritual enemies, like witchcraft?
Find answers in T H E V O I C E magazine.
Sign up to receive a
FREE Issue of T H E V O I C E magazine at
www.thevoicemagazine.com

New! Pocket-Sized Books
Here’s what you’ll learn: Discern how witchcraft attacks •
Overcome vain imaginations • Unlock prophetic Imaginations
• Protect yourself Jezebel’s prophets • Danger of prophecy
without permission and Entering prophetic ministry.
The Ladies put them in their purses, men in their
pockets. Give them to friends or loved ones as a gift or
equipping tool.
Purchase online at www.JonasClark.com or call
800. 943. 6490
Supplies are limited, so please order now.
