B
243
E64
1872
c.2
ROBA

Jtoitfc.


PHILOSOPHY;
OB,
THE 	ENCHIBIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS,
AND
CHRUSA 	EPE 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS,
TRANSLATED 	INTO 	ENGLISH 	PROSE 	AND 	VERSE,
WITH 	LARGE 	AND 	COPIOUS 	NOTES, 	EXPLANATORY 	OF 	THE 	DIF
FERENT 	SYSTEMS 	OF 	THE 	GRECIAN 	PHILOSOPHY; 	AND
SCRIPTURAL 	REFERENCES 	IN 	ILLUSTRATION 	OF
THE 	MORAL 	PRECEPTS 	INCULCATED 	BY
1HESE 	PHILOSOPHERS.
BY
THE 	HON. 	THOMAS 	TALEOT,
PRINTED 	AND 	PUBLISHED 	BY 	JOHN 	LOVELL, 	ST. 	NICHOLAS 	Sf
1872.


TO 	HIS 	EXCELLENCY
COLONEL 	STEPHEN 	J. 	HILL, 	C.B.,
GOVERNOR 	AND 	COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
IN 	AND 	OVER 	THE
ISLAND 	OF 	NEWFOUNDLAND 	AND 	ITS 	DEPENDENCIES,
THE 	FOLLOWING 	PAGES 	ARE 	INSCRIBED,
AS 	A 	TOKEN 	OF 	ESTEEM 	AND 	REGARD,
BY
THE 	AUTHOR,


PREFACE.
THE 	Enchiridion 	of 	Epictetus, 	as 	the 	name 	itself 	indicates,
(it 	being 	derived 	from 	the 	two 	Greek 	words, 	e&quot;n 	and 	cheir*) 	is
a 	&quot;
Manual&quot; 	of 	the 	Stoic 	Philosophy. 	We 	have, 	perhaps, 	no
production 	of 	the 	ancient 	philosophers 	which 	has, 	at 	all 	times,
and 	from 	all 	classes 	of 	persons, 	met 	with 	more 	deserved 	esteem
and 	just 	admiration 	than 	this 	work 	of 	Epictetus 	; 	which, 	as 	a
Compendium 	of 	the 	Stoic 	Philosophy, 	contains 	the 	essence 	of
all 	that 	was 	good, 	useful, 	and 	instructive 	in 	that 	system. 	Zeno,
the 	founder 	of 	this 	sect 	of 	philosophers, 	was 	a 	man 	who 	en
joyed, 	in 	his 	day, 	the 	respect 	and 	esteem 	of 	all 	who 	knew 	him 	;
and 	no 	man 	could 	be 	more 	highly 	valued, 	or 	looked 	up 	to 	with
a 	greater 	degree 	of 	reverence 	and 	veneration, 	than 	was 	he 	by
his 	countrymen, 	the 	Athenians. 	He 	was 	himself 	a 	model 	and
pattern 	of 	the 	practice 	of 	every 	virtue 	which 	he 	taught, 	and
every 	principle 	which 	he 	inculcated. 	His 	life, 	as 	well 	as 	that
of 	Epictetus, 	and 	of 	all 	those 	who 	walked 	in 	the 	doctrines 	of
the 	&quot;
Porch,&quot; 	was 	distinguished 	for 	strict 	morality, 	propriety
of 	demeanour, 	and 	a 	love 	of 	civil 	liberty.
* 	Greek 	character 	thus, 	Ev 	and

6 	PREFACE.
The 	doctrines 	of 	the 	Stoics 	were 	gathered 	from 	the 	various
schools 	of 	Philosophy 	which 	had 	preceded 	them, 	and 	embraced
a 	system 	constituted 	of the 	best 	and 	purest, 	soundest 	and 	most
beautiful 	portions 	of 	the 	precepts 	emanating 	from 	the 	schools
of 	Thales, 	Solon, 	Socrates, 	Plato, 	Aristotle, 	and 	Antisthenes 	;
forming 	a 	code 	of 	moral 	instruction 	the 	fairest, 	the 	least
exceptionable, 	and 	the 	best 	of 	any 	springing 	from 	the 	foun
tains 	of 	heathen 	antiquity. 	Hence 	the 	work 	now 	presented 	to
the 	public, 	in 	a 	garb 	entirely 	new, 	is 	unquestionably 	the 	best
moral 	production 	of 	the 	ancient 	schools.
I 	shall 	here 	take 	leave 	to 	cite 	one 	passage 	from 	a 	modern
writer, 	who 	holds 	no 	mean 	place 	amongst 	those 	who 	have
written 	upon 	the 	subject 	of 	the 	doctrines 	and 	morals 	of 	the
heathen 	philosophers 	; 	and 	I 	do 	so, 	in 	order 	to 	give 	my 	read
ers 	an 	idea 	of the 	nature 	and 	tendency 	of 	the 	Stoic 	Philosophy,
and 	of 	the 	estimation 	in 	which 	its 	founder 	was 	held 	by 	the
men 	of 	his 	day 	:
&quot;
It 	was 	very 	true,&quot; 	observes 	this 	writer,
&quot;
that 	Zeno 	intended 	to 	study 	the 	various 	tenets 	of 	other 	phil
osophers, 	and 	from 	them 	to 	form 	a 	new 	system 	of 	his 	own.
He 	now 	commenced 	teaching 	; 	and 	chose 	for 	the 	place 	of 	his
school 	the 	Poecile, or 	Painted 	Porch, 	a 	portico 	adorned 	with
paintings, 	and 	so 	much 	more 	beautiful 	than 	any 	other 	portico
in 	Athens 	that 	it 	was 	called 	for 	distinction, 	Stoa, 	The 	Porch.
From 	this 	circumstance, 	his 	followers 	were 	named 	Stoics, 	or
Disciples 	of 	the 	Porch. 	His 	school 	was 	soon 	crowded 	by
disciples 	who 	excelled 	in 	subtle 	reasoning, 	at 	that 	time very
popular 	; 	and 	in his 	doctrines 	he 	recommended 	strict 	morality,
of 	which 	his 	life 	formed 	so 	pleasing 	a 	picture 	that 	he 	was
very 	much 	beloved 	by 	the 	Athenians. 	So 	highly 	did 	they

PREFACE. 	7
esteem 	him, 	that 	they 	deposited 	the 	keys 	of 	the 	city 	in 	his
hands, 	as 	if 	he 	were 	the 	only 	trusty 	keeper 	of 	their 	liberties 	;
they 	bestowed 	upon 	him 	likewise 	a 	golden 	crown, 	and
erected 	a 	brass 	statue 	of 	him.&quot;
Let 	me 	now 	proceed 	to 	give 	some 	account 	of 	the 	manner 	in
which 	I 	have 	discharged 	my 	office 	of 	translator 	of 	the 	follow
ing 	work. 	The 	original 	of 	the 	Enchiridion 	of 	Epictetus 	is
divided 	into 	small 	chapters, 	many 	of 	which 	are 	merely 	a 	contin
uation 	of 	the 	subjects 	in 	the 	preceding 	ones. 	I 	have 	stepped
aside 	from 	this 	arrangement, 	and 	cut 	the 	work 	into 	sections,
some 	of 	which 	embrace 	two 	or 	more 	of 	these 	chapters. 	In
making 	this 	disposition, 	I 	have 	been 	influenced 	solely 	by 	the
desire 	of 	setting 	the 	precepts 	of 	the 	Enchiridion 	in 	the 	most
agreeable 	and 	acceptable 	shape 	possible 	before 	the 	English
reader, 	desiring 	thereby 	to 	invest 	them 	with 	the 	highest 	degree
of 	attraction 	of 	which 	I 	have 	thought 	them 	capable. 	With
the 	same 	view 	have 	I 	placed, 	at 	the 	commencement 	of 	each
Section, 	an 	analysis 	of 	its 	contents, 	or, 	perhaps, 	I 	should 	rather
say, 	a 	prose 	version 	of 	these, 	adapted, 	in 	train 	of 	idea 	and
mode 	of expression, 	to 	the 	doctrines 	and 	phraseology 	of 	Chris
tian 	philosophers. 	The 	notes 	I 	have 	inserted 	in 	order 	to
illustrate 	the 	text, 	and 	make 	it 	clear 	and 	intelligible 	to 	readers
of 	every 	capacity 	; 	and 	the 	information 	upon 	which 	such 	of
them 	as 	refer 	to 	points 	of 	antiquity 	and 	philosophy 	are 	based,
has 	been 	derived 	from 	the 	best 	and 	most 	authentic 	sources.
With 	respect 	to 	the 	Scriptural 	references, 	at 	the 	bottom 	of
the 	pages, 	I 	must 	observe, 	what, 	no 	doubt, 	will 	immediately
strike 	the 	eye 	of 	every 	reader 	of 	the 	ancient authors 	of 	Greece
and 	Rome, 	whether 	these 	authors 	be 	clothed 	in 	their 	native

PREFACE.
attire, 	or 	appear 	in 	one 	of 	the 	less 	suited 	vestments 	of 	later
times, 	tb.at 	these 	references 	present 	a 	novel 	aspect 	in 	the
department 	of 	classical 	literature 	; 	for 	it 	is 	not 	often 	we 	find
an 	ancient 	heathen 	author 	elucidated 	by 	passages 	taken 	from
Holy 	Writ. 	For 	my 	own 	part 	I 	cannot 	just 	now 	bring 	to
my 	recollection 	the 	having 	ever 	seen 	a 	single 	comparison
between 	an 	ancient 	author 	and 	the 	Sacred 	Writings, 	drawn
by 	any 	translator or 	commentator 	of 	our 	times 	; 	while 	we 	find
abundant 	parallels 	instituted 	by 	those 	Oracles, 	both 	ancient
and 	modern, 	between 	the 	ancients, 	drawn 	from 	the 	writings
of 	the 	ancients 	themselves. 	Yet 	I 	cannot 	see 	why 	the 	trans
lator 	of 	an 	old 	book, 	or 	the 	commentator 	upon 	an 	ancient
author, 	should 	not 	apply 	the 	doctrines 	and 	precepts 	of 	the
ancient 	heathens 	to 	the 	touch-stone 	of the 	Divine 	Word 	; 	and
thus 	measure 	the 	merit 	or 	demerit, 	the 	price 	or 	worthlessness,
in 	a 	moral 	point 	of 	view, 	of 	those 	ancient 	volumes. 	Surely,
the 	nearer 	approach 	any 	one 	of 	those 	authors 	makes 	to 	the
purity 	of 	moral, 	social 	and 	natural 	doctrine 	which 	is 	set 	forth
in 	God 	s 	own 	Living 	Volume, 	the 	closer 	must 	be 	the 	approxi
mation 	he 	must 	necessarily 	make 	to 	excellence 	and 	perfection,
and 	the 	more 	fit 	must 	he 	be 	to 	be 	placed 	in 	the 	hands 	of
enquiring 	youth, 	to 	be 	by 	them 	read 	and 	studied. 	I 	have
appended 	these 	references 	from 	two 	motives 	; 	the 	first 	was
the 	personal 	satisfaction 	which 	I 	felt 	in 	showing 	forth 	the
moral 	beauty 	of 	my 	author 	; 	and 	the 	second, 	the 	sincere 	desire
which 	I 	entertain 	to 	see 	classical 	students 	employ 	this test 	in
rating 	the 	relative 	merits 	of the 	authors 	they 	read 	in 	the 	course
of 	their 	studies 	; 	thus 	rendering 	their 	study 	of the 	ancients
and 	their 	language 	auxiliary 	to 	a 	knowledge 	of, 	and 	an 	intimate

PREFACE.
acquaintance 	with 	the 	Inspired 	Writings. 	It 	is, 	perhaps,
necessary 	to 	observe 	here 	that 	some 	of 	these 	references 	are
made 	to 	books 	which 	some 	persons 	are 	unwilling 	to 	admit
within 	the 	precincts 	of 	the 	Sacred 	Scriptures 	; 	such 	are 	the
apocalypse 	of 	St. 	John, 	the 	epistle 	to 	the 	Hebrews, 	etc. 	For
such 	persons, 	therefore, 	these 	books 	must 	only 	answer 	as
old 	records 	of 	wise 	and 	salutary 	doctrines, 	and 	most 	beautiful
precepts 	; 	though, 	for 	my 	own 	part, 	I 	must 	say, 	with 	Grotius,
&quot;Neque 	vero 	causa 	idonea 	fingi 	potest,cur 	illos 	libros 	quis-
quam 	supposuerit 	; 	cum 	nihil 	inde 	colligi 	possit, 	quod 	non 	aliis
indubitatis 	libris 	abimde 	contineatur.&quot; 	(Grot. 	De 	ver. 	Chris.
Rel. 	Lib. 	3.) 	All 	the 	references 	are 	taken 	from 	the 	&quot;
Latin
Vulgate.&quot;
As 	to 	any 	poetic 	fame 	which 	I 	may 	be thought 	desirous 	of
obtaining 	from 	this 	performance, 	candor 	obliges 	me 	to 	con
fess 	that 	this 	is 	with 	me 	a 	mere 	secondary 	consideration. 	But
I 	am 	not 	indifferent 	as 	to 	how 	it 	may 	be 	received 	; 	upon 	this
point 	I 	am, 	decidedly, 	most 	anxious. 	If 	I 	have 	succeeded 	in
rendering 	the 	Precepts 	of 	Epictetus 	attractive 	to 	the 	English
reader, 	thereby 	causing 	them 	to 	be 	more 	generally 	sought
after 	and 	studied, 	I 	have 	attained 	the 	chief 	end 	which 	I 	sought
by 	this 	Translation. 	Few, 	indeed, 	comparatively 	speaking,
read 	this 	beautiful 	work 	in 	the 	original 	text 	; 	very 	many 	even
of 	those 	who 	have 	passed 	through 	their 	classical 	course 	in 	the
Seminaries 	of 	learning 	have 	not 	read 	it 	; 	for, 	strange 	to say,
it 	is 	not 	generally 	included 	in 	the 	&quot;Course,&quot; 	while 	works, 	not
only 	of 	inferior 	merit, 	but 	of 	scarcely 	any 	merit 	at 	all, 	are 	set
down 	as 	of 	essential 	utility. 	This 	is 	the 	first 	time 	that 	the
Enchiridion&quot; 	has 	been 	put 	into 	English 	verse 	; 	at 	all 	events.

10 	PREFACE.
as 	far 	as 	I 	am 	cognizant 	of 	the 	fact. 	Whether 	I 	have 	achieved
the 	task 	in 	a 	suitable 	manner 	it 	is 	for 	the 	public 	to 	judge. 	I
have 	never 	read 	any 	translation 	of 	this 	work 	save 	a 	Latin 	ver
sion 	by 	an 	Oxford 	scholar, 	which 	was 	published 	upwards 	of 	a
century 	ago, 	and 	dedicated 	to 	the 	then 	Bishop 	of 	Bristol. 	One
of 	the 	&quot;
Daciers&quot; 	has 	made 	a 	version 	of 	it 	in 	the 	French 	lan
guage, 	but 	this 	I 	have 	not 	read.
Perhaps, 	it 	is 	necessary 	that 	I 	should, 	in 	this 	place, 	observe,
with 	respect 	to 	the 	circumstance 	of 	my 	turning 	a 	philosophi
cal 	prose 	work 	into 	verse, 	that 	I 	can 	plead 	precedents 	for 	it 	;
although 	no 	such 	justification 	can, 	in 	reason 	and 	justice, 	be
necessary 	; 	since 	it 	is 	equally 	proper 	to 	translate 	prose 	into
poetry, 	as 	to 	compose 	an 	original 	poem 	out 	of 	historical 	or
fictitious 	records 	in 	prose, 	which 	is 	the 	common 	practice 	of
our 	times. 	Even 	Gibbon 	represents 	the 	immortal 	Tasso 	as
having &quot;
copied 	the 	minutest 	details 	of 	the 	siege 	of 	Jerusalem
from 	the 	Chronicles 	;&quot;
and 	makes 	this 	a 	great 	point 	of 	merit
in 	the 	poet. 	With 	regard 	to 	the 	following 	version, 	it 	only
remains 	for 	me 	to 	say 	that 	I 	have 	adhered 	as closely 	to 	the
text 	as 	was 	necessary 	in 	order 	to 	convey 	the 	exact 	sense 	of 	my
author 	; 	without, 	at 	the 	same 	time, 	pressing 	myself 	up 	in 	a
corner, 	and 	debarring 	myself 	from 	that 	liberty 	of 	poetic 	dic
tion, 	as 	well 	as 	turn 	of 	expression 	suited 	to 	the 	necessities 	of
poetry. 	In 	one 	word, 	I 	have 	observed 	the 	precept 	of 	Horace
touching 	this 	matter 	:
&quot;
Nee 	verbum 	verbo 	curabis 	reddere, 	fidus
Interpres 	: 	nee 	desilies 	imitator 	in 	arctum
TJnde 	pedem 	referre 	pudor 	vetet, 	aut 	operis J.ex.&quot;

PREFACE. 	11
The 	precepts, 	beautiful, 	and 	sublime 	! 	embraced 	in 	the 	fol
lowing 	work, 	are, 	in 	an 	eminent 	degree, 	calculated 	to 	promote
the 	peace 	and 	happiness 	of 	social 	life 	: 	they 	contain 	the 	essen
tials 	of 	rational 	liberty, 	and 	social 	happiness 	: 	they 	find 	an
echo 	in 	God 	s 	own 	Book 	; 	and 	the 	man 	who 	reads 	them 	and
amalgamates 	them 	with 	his 	thoughts 	throughout 	the 	whole
course 	of 	his 	actions, 	must 	feel 	much 	happiness 	himself, 	and
be 	the 	means 	of 	diffusing 	a 	peaceful 	and 	happy 	influence
around 	him. 	Here 	we 	find 	inculcated 	in 	direct 	terms, 	as 	well
as 	induced 	by 	a 	consecutive 	train 	of 	reasoning, 	the 	two-fold
basis 	on 	which 	all 	Christian 	Divines 	repose 	the 	happiness 	of
men, 	namely, 	purity 	of 	conscience, 	and 	contentment 	with 	our
condition. 	So 	apposite 	to 	this 	point 	are 	the 	observations 	of
the 	author 	of 	&quot;
Reflexions 	sur 	le 	veritable 	bonheur,&quot; 	a 	Chris
tian 	philosopher, 	and 	most 	accurate 	reasoner, 	that 	I 	shall 	take
leave 	of 	the 	reader 	to 	quote 	them 	here. 	He 	says, 	referring
to 	these 	two 	conditions 	of 	human 	happiness, &quot;
La 	premiere
est, 	de 	posseder 	une 	conscience 	sans 	reproche, 	d 	esperer 	une
heureuse 	eternite 	apres 	cette 	vie, 	et 	de 	savoir 	vivre 	dans
toutes 	les 	conditions 	dans 	lesquelles 	on 	peut 	se 	rencontrer.
La 	seconde 	est, 	de 	jouir 	de 	toute 	la 	prosperite 	dont 	on 	peut
jouir 	dans 	la 	condition 	ou 	Ton 	est 	actuellement, 	soit 	que 	cette
condition 	soit 	celle 	ou 	on 	est 	ne, 	soit 	que 	e 	en 	soit 	une 	autre,
ou 	plus 	haute 	ou 	plus 	basse. 	Car 	il 	n 	importe 	dans 	quelle
condition 	Ton 	soit, 	il 	n 	importe 	que 	Ton 	monte 	ou 	que 	Ton
descende, 	tout 	ce 	que 	il 	est 	permis 	de 	souhaiter, 	c 	est 	d 	etre
aussi 	heureux 	qu 	on 	le 	peut 	etre 	dans 	celle 	ou 	Ton 	se 	trouve
actuellement.&quot; 	And 	again, &quot;
Ainsi, 	quand 	il 	s 	agira 	d 	un
bonheur 	constant 	et 	invariable 	sur 	la 	terre, 	il 	est 	certain 	qu 	il

12 	PREFACE.
ne 	faudra 	le 	composer 	que 	de 	la 	premiere 	partic. 	La 	prolite,
la 	consolation 	de 	Vesperance, 	et 	la 	science 	de 	St. 	Paul, 	de
savoir 	se 	contenter 	de 	Vetat 	ou 	I 	on 	se 	trouve 	; 	Jest 	tout 	ce 	sur
quoi 	on 	puisse faire fond 	en 	ce 	monde; 	c est 	tout 	ce 	qui ne 	sau-
roit 	nous 	etre 	ote 	sans 	notre 	cons&ntement.&quot;
Thus 	does 	this 	Christian 	philosopher 	establish 	all 	human
happiness 	upon 	contentment, 	and 	a 	good 	conscience. 	This,
too, 	is 	the 	doctrine 	of 	St. 	Paul 	; 	and 	who 	that 	reads 	the 	follow
ing 	pages 	can 	fail 	to 	observe 	that 	such 	is 	the 	doctrine 	chiefly
insisted 	upon 	by 	Epictetus, 	the 	heathen 	philosopher, 	the 	fol
lower 	of 	Zeno, 	a 	disciple 	of 	the 	Stoic 	school. 	It 	is, 	therefore,
a 	matter 	of 	no 	small 	consideration 	that 	the 	reading 	and 	study
of 	this 	beautiful 	author 	should 	be 	both 	facilitated 	and 	encour
aged 	; 	for, 	although 	every 	book, 	and 	every 	system 	of 	morals
must 	ever 	fall 	infinitely 	short 	of 	the 	Book 	of 	Life, 	and 	of 	the
system 	of 	Ethics 	therein 	contained, 	yet, 	(as 	we 	find 	it 	in 	the
book 	of 	Ecclesiasticus,) &quot;
the 	wise 	man 	will 	seek 	out 	the
wisdom 	of 	all 	the 	ancients 	;&quot; 	and, &quot;
he 	will 	keep 	the 	sayings
of 	renowned 	men.&quot;
In 	conclusion, 	let 	me 	hope 	that 	my 	humble 	labours, 	on 	the
present 	occasion, 	may 	be 	attended 	with 	the 	attainment 	of 	the
chief 	object 	contemplated 	by 	them, 	viz., 	a 	more 	general ac
quaintance 	with 	the 	precepts 	of 	the 	Enchiridion 	of 	Epictetus
than 	has 	hitherto 	prevailed 	; 	and 	for 	any 	defects 	which 	may
appear 	in 	this 	performance, 	I 	ask 	the 	indulgence- 	of 	the 	pub
lic 	in 	the 	language 	of 	the 	Latin 	Translator 	of 	this 	work, 	in
his 	Dedication 	to 	the 	Bishop 	of 	Bristol 	:
&quot;
Dabis 	autem
veniam, 	Reverende 	Pater, 	non 	mihi 	tantum, 	si 	quid 	in 	hoc
opere 	peccaverim, 	sed 	et 	Epicteto, 	si 	quid Ipse 	forte 	erraverit,&quot;

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	1,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FIRST, 	SECOND 	AND 	THIRD 	CHAPTERS,
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is 	extremely 	unwise 	to 	extend 	our 	views 	beyond 	our 	pro
per 	spheres.
I.
How 	various 	are 	those 	things 	which 	claim 	the 	care
Of 	restless 	man 	in 	Life 	s 	contracted 	sphere.
Some 	lie 	within 	his 	scope 	Ambition 	s 	dream,
Desire, 	Love, 	Hatred, 	Envy 	s 	wasting 	flame.
Some 	fly 	his 	grasp 	; 	nor 	can 	his 	will 	control
Wealth, 	Glory, 	Honour 	; 	Idols 	of 	his 	soul.
Unyielding 	things, 	these 	mock 	his 	fond 	embrace,
And 	those 	supply 	and 	claim 	the 	vacant 	place.
II.
Those 	things 	within our 	pow 	r 	by 	Nature 	placed
Unfettered 	are, 	and 	by 	fair 	Freedom 	graced 	:
While 	those 	without, 	a 	sickly 	servile 	race,
Nor 	Liberty 	can 	boast, 	nor 	resting 	place 	;
Impotent 	slaves 	of 	never-ceasing 	toil,
The 	trembling 	offspring 	of 	a 	foreign 	soil.

14 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
III.
Pause 	then 	and 	note 	unerring 	Nature 	s 	law 	;
Twixt 	things 	opposed 	a 	due 	distinction 	draw 	:
What 	is 	a 	slave 	by 	Nature 	s 	fix 	d 	decree,
Mistake 	not 	for the 	chainless 	and 	the 	free.
(a) 	All 	foreign 	right 	with 	thy 	whole 	heart 	disown,
Nor 	deem 	another 	s 	privilege 	thine 	own 	:
(b) 	Since 	straying 	without 	the 	limits 	of 	thy 	sphere
Brings 	grief 	of 	mind 	and 	soul-corroding 	care;
Ire, 	discontent, 	possess 	thy 	mind 	within 	;
And 	rage 	employs 	thy 	tongue 	gainst 	God 	and 	men.
Who 	knows 	another 	s 	rights, 	and 	knows 	his 	own,
And 	bounds 	his 	wishes 	by 	just 	claims 	alone 	;
Who 	grants 	to 	all 	what 	things 	to 	them 	belong,
Thro 	Life 	s 	rough 	way 	moves 	peacefully 	along.
Act 	thus 	: 	thou 	need 	st 	not 	outward 	violence 	fear 	;
Serene 	and 	peaceful 	shall 	be 	thy 	career.
For 	thee 	no 	foe 	in 	ambuscade 	shall 	lie,
To 	watch 	thy 	footsteps 	with 	a 	treach 	rous 	eye.
In 	legal 	conflicts, 	broils, 	and 	party 	rage
Thy 	will 	shall 	never 	lead 	thee 	to 	engage.
None 	at 	thy 	hands 	shall 	injury 	receive 	;
And 	none 	shall 	cause 	thy 	honest 	heart 	to 	grieve.
O) 	I 	speak 	not 	as 	it 	were 	for 	want. 	For 	I 	have 	learned,
in 	whatsoever 	state 	I 	am, 	to 	be 	content 	therewith. 	Philippians,
4 	chap., 	11 ver.
(5) 	Strive 	not 	in 	a 	matter 	which 	doth 	not 	concern 	thee,
and 	sit 	not 	in 	judgment 	with 	sinners. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	11 	chap.,
9 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	I 	Tim., 6 	chap,, 	9 	ver,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	15
SECTION 	2,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FOURTH, 	FIFTH 	AND 	SIXTH CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION,
We 	should 	never 	give 	the 	certain 	for 	the 	uncertain, 	nor
grasp 	at 	those 	things 	placed 	without 	our 	reach. 	Imaginary
ills 	contain 	more 	poignancy 	than 	real 	evils.
IV.
Sure, 	bliss 	like 	this 	the 	human 	heart 	must 	please 	: 	-
Then 	eager 	thou 	the 	proffered 	blessing 	seize.
Give 	o 	er 	all 	other 	aims, 	at 	least 	awhile 	;
() 	And 	let 	Contentment 	glad 	thee 	with 	her 	smile.
Yet 	should 	thy 	thoughts 	to 	other 	objects 	stray,
And 	wealth, 	and 	power, 	before 	thy 	vision 	play,
Take 	heed 	thou 	lose not, 	thro 	thy 	zeal 	for 	gain,
Both 	what 	thou 	hast, 	and 	what 	thou 	would 	st 	attain;
Wealth, 	Power, 	are 	bubbles 	placed 	without 	thy 	scope,
Which 	bring 	but 	grief 	and 	disappointed 	hope.
For 	them 	is 	paid 	that 	which 	alone 	(vast 	fee 	!)
Might 	make 	thee 	happy 	and 	might 	make 	thee 	free.
(a) 	All 	the 	days 	of 	the 	poor 	are 	evil 	: 	a 	secure 	mind 	is 	like
a 	continual 	feast. 	Better 	is 	a 	little 	with 	the 	fear 	of 	the Lord,
than 	great 	treasures 	without 	content. 	Proverbs, 	15 	chap.,
16-16 	ver,

1 6 	THE 	ENCHIRID1 ON . 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
V.
Should 	some 	bright 	image 	in 	thy 	vision 	rise,
And 	stand 	attractive 	to 	thy 	glistening 	eyes,
Thus 	ponder 	:
&quot;
What 	! 	thou 	art 	a 	shapeless 	thing.
Light 	fleeting 	vapour 	borne 	on 	Fancy 	s 	wing 	;
A 	gaudy 	phantom, 	flattering 	to 	the 	view,
But 	lacking 	substance 	; 	shadowy, 	and 	untrue.&quot;
Pause, 	mark 	its 	features, 	and 	survey 	it 	well 	;
Apply 	thy 	Kules, 	but 	chiefly 	this, 	twill 	tell.
&quot;
Of 	what 	class 	this,&quot; 	thus 	speak, 	dispel 	the doubt,
&quot;
Of 	things 	within 	our 	sphere, 	or 	things 	without.&quot;
The 	latter 	? 	drive 	it 	on 	its 	frail 	career
Way 	from 	thy 	breast, 	nor 	give 	it 	refuge 	there.
VI.
(a) 	To 	sigh 	for 	things 	beyond 	our 	power 	to 	gain,
And 	dread 	those 	evils 	which 	we 	can 	t 	restrain,
Are 	ills 	indeed. 	(A 	wish 	when 	unconfmed
Finds 	Disappointment 	surely 	hang 	behind 	;
And 	shrinking 	at 	the 	fate 	we 	can 	t 	avert
Gives 	double 	point 	and 	venom 	to 	the 	dart.)
Thy 	care 	should 	be 	to 	limit 	thy 	desires,
Nor 	covet 	aught 	save 	what 	thy 	state 	requires 	;
To 	fear 	no 	ills 	which 	human 	kind 	betide,
And 	guard 	gainst 	those 	alone 	thou 	canst 	avoid.
O) 	Seek 	not 	the 	things 	that 	are 	too 	high 	for 	thee, 	and
search 	not 	into 	things 	above 	thy 	ability 	; 	but 	the 	things 	that
God 	hath 	commanded 	thee, 	think 	on 	them 	always, 	and 	in 	many
of 	his 	works 	be 	not 	curious. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	3 	chap., 	22 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	17
Disease, 	Death, 	Famine 	fall 	to 	man 	s 	estate 	;
Fear 	not 	those 	ills 	the 	human 	race 	await.
From 	helpless 	fears 	the 	deepest 	sorrow 	flows,
And 	blind 	illusions 	heighten 	all 	our 	woes.

18 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	3, 	i
CONTAINING 	THE 	SEVENTH, 	EIGHTH 	AND 	NINTH 	CHARTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is 	a 	folly 	to 	be 	over 	solicitous 	even 	about 	those 	things
which 	are 	placed 	within our 	power, 	since 	all 	things 	terrestrial
contain 	within 	them 	the 	essence 	of 	decay. 	We 	should 	be
always 	prepared 	for 	reverses.
VII.
(a) 	Then 	pant 	not 	for, 	nor 	view 	with 	restless 	soul
Those 	accidents 	that 	mock 	at 	man 	s 	control 	;
Nor 	be 	o 	er 	anxious 	still, 	nor 	strive 	amain,
To 	grasp 	e 	en 	things 	within 	thy 	own 	domain.
-j- 	Restrain 	Desire, 	this 	moment 	call 	thine 	own,
He 	meets 	defeat 	who 	takes 	his 	aim 	too 	soon.
Or 	near, 	or 	distant, 	should 	the 	object 	lie
Which 	wings 	thy 	thought 	and 	strains 	thy 	longing 	eye 	;
Be 	prudent 	still, 	guard 	well 	thy 	balanced 	mind,
From 	Passion 	free, 	to 	Eeason 	e 	er 	inclined.
(,) 	Therefore 	I 	say 	to 	you, 	be 	not 	solicitous 	for 	your 	life
what 	you 	shall 	eat, 	nor 	for 	your 	body 	what 	you 	shall 	put 	on.
Is 	not 	the 	life 	more 	than 	the 	meat 	; 	and 	the 	body 	more 	than
the 	raiment 	? 	Matthew, 	6 	chap., 	25 	ver.
f 	Seefiote 	A,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION OF 	EPICTETUS. 	19
VIII.
Some 	things 	there 	be 	which 	yield 	thee 	true 	delight,
Of 	beauteous 	shape 	and 	witching 	to 	the 	sight 	;
Some 	bring 	thee 	joy 	; 	from 	some 	advantage 	flows 	;
And 	love 	of 	some 	to 	highest 	rapture 	grows 	;
Yet 	give 	not 	thou 	to 	these 	thy 	yielding 	soul,
But 	bow 	thy 	will 	to 	Reason 	s 	wise 	control 	;
Mark 	well 	their 	nature, 	view 	in 	them 	decay
Vain, 	frail, 	light, 	glittering 	bubbles 	of 	a 	day.
The 	painted 	vase, 	the 	children 	we 	admire,
The 	faithful 	wife 	whose 	charms 	may 	never 	tire,
(a) 	Are 	fading 	all 	; 	and 	all 	shall 	pass 	away 	;
Since 	all 	were 	made 	to 	wither 	and 	decay.
So 	let 	not 	sorrow 	wring 	thy aching 	heart
When 	things 	once 	valued 	founder 	and 	depart.
IX.
When 	to 	some 	task 	thou 	dost 	thy 	mind 	apply,
First 	cast 	o 	er 	all 	its 	parts 	a 	searching 	eye 	;
Thus 	to 	the 	Bath 	should 	thou, 	perchance, 	repair,
Now 	pause 	and 	think 	what 	ills 	may 	meet 	thee 	there 	;
Malicious duckings, 	thefts, 	and 	high-toned 	strife,
Upbraidings 	vile, 	and 	stale 	abuse 	are 	rife
Where 	flows 	the 	Bath 	; 	mark, 	then 	; 	thy 	mind 	prepare
The 	lights 	and 	shades 	with 	soul 	resigned 	to 	share.
() 	All 	things 	have 	their 	season, 	and 	in 	their 	times
things 	pass 	under 	heaven, 	Ecclesiasticus, 	phap,, 	1 	yer,

20 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
&quot;
I 	seek 	the 	Bath,&quot; 	thus 	be 	thy 	thoughts 	inclined 	;
(a) 	For 	haps 	prepared 	with 	an 	unshrinking 	mind,
And 	hence, 	whatever 	the 	work 	thou 	dost 	begin,
Unruffled 	peace 	shall 	crown 	thy 	heart 	within.
Let 	haps 	befall 	thee, 	growing 	ills 	betide,
Yet 	from 	thy 	fixed 	resolve 	ne 	er 	turn 	aside 	;
j- 	To 	Nature 	s 	voice 	unerring 	still 	adhere,
Firm 	be 	thy 	mind, 	and 	peaceful 	thy 	career.
O) 	Be 	steadfast 	in 	the 	way 	of 	the 	Lord, 	and 	in 	the 	truth
of 	thy 	judgment, 	and 	in 	knowledge, 	and 	let 	the 	word 	of 	peace
and 	justice 	keep 	with 	thee. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	5 	chap., 	12 	ver.
t 	See 	note 	B.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	21
SECTION 	4,
CONTAINING 	THE 	TENTH 	AND 	ELEVENTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
The 	ills 	of 	human 	life 	are 	ofttimes 	more 	imaginary 	than
real 	; 	and 	men, 	while 	they 	call 	up 	those 	fantasies 	of 	a 	dis
ordered 	mind, 	are 	ever 	more 	prone 	to 	place 	them, 	as 	real 	evils,
at 	the 	door 	of 	others, 	than 	to 	acknowledge 	them 	as 	the 	effect
of 	their 	own 	vicious 	conduct, 	or 	the 	offspring 	of 	their 	infatu
ated 	minds.
True 	greatness 	consists 	in 	virtue 	alone. 	Real 	merit, 	and
not 	the 	mere 	glitter 	of 	outward 	show, 	must 	form 	the 	basis 	of
dignity 	and 	of 	honour.
X.
(a) 	Whence 	springs 	this 	fear 	? 	why 	grows 	thy 	visage 	pale 	?
Say, 	why 	doth 	grief 	thy 	inward 	peace 	assail 	?
What 	! 	things 	like 	these 	to 	vex 	thy 	heaving 	breast,
To 	rob 	thy 	soul 	of 	happiness 	and 	rest 	!
Ah, 	sure 	in 	these 	no 	cause 	of 	trouble 	lies,
Tis 	human 	doctrine 	paints 	it 	to 	our 	eyes.
t 	Death 	has 	no 	sting 	; 	so 	Socrates 	has taught 	;
By 	man 	s 	false 	dogmas 	is 	the 	phantom 	wrought.
O) 	The 	patient 	man 	is 	better 	than 	the 	valiant 	; 	and 	he
that 	ruleth 	his 	spirit, 	than 	he 	that 	taketh 	cities. 	Lots 	are 	cast
into 	the 	lap, 	but 	they 	are 	disposed 	of 	by 	the 	Lord. 	Prov., 	16
chap., 	32-33 	ver.
t 	See 	note 	C.

22 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Thus 	all 	our 	woes 	spring 	from 	ourselves 	alone 	;
Affliction, 	Slav 	ry, 	Grief, 	they 	are 	all 	our 	own 	;
And 	he 	whose 	acts 	bring 	sorrow 	on 	his 	head
Should 	not 	another 	with 	his 	woes 	upbraid.
The 	wise 	man 	never 	doth 	his 	acts 	disown 	;
His 	faults 	are 	all 	acknowledged 	as 	his 	own.
His 	deeds 	not 	even 	Wisdom 	s 	student 	tries
To 	fix 	on 	others 	: 	this 	alone 	th 	unwise
And 	vicious 	ever 	do 	; 	let 	come 	what 	will
Each 	crime 	they 	lay 	on 	others 	shoulders 	still.
Not 	so 	the 	man 	in 	Wisdom 	s 	precepts 	school 	d
Whose 	deeds 	of 	candour 	sterling 	worth 	unfold.
XI.
How 	now 	! 	why 	all 	this 	pomp 	and 	vain 	parade 	?
False, 	false 	those 	plumes 	wherewith 	thou 	art 	array 	d 	!
f 	Tis 	not 	the 	extrinsic 	splendour 	of 	thy 	state,
Thy 	superb 	charger 	s 	proud 	majestic 	gait,
Should 	cause 	thy 	breast 	with 	swelling 	pride 	to 	heave 	;
(a) 	Nor 	deem 	true 	worth 	can 	in 	such 	bubbles 	live.
&quot;
Behold 	my 	shining 	steed,&quot; 	thou 	wilt 	exclaim,
And 	build 	thereon 	to 	dignity 	thy 	claim.
(a) 	Blessed 	is 	the 	man 	that 	findeth 	wisdom 	and 	is 	rich 	in
prudence 	: 	the 	purchasing 	thereof 	is 	better 	than 	the 	merchan
dise 	of 	silver, 	and 	her 	fruit 	than 	the 	chiefest 	and 	purest 	gold.
She 	is 	more 	precious 	than 	all 	riches 	; 	and 	all 	the 	things 	that
are 	desired, 	are 	not 	to 	be 	compared 	with 	her. 	Prov., 	3 	chap.,
13-15 	ver.
f 	See 	note 	D.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	23
On 	shadows 	then, 	thy 	spurious 	honours 	rest 	;
On 	baseless 	vapours 	stands 	thy 	claim 	confest.
Fling, 	fling 	aside 	such 	vain 	delusive 	toys 	;
Within 	one 	s 	self 	alone 	true 	honour 	lies.
On 	merit 	must 	all 	dignity 	be 	plac 	d 	;
On 	genuine 	worth 	is 	Honour 	s 	structure 	bas 	d.

24 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPIGTETUB.
SECTION 	5,
CONTAINING 	THE 	TWELFTH 	AND 	THIRTEENTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
We 	should 	be 	always 	ready 	to 	respond 	to 	the 	calls 	of 	duty,
whatever 	these 	might 	be. 	We 	should, 	therefore, 	never 	wan
der 	beyond 	the 	province 	of 	our 	duties, 	but 	be 	always 	ready 	to
respond 	to 	them 	with 	promptitude 	and 	alacrity.
It 	is 	proper 	to restrain 	our 	desires, 	since 	it 	is 	a 	folly 	to 	at
tempt 	the 	attainment 	of 	every 	wish 	: 	yet, 	the 	mind 	may 	walk
abroad 	in 	boundless 	space 	; 	for 	the 	impediments 	of 	the 	body
can 	never 	affect 	her 	chainless 	freedom.
XII.
Securely 	moor 	d 	thy 	bark 	at 	anchor 	rides,
And 	rests 	from 	labours 	of 	the 	briny 	tides.
And 	eager 	thou, 	fatigued 	from 	lengthen 	d 	toil,
Bound 	st 	on 	the 	shore 	to 	ease 	thy 	limbs 	awhile 	;
To 	taste 	the 	waters 	sparkling 	o 	er 	the 	land,
And 	gather 	shell-fish 	from 	the 	half-dried 	strand.
Attentive 	still, 	and 	prest 	with 	anxious 	care,
Where 	rides 	the 	restless 	bark 	is 	turned 	thine 	ear
To 	catch 	the 	captain 	s 	voice. 	Hark, 	hark, 	he 	calls 	:
Like 	thunder 	on 	thine ear the 	accent 	falls 	:
Tis 	meet 	thou 	fly 	; 	pain 	follows 	from 	delay 	:
Fling 	down 	thy 	sea- weed, 	cast 	the 	shells 	away.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	25
f 	And 	thus 	thro 	life 	the 	doctrine 	holds 	the 	same 	;
Thou 	need 	st 	but 	change 	the 	business 	and 	the 	name 	;
For 	shells 	and 	weeds 	write 	children, 	or 	write 	wife 	;
And 	so 	it 	is 	thro 	all 	the 	scenes 	of 	life.
The 	acts 	of 	duty 	ne 	er 	should 	be 	delay 	d,
And 	her 	wise 	call 	should 	promptly 	be 	obeyed.
But 	when 	old 	age 	arrests 	thy 	nimble 	gait,
Then 	form 	thy 	measures 	to 	thy 	changing 	state 	;
Nor 	at 	long 	distance 	let 	thy 	footstep 	stray,
Lest 	thy 	slow 	pace 	be 	follow 	d 	by 	delay.
A 	certain 	duty 	to 	thy 	province 	falls 	;
Be 	therefore 	present 	when 	that 	duty 	calls.
XIII.
When 	fond 	desires 	arise 	within 	thy 	breast,
And 	all 	thy 	thoughts 	on 	some 	bright 	vision 	rest,
Be 	not 	o 	er 	anxious 	every 	wish 	to 	gain,
To 	will 	is 	right 	; 	to 	calculate 	is 	vain.
(a) 	Let 	sweet 	contentment 	in 	thy 	bosom 	dwell,
How 	e 	er 	the 	lot 	may 	fall, 	and 	thou 	dost 	well.
t 	Note 	E.
(#) 	Better 	is 	a 	little 	with 	justice, 	than 	great 	revenues 	with
iniquity. 	Prov., 	16 	chap., 	8 	ver.
Trust 	in 	the 	Lord, 	and 	do 	good, 	and 	dwell 	in 	the 	land, 	and
thou 	shalt 	be 	fed 	with 	its 	riches. 	Delight 	in 	the 	Lord, 	and
he 	will 	give 	thee the 	requests 	of 	thy 	heart. 	Psalm 	36, 	3-4. 	ver.

26 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
The 	mind 	is 	free, 	and 	nought 	can 	e 	er 	impede
The 	chainless 	freedom 	by 	itself 	decreed.
Disease 	obstructs 	the 	body, 	not 	the 	will,
For 	free 	may 	float 	all 	its 	volitions 	still.
So 	tis 	with lameness 	; 	nay, 	what 	e er 	may 	fall
To 	man 	s 	estate, 	can 	ne 	er 	the 	mind 	enthral.
And 	tho 	in 	passing 	things 	obstruction 	lies,
The 	will 	unchecked 	on 	Freedom 	s 	pinion 	flies.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	27
SECTION 	6,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FOURTEENTH 	AND 	FIFTEENTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
When 	difficulties 	stand 	in 	our 	path, 	and 	human 	passions
beset 	our 	way, 	we 	should 	lose 	no 	time 	in 	calling 	into 	action
the 	virtues 	which 	are 	necessary 	to 	support 	us 	in 	the 	one 	case,
and 	to 	defend 	and 	protect 	us 	in 	the 	other.
Tis 	natural 	to feel 	the 	sensations 	of 	sorrow 	when 	we 	en
counter 	disappointment, 	or 	lose 	that 	which 	we 	had 	held 	dear 	;
but 	it 	argues 	a 	weak 	and 	foolish 	mind 	to 	indulge 	immoder
ately 	in 	such 	grief 	or 	sorrow 	; 	knowing, 	as 	we 	should, that 	it
is 	the 	nature 	of 	all 	earthly 	things 	to 	pass 	away 	; 	and 	that 	we
possess 	only 	the 	privilege 	of 	using 	them 	for 	awhile.
XIV.
In 	Life 	s 	rude 	path 	whatever 	may 	oppose
Thy 	peaceful 	progress, 	let 	the 	mind 	disclose
The 	means 	best 	suited 	to 	the 	pressing 	hour 	;
Call 	forth 	its 	strength, 	and 	wield 	its 	innate 	power,
f 	If 	woman, 	in 	Love 	s 	soft 	allurements 	drest,
() 	Excite 	an 	amorous 	conflict 	in 	thy 	breast 	;
{a) 	My 	son, 	attend 	to 	my 	wisdom, 	and 	incline 	thy 	ear 	to 	my
prudence. 	That 	thou 	mayst 	keep 	thoughts, 	and 	thy 	lips 	may
preserve 	instruction. 	Mind 	not 	the 	deceit 	of 	a 	woman 	; 	&c,
Prov., 	5 	chap., 	1-2 	ver., 	&c. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Prov., 	31 	chap., 	3 	ver,
f 	See 	note 	F.

28 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Tis 	Continence 	o 	erpowers 	her 	syren 	song.
And 	the 	black 	gall 	that 	trickles 	from 	her 	tongue.
Should 	Labour 	press 	thee 	thro 	the 	circling 	day,
Be 	Fortitude 	companion 	of 	thy 	way.
Doth 	wry-faced 	Censure 	thy 	retreat 	invade,
(a) 	Oh, 	then, 	call 	meek-eyed 	Patience 	to 	thy 	aid.
Be 	such 	thy 	rule 	thro 	every 	changing 	scene 	;
Thus 	flows 	life 	s 	current 	tranquil 	and 	serene.
No 	airy 	phantom 	thro 	thy 	brain 	shall 	roll 	;
But 	calm 	and 	peace 	shall 	settle 	on 	thy 	soul.
XV.
My 	goods 	are 	lost 	: 	What 	sad 	reverse 	! 	alack 	!
&quot;
What,&quot; 	thou 	exclaim 	st,
&quot;
you 	have 	but 	giv 	n 	them 	back.
My 	land 	is 	gone, 	my 	darling 	child 	s 	no 	more 	;
&quot;Pooh,&quot; 	thou 	still 	criest, 	&quot;you 	merely 	did 	restore
Them 	back 	:&quot; 	ha 	! 	yes, 	but 	stern 	is 	that 	decree
Which 	takes 	the 	land, 	and 	tears 	that 	child 	from 	me.
(&) 	Tis 	folly 	all 	; 	what 	matters 	how 	they 	ve 	flown,
Since 	tis 	the 	Giver 	who 	has 	taken 	his 	own.
(#) 	He 	that 	is 	patient, 	is 	governed 	with 	much 	wisdom 	; 	but
lie 	that 	is 	impatient 	exalteth 	his 	folly. 	Prov., 	14 	chap., 	29 	ver.
AGAIN, 	The 	learning- 	of 	a 	man 	is 	known 	by 	patience 	; 	and 	his
glory 	is 	to 	pass 	over 	wrongs, 	Prov., 	19 	chap., 	11 	ver.
(Z&amp;gt;) 	And 	when 	I 	turned 	myself 	to 	all 	the 	works 	which 	my
hands 	had 	wrought, 	and 	to 	the 	labours 	wherein 	I 	had 	laboured
in 	vain, 	I 	saw 	in 	all 	things 	vanity, 	and 	vexation 	of 	mind, 	and
that 	nothing 	was 	lasting 	under 	the 	sun. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	2 	chap.,
11 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Prov., 3 	chap., 	11-14 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	29
Enjoy 	all 	blessings 	while 	the 	power 	is 	thine,
And 	when 	once 	gone, 	nor 	grumble 	nor 	repine.
So 	travellers 	use, 	on 	cold 	autumnal 	days,
The 	tavern 	s 	smiling 	board, 	and 	fireside 	blaze,
But 	use 	them, 	ne 	er 	once 	deeming 	them 	their 	own,
Pleased 	with 	the 	passing 	privilege 	alone.

30 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EP1CTETUS.
SECTION 	7,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SIXTEENTH 	AND 	SEVENTEENTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
We 	should 	never 	create anxieties 	in 	our 	own 	breasts 	by
bringing 	before 	our 	minds 	probable 	calamities: 	as 	the 	actual
presence 	of 	any 	supposed 	evil 	were 	better 	than 	the 	continual
and 	uninterrupted 	apprehension 	of 	it. 	It 	is 	well 	to 	accustom
ourselves 	to 	the 	patient 	endurance 	of 	petty 	annoyances, 	for 	we
thereby 	fit 	and 	prepare 	ourselves 	for 	the 	easy 	and 	tranquil
reception 	of 	what 	might 	otherwise 	appear 	to 	be 	great 	and
serious 	evils.
XVI.
Is 	thine 	the 	wish 	to 	make 	thy 	state 	improve 	?
Far 	from 	thy 	mind 	all 	thoughts 	like 	these 	remove
&quot;
I 	must 	delve 	on 	; 	if 	not, 	I 	must 	be 	poor,
And 	want 	shall 	enter 	trembling 	at 	my 	door 	:
My 	children, 	too, 	from 	duty 	s 	path 	shall 	fly,
Unless 	Correction 	s 	rod 	I 	timely 	ply.&quot;
Ah, 	better far 	to 	starve 	with 	soul 	resigned
Than 	live 	in 	plenty 	with 	a 	troubled 	mind 	;
Far 	better, 	too, 	a 	pert 	umnannered 	child
Than 	be 	of 	Life 	s 	tranquillity 	beguiled.
XVII.
Begin 	at 	once 	; 	come 	now 	; 	thy 	patience 	try 	;
And 	let 	small 	things 	thy 	first 	attempts 	employ.
The 	oil 	is 	spill 	d 	| 	some 	villain 	stole 	the 	wine 	;
The 	task 	to 	bear 	it 	calmly 	now 	is 	thine,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	31
(a) 	Remember 	well 	such 	is 	the 	price 	that 	s 	laid
On 	heavenly 	patience 	; 	and 	it 	must 	be 	paid.
Thou 	call 	st 	thy 	son 	; 	thy 	voice 	he 	cannot 	hear 	;
But 	headlong 	still 	pursues 	his 	wild 	career 	:
Or 	heard, 	he 	heeds 	not, 	being 	determined 	still
To 	have 	his 	way, 	and 	disappoint 	thy 	will 	:
Yet 	this 	should 	not 	o 	erturn 	thy 	mental 	peace,
False, 	false 	the 	bliss 	bas 	d 	on 	thy 	son 	s 	caprice 	!
(a) 	Better 	is 	the 	patient 	man 	than 	the 	presumptuous. 	Be 	not
quickly 	angry 	; 	for 	anger 	resteth 	in 	the 	bosom 	of 	a 	fool.
Ecclesiasticus, 	7 	chap., 	9-10 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Prov., 	13 	chap.,
11-12 	ver. 	Lege 	etiam, 	Hebrews, 	12 	chap., 	et 	Apocalypse,
3 	chap., 	19 	ver.

32 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
CONTAINING 	THE 	EIGHTEENTH, 	NINETEENTH 	AND 	TWENTIETH
CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
We 	should 	never 	presume 	upon 	a 	show 	of 	wisdom 	for 	the
purpose 	of 	winning 	the 	plaudits 	of 	men 	: 	we 	should 	rather
conceal 	our 	possession 	of 	it. 	Seldom 	do 	the 	truly 	wise 	make
any 	attempt, 	or 	feel 	any 	desire 	to 	obtain 	public 	applause 	;
and 	rarely 	does 	it 	happen 	that 	nature 	s 	gifts 	and 	the 	world 	s
favours 	meet 	together.
Our 	wishes 	ought 	to 	be 	circumscribed 	within 	rational
bounds 	; 	and 	we 	should 	be 	particularly 	careful 	that 	none 	of
our 	desires 	be 	incompatible 	with 	the 	laws 	of 	nature.
A 	desire 	which 	cannot 	be 	gratified 	by 	possession 	must 	be
attended 	with 	pain 	; 	and 	to 	give 	an. unlimited 	scope 	to 	our
wishes 	is 	to 	impose 	upon 	ourselves 	a 	voluntary 	slavery.
XVIII.
(a) 	Thou 	would 	st 	improve 	? 	the 	plebeian 	s 	garb assume,
And 	on 	a 	show 	of 	wisdom 	ne 	er 	presume 	:
Yet, 	should 	st 	thou 	learned 	seem, 	and 	win 	the 	gaze
Of 	plauding 	men, 	distrust 	the 	dangerous 	praise.
Know, 	Nature 	s 	gifts 	and 	worldly 	favours 	stand
Far, 	far 	apart, 	nor 	e 	er 	go 	hand 	in 	hand 	;
(a) 	A 	cautious 	man 	concealeth 	knowledge 	; 	and 	the 	heart
of 	fools 	publisheth 	folly. 	Prov., 	12 	chap., 	23 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam,
Prov., 	3 	chap,, 	7 	Ver,, 	et 	Romans, 	12 	chap., 	16 	ver,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	33
f 	And 	thro 	life 	s 	various 	scenes 	we 	rarely see
Two 	fix 	d 	affections 	in 	one 	breast 	agree 	;
When 	one 	takes 	root, 	the 	other 	must 	withdraw 	;
This 	seems 	a 	fixed 	and 	never-varying 	law.
XIX.
(a) 	Ah, 	sad 	! 	doth 	sorrow 	at 	thy 	bosom 	lie,
Because 	thy 	children, 	wife, 	and 	friends 	must 	die 	?
Thou 	fool 	! 	to 	wish 	that 	they 	should 	ever 	live 	:
That 	is 	a 	power 	the 	gods 	alone 	can 	give.
And 	thou 	dost 	wish 	thy 	child 	from 	vice 	be 	free 	;
Vain, 	idle 	thought 	! 	since 	that 	can 	never 	be 	:
(6) 	Such 	is 	thy 	wish, 	that vice 	be 	vice 	no 	more 	;
That 	Nature 	s 	laws 	lie 	withered 	at 	the 	core.
Existing 	order 	thus 	would 	st 	thou 	suspend 	;
Convulse 	fair 	nature 	to 	her 	utmost 	end.
Desire 	nought, 	then, 	by 	Nature 	not 	decreed 	;
And 	be thy 	wishes 	such 	as 	may 	succeed.
f 	See 	note 	Gr.
O) 	Whatsoever 	shall 	befall 	the 	just 	man, 	it 	shall 	not 	make
him 	sad 	: 	but 	the 	wicked 	shall 	be 	filled 	with 	mischief, 	Prov.
12 	chap., 	21 	ver. 	Heaven 	and 	earth 	shall 	pass, 	but 	my 	words
shall 	not 	pass 	away. 	Matthew, 	24 	chap., 	35 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam,
Mark, 	13 	chap., 	31 	ver., 	et 	Ecclesiastes 	3 	chap.
(Z) 	If 	we 	say 	that 	we 	have 	no 	sin, 	we 	deceive 	ourselves, 	and
the 	truth 	is 	not 	in 	us. 	If 	we 	confess 	our 	sins 	he 	is 	faithful
and 	just 	to 	forgive 	us 	our 	sins, 	and 	to 	cleanse 	us 	from 	all
iniquity. 	If 	we 	say 	that 	we 	have 	not 	sinned, 	we 	make 	him 	a
liar, 	and 	his 	word 	is 	not 	in 	us. 	I 	John, 	1 	chap,, 	8-10 	ver,
C

34 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
XX.
(a) 	Whose 	will 	controls 	thee 	he 	who 	may 	oppose
Thy 	fond 	desires, 	and 	send 	thee 	many 	woes 	;
Whose 	choice 	alone 	may 	pain 	or 	joy 	afford 	;
Ah, 	him 	confess 	thy 	Master 	and 	thy 	Lord.
(&) 	Then, 	seek 	not 	that 	which 	thou 	can 	st 	not 	procure 	;
Nor 	be 	displeased 	with 	what 	thou 	must 	endure 	:
So 	shalt 	thou 	be 	unfettered, 	noble, 	brave 	;
But, 	otherwise, 	a 	self-created 	slave.
O) 	Good 	things 	and 	evil, 	life 	and 	death, 	poverty 	and 	riches,
are 	from 	God. 	Wisdom 	and 	discipline, 	and 	the 	knowledge 	of
the 	law, 	are 	with 	God. 	Love 	and 	the 	ways 	of 	good 	things 	are
with 	him. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	11 	chap., 	14, 	15 	ver. 	AGAIN. 	And 	he
said 	to 	her 	: 	Thou 	hast 	spoken 	like 	one 	of 	the 	foolish 	women 	;
if 	we 	have 	received 	good 	things 	at 	the 	hand 	of 	God, 	why 	should
we 	not 	receive 	evil 	? 	In 	all 	these 	things 	Job 	did 	not 	sin 	with
his 	lips. 	Job, 	2 	chap., 	10 	ver.
(&) 	Better 	it 	is 	to 	see 	what 	thou 	mayst 	desire, 	than 	to 	desire
that 	which 	thou 	canst 	not 	know. 	But 	this 	also 	is 	vanity 	and
presumption 	of 	spirit. 	Ecclesiastes, 	6 	chap., 	9 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EFICTETUS. 	35
SECTION 	9,
CONTAINING 	THE 	TWENTY-FIRST 	AND 	TWENTY-SECOND 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
Prudence 	and 	a 	graceful 	bearing 	should 	be 	the 	distinguish
ing 	features of 	all 	our 	acts. 	A 	calm 	and 	modest 	serenity 	in
our 	demeanour, 	under 	all 	the 	phases 	of 	circumstances, 	is 	the
characteristic 	mark 	of 	a 	high 	and 	noble 	mind 	: 	and 	the
farther 	on 	we 	go 	in 	the 	subjugation 	of 	our 	feelings 	of 	pride
and 	vanity, 	the 	nearer 	approach 	we 	make 	to 	the 	excellence
and 	perfection 	of 	the 	celestial 	inhabitants.
Many 	of 	the 	woes 	of 	this 	life 	are 	merely 	fictitious 	: 	and
we 	regard 	certain 	changes 	or 	events 	as 	evils, 	only 	because
public 	opinion 	says 	they 	are 	so. 	We 	ought, 	nevertheless, 	to
administer 	comfort 	to 	sufferers 	under 	such 	false 	imaginary
evils, 	as 	well 	as 	to 	those 	who 	may 	be 	afflicted 	with 	real 	woes 	;
without, 	however, 	permitting 	our 	feelings 	to 	be 	affected 	by
the 	fancied 	distress.
XXI.
(a) 	Thine 	acts 	thro 	life 	should 	be 	with 	prudence 	grac 	d.
Such 	as 	a 	guest 	at 	his 	host 	s 	table 	plac 	d 	:
(5) 	When 	aught 	is 	offered, 	take 	it 	with 	a 	grace 	:
And 	ne 	er 	display 	a 	pale 	distorted 	face 	;
(a) 	Get 	wisdom, 	because 	it 	is 	better 	than 	gold 	: 	and 	purchase
prudence, 	for 	it 	is 	more 	precious 	than 	silver. 	Prov., 	16 	chap.,
16-21 	ver.
( V) 	The 	wisdom 	of 	the 	humble 	shall 	exalt 	his 	head, 	and 	shall
make 	him 	sit 	in 	the 	midst 	of 	great 	men. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	11 	chap.,
1 	ver,

36 	THE 	ENCUIR1DION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Tho 	the 	wish 	d 	dish 	should 	pass 	unoffered 	by 	:
Twill 	shew 	thy 	sense, 	and 	graceful 	dignity.
Such 	be 	thy 	bearing 	thro 	life 	s 	chequered 	way 	;
From 	self-control 	and 	prudence 	never 	stray 	:
Whate 	er 	it 	be, 	wife, 	children, 	wealth, 	or 	pow 	r,
Which 	claims 	thy 	care, 	and 	rules 	the 	passing 	hour.
Thy 	noble 	course 	a 	virtuous 	soul 	betrays 	;
And 	God 	shall 	look 	with 	favour 	on 	thy 	ways.
Ah, 	when 	in 	order 	ranged 	before 	thine 	eyes
The 	tempting 	feast 	displays 	its 	luxuries 	;
Dost 	thou 	forbear 	to 	touch 	th 	inviting 	hoard 	?
Look 	st 	thou 	indifference 	on 	the shining 	board 	?
Then 	thou 	dost 	stand 	far 	raised 	above 	the 	sphere
Of 	guest 	: 	the 	gods 	companion and 	confrere.
-j- 	Diogenes, 	and 	Heraclitus 	shone
Thus 	sharers of 	the 	gods 	empyreal 	throne 	:
The 	godlike 	course 	these 	brilliant 	worthies 	steer 	d
Made 	them, 	as gods, 	be honoured 	and 	revered.
XXII.
(a) 	This 	man 	with 	ceaseless 	wail 	distracted 	raves,
For 	that 	his 	son 	hath 	cross 	d 	the 	briny 	waves 	;
f 	See 	note 	H.
(a) 	Give 	not 	up 	thy 	soul to 	sadness, 	and 	afflict 	not 	thyself 	in
thy 	own 	counsel. 	The 	joyfulness of 	the 	heart 	is 	the 	life 	of 	a
man, 	and 	a 	never-failing 	treasure 	of 	holiness 	: 	and 	the 	joy
of 	a 	man 	is 	length 	of 	life. 	Have 	pity 	on 	thy 	own 	soul, 	pleasing
God 	; 	and 	contain 	thyself 	: 	gather 	up 	thy 	heart 	in 	his 	holiness 	:
and 	drive 	away 	sadness 	far 	from 	thee. 	Eeclesiasticus, 	30 	chap.,
22-24 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Prov., 	15 	ch., 	13 	ver,, 	et 	17 	chap., 	22 	ver.,
etiam, 	2 Corinthians, 	7 chap., 	10 	ver,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	37
Or 	weeps 	his 	ruin 	d 	patrimonial 	seat.
Take 	heed 	; 	let 	not 	th 	imposing 	phantom 	cheat
Thy 	soften 	d 	heart 	: 	a 	vast 	distinction, 	know,
Lies 	twixt 	mere 	semblance, 	and 	real 	pressing 	woe.
But 	reason 	thus 	; 	thus 	let 	thy 	thoughts 	disclose
The 	cause 	whence 	spring 	these 	vast 	pretended 	woes.
&quot;
Not 	the 	event 	that 	saddens 	all 	his 	breast
(How 	could 	it 	ruffle 	his 	accustom 	d 	rest 	?)
Opinions 	only 	take 	a 	wild 	control,
Swell 	at 	his 	breast, 	and 	rankle 	in 	his 	soul.
Tis 	these 	opinions 	give 	the 	heighten 	d 	sting 	;
On 	these 	is 	bas 	d 	the 	wretch 	s 	suffering 	?&quot;
Still, 	still 	let 	sympathy 	employ 	thy 	care 	:
But 	from 	indulgence 	in 	his 	grief 	forbear
(a) 	In 	words 	alone 	that 	sympathy 	impart 	;
Nor 	let 	his 	senseless 	sorrow 	touch 	thy 	heart.
(a) 	Grief 	in 	the 	heart 	of 	a man 	shall 	bring 	him 	low, 	but 	with
a 	good 	word 	he 	shall 	be 	made 	glad. 	He 	that 	neglecteth 	a 	loss
for 	the 	sake 	of 	a 	friend, 	is 	just 	: 	but 	the 	way 	of 	the 	wicked
shall 	deceive 	them. 	Prov., 12 	chap., 	25, 	26 	ver.

38 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	10,
CONTAINING 	THE 	TWENTY-THIRD, 	TWENTY-FOURTH 	AND 	TWENTY-
FIFTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
Every 	man 	has 	his 	sphere 	of 	action 	assigned 	to 	him 	on 	the
Btage 	of 	life 	: 	it 	is, 	therefore, 	vain 	to 	repine 	at 	our 	condition 	;
but 	it 	becomes 	our 	duty, 	as 	well 	as 	our 	interest, 	to 	be 	satisfied
with 	what 	state 	soever 	we 	may 	be 	placed 	in.
The 	sunshine 	of 	hope 	frequently 	illumines 	the 	desolation
around 	us 	; 	and 	peace 	and 	contentment 	often 	flow 	from 	the
ruin 	of 	our 	fortunes.
In 	every 	undertaking 	we 	should 	calculate 	the 	chances
which 	may 	be 	opposed 	to 	us, 	and 	always 	proceed 	with 	a 	clear
and 	comprehensive 	view 	of 	the 	matter 	in 	hand.
XXIII.
Behold 	! 	within 	this 	world 	what 	various 	strife 	!
We 	all 	are actors 	on 	the 	stage 	of 	life 	: 	,
Each 	hath 	his 	part 	assigned 	; 	and 	tis 	in 	vain
He 	feels 	displeased 	; 	that 	part 	he 	must 	sustain.
The 	poor, 	the 	rich, 	the 	lame, 	the 	high 	and 	low,
Each 	must 	fulfil 	his 	character 	below.
Yet, 	tis 	not 	ours 	to 	choose 	the 	part 	we 	play 	:
(a) 	The 	gods 	that 	give 	it 	; 	them 	we 	must 	obey.
(a) 	Good 	things 	and 	evil, 	life 	and 	death, 	poverty 	and 	riches,
are 	from 	God. 	Wisdom 	and 	discipline, 	and 	the 	knowledge
of 	the 	law 	are 	with 	God. 	Love 	and 	the 	ways 	of 	good 	things
are 	with 	him. 	Error 	and 	darkness 	are 	created 	with 	sinners 	:
and 	they 	that 	glory 	in 	evil 	things, 	grow 	old 	in 	evil. 	Eccle-
siasticus, 	11 	chap., 	14-16 	ver.

ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	39
XXIV.
The 	raven 	s 	croak 	! 	but, 	why 	dost 	thoii 	grow 	pale,
Thy 	spirits 	sink, 	and 	all 	thy 	courage 	fail 	?
The 	shadowy 	omen 	bodes 	no 	ill 	to 	thee 	:
Rest 	thou 	unmoved, 	be 	fearless 	still 	and 	free.
(a) 	Thy 	land, 	thy 	goods, 	thy 	reputation, 	say
Thy 	wife, 	thy 	children, 	may 	be 	swept 	away 	;
Nay 	more, 	thy 	body 	may 	sustain 	great 	ill 	;
Yet 	thou 	art 	safe 	; 	thy 	peace 	is 	untouched 	still.
Whate 	er 	befall 	thee, 	ne 	er 	should 	st 	thou 	repine 	;
Still 	peace 	and 	sweet 	contentment 	may 	be 	thine.
Tho 	o 	er 	thy 	prospects 	desolation 	sweep 	;
(&) 	Still 	from 	the 	ruin 	thou 	may 	st 	profit 	reap.
XXV.
Would 	st 	thou 	successful 	in 	each 	contest 	prove,
To 	take 	due 	caution 	it 	doth 	thee 	behove,
Attempt 	no 	field 	where 	victory 	doth 	not 	shine
Clear 	to 	thy 	view 	; 	so, 	triumph 	shall 	be 	thine.
Deep 	let 	the 	subject 	thy 	whole 	mind 	imbue 	;
And 	truth 	s 	bright 	goal 	be 	ever 	in 	thy 	view.
(a) 	For 	whom 	the 	Lord 	loveth 	he 	chastiseth 	; 	and 	as 	a
father 	in 	the 	son 	he 	pleaseth 	himself. 	Prov., 	3 	chap., 	12 	ver.
Lege 	etiam, 	Ecclesiastes, 	8 	chap., 	et 	Heb., 	12 	chap., 	5 	ver., 	et
Apocalyp., 	3 	chap., 	19 	ver.
(ft) 	The 	just 	is 	delivered 	out 	of 	distress 	; 	and 	the 	wicked
shall 	be 	given 	up 	for 	him. 	The 	dissembler 	with 	his 	mouth,
deceiveth 	his 	friend: 	but 	the 	just 	shall 	be 	delivered 	by 	know
ledge. 	Prov., 	11 	chap., 	8,9 	ver,

40 	TEE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	11,
CONTAINING 	THE 	TWENTY-SIXTH, 	TWENTY-SEVENTH 	AND 	TWENTY-
EIGHTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is 	the 	part 	of 	a 	wise 	man 	to 	put 	a 	high 	value 	upon 	that
alone 	which 	is 	placed 	within 	his 	possession 	; 	and 	not 	to 	sigh
after 	those 	things 	which 	lie 	beyond 	his 	reach.
Freedom 	is 	the 	noblest 	inheritance 	of 	man 	; 	and 	to 	be 	free
he 	must 	discard 	from 	his 	desires 	whatsoever 	lies 	without 	his
sphere.
The 	insults 	of 	the 	vicious 	and 	worthless 	leave 	no 	injury
behind 	; 	and 	patience 	supports 	us 	against 	calumny.
We 	should 	renew 	daily 	to 	our 	minds 	the 	vicissitudes 	of
human 	life, 	that 	we 	may 	be 	the 	better 	fitted 	and 	prepared
for 	their 	reception 	whenever 	it 	may 	please 	Providence 	to 	visit
us 	with 	any 	of 	them.
XXVI.
(a) 	Lo 	! 	here 	thy 	fellowmen 	to 	honours 	rise 	;
And 	power 	and 	wealth 	exalt 	them 	to 	the 	skies 	:
Give 	not 	to 	these 	th 	exulting 	words 	of 	joy 	;
Nor 	blessings 	call 	a 	shadow 	and 	a 	toy.
Know 	thou 	the 	freeman 	s 	right 	consists 	alone
In 	what 	with 	safety 	he 	may 	call 	his 	own 	:
Hence 	jealous 	thoughts 	of 	power 	can 	ne 	er 	find rest
Within 	the 	precincts 	of 	the 	wise 	man 	s 	breast.
(a) 	Leg-e 	Ecclesiastes, 	2 	chap., 	et 	Ecclesiasticus, 	2 	chap.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	41
Tis 	not 	thy 	aim 	with 	Consul 	s 	power 	to 	sway,
Or 	lead 	vast 	armies 	to 	the 	bloody 	fray 	;
Nor 	dost 	thou 	seek 	the 	Magisterial 	state 	:
Tis 	Freedom 	s 	breath 	that 	makes 	thy 	pulse 	elate.
Then, 	to 	be 	free, 	this, 	this 	the 	course 	to 	steer,
Scout 	from 	thy 	mind 	what 	lies 	beyond 	thy 	sphere.
XXVII.
Mark 	well 	this 	truth, 	and 	bear 	it 	in 	thy 	mind,
An 	insult 	ne 	er 	leaves 	injury 	behind 	:
Tis 	fitful 	fancy 	bids 	the 	vision 	rise 	;
And 	paints 	the 	seeming 	evil 	to 	thine 	eyes.
What 	! 	tho 	some 	worthless 	wretch 	of 	vicious 	fame
Should 	cast 	aspersions 	on 	thy 	spotless 	name 	;
Pour 	out 	his 	bile 	in 	language 	of 	disgrace 	;
Or 	even 	fling 	the 	puddle 	in 	thy 	face 	:
He 	hurts 	thee 	not. 	By 	patience 	and 	delay
The 	visionary 	wrong 	shall 	pass 	away.
XXVIII.
Take 	heed 	each 	day 	before 	thine 	eyes 	to 	place
The 	various 	ills 	that 	wait 	the 	human 	race,
Death, 	Slavery, 	Exile 	; 	chief 	of 	all, 	renew
Death 	s 	awful 	image 	to 	thy 	mental 	view.
Thus, 	trifles 	never 	shall 	thy 	peace 	confound 	;
And 	sweet 	repose 	shall 	in 	thy 	breast 	abound 	:
Nor 	shall 	thy 	mind 	with 	anxious 	cares 	be 	bent
(a) 	On 	wordly 	goods, 	with 	what 	is 	thine 	content.
(a) 	Lege 	Prov., 	22 	chap., 	et 	Ecclesiastes, 	1 	chap.

42 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	12,
CONTAINING 	THE 	TWENTY-NINTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is 	the 	province 	of 	Folly 	to 	laugh 	at 	Wisdom 	; 	but 	the 	wise
man 	should 	never 	suffer 	himself 	to 	be 	turned 	aside 	from 	his
pursuits 	by 	the 	senseless 	jeers 	and 	unmeaning 	mockery 	of
ignorant, 	vulgar, 	and 	vicious 	minds.
XXIX.
(a) 	Doth 	mild 	philosophy 	thy 	fancy 	seize 	?
Or, 	say, 	do 	wisdom 	s 	heavenly 	charms 	please 	?
Prepare 	henceforth 	to 	meet 	the 	jests 	of 	men,
The 	blockhead 	s 	sneer, 	and 	folly 	s 	senseless 	grin.
&quot;
Whence 	this 	stern 	mien, 	this 	fix 	d 	and 	haughty 	brow,&quot;
Exclaim 	the 	rabble 	:
&quot;
What 	! 	ha, 	ha, 	how now 	?&quot;
Still 	from 	thy 	purpose 	turn 	not 	thou 	: 	but 	hear 	;
Dismiss 	from 	thee 	that 	supercilious 	air 	:
Be 	thy 	whole 	carriage 	such 	that 	men 	may 	see
This 	the 	true 	sphere 	the 	gods 	assigned 	to 	thee.
This 	do 	; 	and 	those 	who 	laughed 	and 	jeered 	before,
Shall 	now 	repent 	; 	and 	laugh 	and 	sneer 	no 	more 	;
All 	shall 	on 	thee 	high 	reverence 	bestow 	;
And 	deep 	regard 	make 	every 	bosom 	glow.
But 	should 	st 	thou 	halt, 	and 	trembling 	turn 	aside 	;
Oh, 	then, 	of 	jeers 	and 	scoffs 	the 	double 	tide 	!
Derision 	s 	horrid 	laugh 	shall 	then 	resound 	;
And 	shame 	and 	scorn, 	and 	sorrow 	hem 	thee 	round.
(a.) 	Speak 	not 	in 	the 	ears 	of 	fools 	; 	because 	they 	will 	des
pise 	the 	instruction 	of 	thy 	speech. 	Prov., 	23 	chap., 	9 	ver. 	Lege
etiam, 	Prov., 	15 	chap.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	43
SECTION 	13,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTIETH 	AND 	THIRTY-FIRST 	CHAPTERS,
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
No 	one 	should 	attempt 	to 	please the 	world 	: 	for 	he 	who 	does
so 	only 	displays 	his 	folly, 	and 	loses 	his 	labour. 	To 	walk 	in
the 	path 	which 	reason 	indicates, 	and 	to 	bend 	in 	all 	things 	to
the 	voice 	of 	wisdom, 	is 	the 	part of 	every 	man 	who 	desires 	to
secure 	his 	own 	happiness, 	and 	to 	follow 	out 	the 	end 	of 	his
being. 	To 	be 	conscious 	of 	the 	importance 	and 	excellence 	of
wisdom 	is 	to 	be wise 	in 	reality.
We 	should 	never 	feel 	uneasiness 	from 	the 	absence 	of 	riches,
honours, 	or 	fame 	; 	their 	possession 	not 	being 	within 	our
province. 	Merit 	is 	no 	precedent 	consideration 	to 	the 	posses
sion 	of 	these. 	Every 	condition, 	no 	matter 	how 	humble, 	may
be 	attended 	with 	honour, 	which, 	to 	be 	real, 	must 	be 	based
upon 	wise 	conduct.
XXX.
Say, 	do 	thy 	thoughts 	with 	eager 	flight 	pursue
Some 	darling 	object 	placed 	in 	distant 	view 	?
Or 	strays 	without 	its 	province, 	unconfined
By 	Reason 	s 	laws, 	thy 	unrestricted 	mind 	?
Say, 	dost 	thou 	aim 	to 	please 	mankind 	? 	beware 	;
(a) 	Thy 	footing 	s 	lost 	; 	that 	lies 	beyond 	thy 	sphere.
O) 	If 	wisdom 	shall 	enter 	into 	thy 	heart, 	and 	knowledge
please 	thy 	soul 	: 	counsel 	shall 	keep 	thee, 	and 	prudence 	shall
preserve 	thee. 	That 	thou 	mayest 	be 	delivered 	from 	the 	evil
way, 	and 	from 	the 	man 	that 	speaketh 	perverse 	things 	: 	who
leave 	the 	rightway 	and 	walk 	by 	dark 	ways, 	c. 	Prov., 	2 chap.,
10, 	11, 	12, 	13, 	&c., 	ver.

44 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Begin 	; 	be 	wise 	in 	time 	; 	give 	trifles 	o 	er 	;
Be 	Wisdom 	all 	thy 	aim, 	and 	seek 	no 	more.
But 	would 	st 	thou 	seem 	as 	being 	wise 	? 	then 	know,
Who 	s 	conscious 	of 	it 	must 	be 	really 	so.
XXXI.
(a) 	Calm 	be 	thy 	soul 	: 	all 	thoughts 	like 	these 	disown 	:
&quot;
What 	! 	must 	I 	live 	unhonoured 	and 	unknown 	?&quot;
To 	grasp 	at 	fame 	the 	fool 	alone 	essays 	:
Nor 	is 	it 	thine 	the 	glittering 	pile 	to 	raise 	:
No 	blame 	to 	thee 	(so 	wisdom 	bids 	us 	believe)
Should 	st 	thou 	obscure 	and 	undistinguished 	live 	;
Since 	Honour 	s 	post 	tis 	others 	must 	bestow 	;
Thro 	other 	hands 	wealth 	s 	shining 	gifts 	must 	flow.
Tho 	not 	devoid 	of 	honour 	is 	that 	state
Where 	honest 	feeling 	makes 	each 	action 	great.
And 	thou, 	first 	in 	thy 	sphere, 	we 	see 	thee 	win
A 	mark 	d 	distinction 	from 	thy 	fellow 	men.
&quot;
But, 	ah 	;&quot;
thou 	criest, 	&quot;
my 	friends 	are 	low 	and 	poor.&quot;
Say, 	can 	st 	thou 	riches 	for 	thy 	friends 	procure 	?
Place 	them 	in 	rank 	of 	Citizens 	of 	Rome 	?
These 	gifts 	from 	others/ 	not 	from 	thee 	must 	come.
&quot;
Yes, 	true,&quot; 	thy 	friends 	exclaim, 	&quot;
but, 	do 	thou 	rise
To 	riches, 	first 	; 	then, 	we 	shall 	share 	the 	prize.&quot;
Well 	; 	answer 	thus, 	&quot;To 	me 	the 	path 	descry
That 	leads 	to 	riches, 	and 	where 	honours 	lie 	;
() 	Vide 	Prov. 	et 	Wis, 	et 	Ecclesiastes 	passim.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	45
I 	ll 	search 	them 	out, 	unless too 	dear 	the 	price,
Save 	Virtue 	be, 	and 	Truth, 	the 	sacrifice 	:
Point 	out 	the 	tangled 	path 	of 	Wealth 	and 	Gain
Where 	Honour, 	Virtue, 	Honesty 	sustain
Their 	noble 	course 	; 	and 	that 	shall 	I 	pursue 	:
Hard 	is 	the 	task 	; 	and 	vain 	thy 	labour, 	too.
Yet, 	how 	unwise, 	(being 	rich) to 	give 	to 	you
My 	goods, 	from 	which 	no 	profit 	would 	accrue 	;
To 	you 	no 	real 	advantage 	could 	arise,
While 	I 	should 	shew 	me 	senseless 	and 	unwise.
Say, 	which 	dost 	thou 	prefer 	? 	a 	faithful 	friend
Who 	ne 	er 	to 	acts 	of 	meanness 	can 	descend,
Or 	the 	dull 	heap 	of 	trashy 	glittering 	ore 	?&quot;
The 	friend 	sincere 	:
&quot;
Then 	urge 	me 	on 	no 	more
To 	trace 	that 	path 	where 	Honour 	must 	decay,
(a) 	Where 	Truth 	s 	appalled, 	and 	Virtue 	scar 	d 	away.&quot;
u 	But, 	ah, 	thy 	Country 	s 	good 	!
&quot;
another 	cries,
&quot;
Thou 	should 	st 	bid 	Baths 	and 	Porticoes 	arise
Throughout 	the 	land.&quot; 	&quot;
What,&quot; 	thus 	be 	thy 	reply,
&quot;
Would 	st 	thou 	the 	smith 	at 	various 	arts 	should 	ply 	?
To 	shaping 	shoes 	of 	brass 	himself 	betake 	;
And 	lastmen 	swords 	of 	leathern 	texture 	make 	;
(a) 	Blessed 	is 	the 	man 	that 	findeth 	wisdom 	and 	is 	rich 	in 	pru
dence 	: 	the 	purchasing 	thereof 	is 	better 	than 	the 	merchandise
of 	silver, 	and 	her 	fruit 	than 	the 	cheapest 	and 	purest 	gold. 	She
is 	more 	precious 	than 	all 	riches 	: 	and 	all 	the things 	that 	are
desired, 	are 	not 	to 	be 	compared 	with 	her. 	Prov., 3 	chap., 13- 15 	ver.
And 	he 	said to 	them 	: 	Take 	heed 	and 	beware 	of 	all 	covetous-
ness 	: 	for 	a 	man 	s 	life 	doth 	not 	consist 	in 	the 	abundance 	of
things 	which, 	he 	possesseth, 	Luke, 	12 	chap,, 	15 	ver,

46 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Thus 	that 	all 	craftsmen 	change 	their 	crafts 	apace 	?
Enough 	that 	each 	supplies 	his 	proper 	place.
When 	I 	well-skilled 	and 	faithful 	men 	provide
To 	serve 	the 	state, 	do 	I 	owe 	aught 	beside 	?
Say 	do 	I 	not 	discharge 	my 	duty 	well 	?&quot;
&quot;
But 	in 	the 	state 	what 	office 	dost 	thou 	fill 	?&quot;
&quot;
What 	office 	I 	in 	the 	state 	that 	place 	is 	mine
Where 	faith, 	integrity, 	and 	honour 	shine 	;
But, 	let 	me 	cast 	these 	peerless 	gifts 	aside,
Let 	Truth, 	Faith, 	Justice, 	Honour 	be 	defied,
(a) 	What 	service 	then 	avails, 	these 	things 	instead 	?
When 	Honour, 	Shame, 	and 	Sterling 	Worth 	are 	fled.&quot;
(a) 	Vide 	Prov., 	3 	chap.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	47
SECTION 	14,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-SECOND 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
We 	should 	not 	repine 	at 	the 	attentions 	paid 	to 	others 	at
feasts 	and 	public 	places 	; 	because 	these 	attentions 	are 	often
obtained 	at 	the 	expense 	of 	true 	honour, 	dignity, 	and 	virtue.
He, 	therefore, 	who 	is 	desirous 	of 	maintaining 	his 	dignity 	and
self-respect, 	and 	who 	is 	unwilling 	to 	sacrifice 	these 	noble 	and
exalted 	possessions 	at 	the 	shrine of 	vain 	ephemeral 	distinction,
should 	not 	fancy 	himself 	the 	object of 	injury 	or 	wrong 	if, 	in
the 	public 	place, 	he 	do 	not 	meet 	with 	that 	bow 	of 	recognition
from 	the 	vain 	and 	great, 	and 	that 	marked 	attention, 	which
are 	purchased 	by 	servility 	and 	self -degradation. 	Flattery
and 	obsequiousness 	are 	often 	the 	inevitable 	price 	which
must 	be 	paid 	for 	these 	false 	distinctions 	: 	and, 	as 	no 	person
can 	expect 	to 	become 	possessed 	of 	any 	article 	of 	merchandise
without 	having 	first 	paid 	the 	price 	which 	had 	been 	set 	upon
it, 	so 	should 	no 	one 	hope 	to 	receive 	attention 	and 	distinction
in 	the 	crowd, 	at 	the 	public 	feast, 	or 	amid 	the 	conference,
without 	having 	first 	paid 	the 	price 	laid 	upon 	them, 	namely,
servile 	flattery, 	the 	abandonment 	of 	self-dignity, 	and 	the 	pros
tration 	of 	every 	high 	and 	noble 	sentiment.

48 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
XXXII.
(a) 	When 	some 	obtain 	at 	public 	feasts 	the 	place
Which 	shews 	a 	proud 	and 	high 	distinguished 	grace 	;
When 	recognition 	s 	flattering 	bow 	they 	gain,
While 	thou 	unknown, 	unheeded 	dost 	remain 	:
Far 	from 	thy 	breast 	drive 	all 	vain 	grief 	away,
What 	! 	these 	distinctions 	have 	not 	fallen to 	thee 	!
If 	good 	they 	be, 	tis 	meet 	thou 	shouldst 	rejoice
That 	they 	have 	happened 	to 	thy 	brother 	s 	choice 	;
If 	bad, 	what 	folly, 	madness 	to 	regret
That 	thou 	hadst 	not 	the 	vile 	distinctions 	met.
Still, 	if 	thou 	would 	those 	tinselled 	nothings 	gain,
Know, 	then, 	tis 	thine 	to 	exert 	thy 	strength 	amain,
To 	seek 	the 	path 	wherein 	these 	bubbles 	lie.
None, 	save 	who 	pay, 	can 	lawfully 	enjoy.
Thy 	tap 	be 	ceaseless 	at 	thy 	patron 	s 	door,
With 	kind 	enquiries 	ever 	sent 	before 	;
Pour 	flattery 	s 	boundless 	torrent 	o 	er 	his 	head 	;
Such 	is 	the 	price 	that 	ever 	must 	be 	paid.
Without 	such 	fee 	presume 	not 	thou 	to 	gain
Those 	glittering 	things, 	which 	none 	may 	e 	er 	attain
Save 	by 	these 	sole 	conditions. 	Then 	decline
To 	wish 	that 	they 	unpurchased 	should 	be 	thine.
O) 	And 	all 	their 	works 	they 	do 	for 	to 	be 	seen 	of 	men.
For 	they 	make 	their 	phylacteries 	broad 	and 	enlarge 	their
fringes. 	And 	they 	love 	the 	first 	places 	at 	feasts, 	and 	the 	first
chairs 	in 	the 	synagogues, 	and 	salutations 	in 	the 	market 	place,
and 	to 	be 	called 	by 	men 	Rabbi, 	.fee. 	Matthew, 	23 	chap., 	5-7 	ver.
Vide 	etiam, 	Mark, 	12 	chap., 	38 	ver., 	et 	Luke, 	11 	chap., 	43 	ver.

TffE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPIC TEWS. 	49
Lo 	! 	salad 	here 	for 	sale, 	say, 	wilt 	tliou 	buy 	?
&quot;The 	price?&quot; 	an 	obolus 	; 	&quot;oh, 	pooh 	I 	too 	high.&quot;
Another 	comes, 	and 	pays 	the 	value 	down 	;
What 	! 	wilt 	thou 	call 	that 	salad 	now 	thine 	own 	?
It 	were 	unjust 	: 	yet, 	thou 	dost 	not 	fare 	ill
He 	has 	the 	herb, 	but 	thou 	its 	value 	still.
And 	thus 	thro 	life, 	since 	every 	man 	must 	pay
For 	the 	enjoyments 	of 	each 	fleeting 	day 	:
Who 	gives 	to 	thee 	of 	bounty 	s 	gifts 	the 	least,
The 	sparkling 	pleasures 	of 	the 	genial 	feast,
Must 	get 	the 	price 	upon 	the 	banquet 	laid,
Be 	that 	in 	silver 	or 	in 	flattery 	paid.
Who, 	then, 	would 	take 	the 	meal 	and 	keep 	the 	due,
Must 	be 	insatiable, 	and 	silly 	too.
&quot;
But, 	ah, 	from 	me,&quot; 	thou 	criest, 	&quot;
all 	is 	fled,
The 	feast 	is 	gone, 	and 	I 	have 	nought 	instead.&quot;
What 	! 	is 	it 	nought 	to 	hold 	thy 	dignity
Untouch 	d, 	thy 	honour 	pure, 	thy 	spirit 	free 	?
A 	Patron 	s 	praise 	doth 	not 	engage 	thy 	tongue,
That 	praise 	which 	from 	the 	unwilling 	mind 	is 	wrung 	;
Thou 	dost 	not 	hie 	like 	lackey 	to 	his 	door,
Nor 	his 	proud 	look 	and 	haughty 	mien 	endure.

50 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETtfS*
SECTION 	15,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-THIRD 	CHAPTER,
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
The 	Laws 	of 	Nature 	and 	of 	Reason 	are 	in 	daily 	operation
before 	our 	eyes, 	and 	suggest 	themselves 	to 	us 	on 	every 	occa
sion 	in 	which 	the 	interests 	of 	our 	neighbours 	are 	concerned 	;
though 	we 	often 	shew 	ourselves blind 	to 	them 	in 	matters 	relating
to 	our personal 	concerns. 	It 	were 	well, 	therefore, 	if 	we 	our
selves 	acted, 	in 	all 	emergencies, 	in 	the 	manner 	in 	which 	we
would 	point 	out 	to 	others 	to 	conduct 	themselves 	in 	similar
positions, 	under 	the 	guidance 	of 	the 	dictates 	of 	Reason 	and 	of
Nature.
XXXIII.
(a) 	The 	Laws 	of 	Reason, 	Nature 	s 	firm 	decree,
We 	learn 	from 	things 	in 	which 	all 	men 	agree.
In 	simple 	things 	we 	trace 	out 	Reason 	s 	laws 	:
Lo 	! 	when 	thy 	neighbour 	s 	child 	hath 	broken 	a 	vase,
Or 	cut 	the 	shining 	board, 	or 	scratch 	d 	the 	plate,
We 	all 	exclaim, 	&quot;
Pooh, 	tis 	a 	common 	fate 	;&quot;
f 	We 	call 	him 	&quot;
fool,&quot; 	should 	he 	to 	anger 	rise,
For 	what 	occurs 	each 	day 	before 	our 	eyes.
When, 	then, 	to 	thee 	like 	accidents 	accrue,
Just 	act 	as 	thou 	would 	st 	.have 	thy 	neighbour 	do.
(a) 	A 	fool 	immediately 	sheweth 	his 	anger 	: 	but 	he 	that 	dis-
sembleth 	injuries 	is 	wise, 	Prov., 	12 	chap,, 	16 	ver.
f 	Note 	J,

ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETU3. 	61
And 	ever 	thus, 	whatever 	may 	thee 	befall
Be 	that 	of 	great 	importance, 	or 	of 	small.
Thy 	neighbour 	s 	child, 	or 	wife, 	or 	brother 	dies 	;
(a) &quot;
What 	folly 	thus 	to 	mourn,&quot; 	then 	each 	one 	cries.
But, 	thine 	the 	loss 	? 	indifferent 	now 	no 	more,
Thy 	griefs 	are 	loud, 	who 	called 	st 	griefs 	vain 	before
Forth 	bursts 	the 	plaint, &quot;
Alas, 	ah, 	woe 	is 	me,
Thus 	early 	robbed, 	my 	darling 	child, 	of 	thee.&quot;
Now, 	this 	one 	truth 	bear 	ever 	in 	thy 	mind,
Thine 	is 	the 	common 	lot 	of 	all 	mankind.
(#) 	Lege 	Prov.j 	3 	and 	4 	chaps., 	et 	Rom., 	12 	chap,

52 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EP1CTETUS.
SECTION 	16,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-FOURTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
The 	Great 	Creator 	of 	the 	Universe 	never 	wills 	evil 	to 	man 	;
for, 	whatever 	miseries 	we 	encounter 	in 	this 	life 	are of 	our 	own
creation 	; 	and 	it 	is 	within 	our 	province 	to 	evade 	them. 	Those
things 	which 	we 	call 	ills, 	are 	only 	ills 	when 	we 	deem 	them
so. 	It 	is 	our 	duty, 	as 	it 	is 	the part 	of 	wisdom, 	to 	spurn 	the
vile 	reproaches 	of 	those 	who 	would 	annoy 	and 	interrupt 	us 	in
our 	path 	of 	duty 	; 	and 	to 	move 	onward 	in 	the 	fearless 	dis
charge 	of 	those 	offices 	which 	are 	assigned 	to 	us, 	and 	which
wisdom 	and 	justice 	point out 	to 	us 	as 	fit 	to 	be 	pursued. 	In
every 	undertaking, 	we 	should 	consider 	the 	means 	which 	we
possess 	in 	designing 	to 	bring 	it 	to 	completion 	; 	if 	our 	means
are 	inadequate 	to 	the 	design, 	we 	should 	not 	proceed 	with 	it 	;
but, 	if 	sufficient, 	nothing 	should 	deter 	us 	from 	the 	task.
XXXIV.
(a) 	Who 	wings 	the 	flying 	dart, 	with 	fix 	d 	intent
To 	miss 	the 	mark 	to 	which 	the 	bow 	is 	bent 	? 	-
Not 	one 	; 	so 	ill 	was 	ne 	er 	by 	God 	design 	d
To 	bloom 	on 	earth, 	and 	govern 	human 	kind 	;
Ah, 	no, 	real 	evils 	live 	not 	here 	below,
Man 	makes 	his 	ills, 	man 	bids 	his 	sorrows 	flow.
(a) 	Lege 	Rom,, 	8 	chap,, 	et 	2 	Tim,, 	1 	chap.

TEE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	53
If 	some 	wretch 	seized 	thee 	on 	the 	public 	way,
And 	bade 	the 	mob 	thy 	naked 	body 	flay,
Thy 	breast 	at 	once 	heaves 	high 	with 	vengeful 	fire 	;
Full 	on 	the 	villain 	flows 	thy 	boiling 	ire.
(a) 	And 	yet, 	how 	oft 	we 	make 	our 	sufferings 	grow,
Invite 	our 	pains, 	and 	train 	up 	all 	our 	woe 	;
When 	we 	grow 	faint, 	and 	let 	our 	spirits 	droop
(&) 	At 	the 	reproach 	of 	some 	vile 	nincompoop.
(c) 	Hark 	! 	one 	advice 	; 	now, 	Wisdom 	s 	counsel 	heed,
Whate 	er 	the 	task 	to 	which 	thy 	mind 	may 	lead,
Consider 	well 	what 	means 	thou 	must 	devise,
And 	what 	results 	are 	likely 	to 	arise 	;
Be 	all 	the 	train 	of 	circumstances 	weigh 	d 	:
The 	task 	begin, 	thy 	wishes 	must 	succeed.
But, 	should 	st 	thou 	not 	this 	wise 	precaution 	take,
Thou 	shalt 	no 	progress 	in 	thy 	labours 	make 	;
Like 	those 	who 	idly 	court 	high 	deeds 	of 	fame,
Thy 	lot 	shall 	be 	discomfiture 	and 	shame.
(a) 	Vide 	Prov. 	passim 	; 	etiam 	Nov. 	Tes. 	omnibus 	locis.
(&) 	He 	that 	walketh 	in 	the 	right 	way, 	and 	feareth 	God, 	is
despised 	by 	him 	that 	goeth 	by 	an 	infamous 	way. 	In 	the
mouth 	of 	a 	fool 	is 	the 	rod 	of 	pride 	: 	but 	the 	lips 	of 	the 	wise
preserve 	them. 	Prov. 	14 	chap., 	1, 	2 	ver.
(c) 	Doth 	not 	wisdom 	cry 	aloud, 	and 	prudence 	put 	forth 	her
voice 	1 	Standing 	in 	the top 	of 	the 	highest 	places 	by 	the 	way,
in 	the 	midst 	of 	the 	paths, 	beside 	the 	gates 	of 	the 	city, 	in 	the
very 	doors 	she 	speaketh, 	saying, 	&c. 	Prov. 	8 	chap., 	1, 3, 	&c., 	ver,

54 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	17,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-FIFTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is, 	no 	doubt, 	a 	delightful 	thing 	to 	come 	off triumphant 	in
whatever 	contest 	we 	engage 	; 	and 	a 	thrilling 	pleasure 	circles
through 	every 	vein 	from 	the 	contemplation 	of 	successful 	enter
prise 	: 	but 	we 	should 	recollect 	the 	difficulties, 	the 	labours, 	the
self-denials, 	and 	the 	disappointments 	which 	interpose 	them
selves 	between 	us 	and 	the 	attainment 	of 	these 	pleasing
triumphs. 	We 	should 	also 	remember 	that, 	notwithstanding 	all
the 	privations, 	toils, 	and 	sufferings 	to 	which 	we 	might 	thus 	be
subjected 	in 	our 	pursuit 	of 	Glory, 	the 	possession 	of 	it 	might
never 	be 	ours 	; 	and 	we 	should 	have 	not 	only 	to 	endure 	the
loss 	of 	our 	labours, 	but 	likewise 	the 	negation 	of 	those
pleasures 	and 	enjoyments 	which 	our 	exorbitant 	thirst 	after
fame 	had 	led 	us 	to 	forego. 	Wanting, 	therefore, 	the 	necessary
means 	for 	the 	accomplishment 	of 	any 	particular 	object, 	and
unable 	to 	encounter 	the 	difficulties 	and 	privations 	which 	in
tercept 	the 	path 	to 	its 	attainment, 	it 	is 	the 	province 	of 	Wisdom
to 	turn 	away 	the 	mind 	from 	too 	severe 	a 	contemplation 	of 	it.
Under 	such 	circumstances, 	to 	direct 	our 	attention, 	in turns, 	to
different 	objects, 	and 	not 	to 	suffer 	the 	mind 	to 	dwell 	too 	long
upon 	or 	enter 	too 	deeply 	into 	any 	one 	pursuit, 	is 	the 	wisest
plan 	of 	life, 	and 	the 	most 	conducive 	to 	human 	happiness.
As 	children 	change 	their 	toys, 	so 	should 	we 	our 	delectations,
leaving 	to 	those 	whose 	especial 	province 	it 	would 	seem 	to 	be,
to 	indulge 	their 	tastes 	in 	the 	continuous 	pursuit of 	objects, 	to
the 	attainment 	of 	which 	we 	might 	never 	be 	able 	to 	succeed.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	55
XXXV.
A 	love 	of 	Conquest 	thy 	whole 	breast 	inflames 	;
Thou 	would 	st 	be 	victor 	in 	th 	Olympian 	games 	;
And 	I, 	by 	Jove 	! 	a 	lovely 	thing 	! 	but, 	hear 	;
Consider 	first 	the 	labours 	thou 	must 	bear 	;
What 	toils, 	privations 	thou 	must 	undergo,
And 	what 	results 	thence 	likely 	are 	to 	flow.
Thee 	it 	behoves 	from 	pleasures 	to 	abstain 	;
From 	Bacchus 	gifts 	and 	luxuries 	to 	refrain 	:
A 	master 	tells 	thy 	food, 	how 	much, 	and 	when,
As 	Doctors 	do 	their 	patients 	regimen 	;
Apportioned 	exercise 	thou 	too 	must 	take,
Thy 	ease, 	desires, 	and 	appetites 	forsake.
The 	day 	arrives 	; 	with 	body 	oil 	d 	and 	sleek,
And 	nerves 	prepared, 	thou 	dost 	th 	arena 	seek.
Lo 	! 	the 	disasters 	likely 	to 	ensue 	;
May 	not 	thy 	leg 	be 	broken, 	and 	arm, 	too 	?
Antagonist 	strength 	thy 	yielding 	back 	may 	strain,
And 	dash 	thee 	headlong 	on 	the 	reeking 	plain 	;
Or 	dex 	trous 	give 	the 	nicely-measured 	thrust,
That 	makes 	thee 	prostrate 	bite 	the 	blood-stain 	d 	dust 	;
Thus 	bruised 	and 	maimed 	the 	fight 	thou 	dost 	forego,
And 	Victory 	s 	chaplet 	withers 	from 	thy 	brow.
With 	truths 	like 	these 	apparent 	to 	thy 	mind
For 	the 	fierce 	combat 	thou 	art 	still 	inclined 	:
Go 	on 	; 	enjoy 	thy 	whim, 	indulge 	thy 	taste,
And 	to 	rough 	labours 	of 	the Circus 	haste,

56 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
(a) 	But, 	if 	in 	thee 	far 	different 	thoughts 	arise,
Thine 	aim 	then 	change 	as 	children 	change 	their 	toys.
Now, 	they, 	bold 	champions, 	strive 	in 	mimic 	fight 	;
And 	now 	in 	wrestling 	bouts 	they 	take 	delight 	;
Then 	turn 	tragedians, 	feign 	the 	actor 	s 	ire 	;
And 	minstrels 	now, 	they 	strike 	the 	sounding 	lyre.
Thus 	act 	thro 	life, 	nor 	let 	thy 	whole 	mind 	stray
On 	one 	vain 	toy, 	thro 	each 	revolving 	day 	:
Let 	feats 	of 	strength, 	and 	games 	one 	day 	engage
Thy 	ardour 	; 	next, 	the 	single 	combat 	wage.
To-day 	let 	Rhetoric 	all 	thy 	ardor 	claim 	;
To-morrow 	swagger 	in 	a 	Sophist 	s 	name.
Thus 	ever 	pleased 	with 	each 	quick 	changing 	state,
Learn, 	like 	the 	ape, 	all 	tricks 	to 	imitate.
(&) 	Enough 	for 	thee, 	for 	thou 	had 	st 	ne 	er 	design 	d
To 	fix 	on 	aught 	a 	deep 	abstracted 	mind,
To 	search 	the 	depth 	of 	things, 	with 	firm 	resolve,
To 	know 	each 	secret, 	and 	each 	doubt 	to 	solve 	:
No 	; 	careless, 	slow, 	indifferent, 	and 	cool,
Twas 	whim 	and 	fancy 	bade 	thee 	to 	the 	goal.
O) 	I 	have 	seen 	all 	things 	that 	are 	done 	under 	the 	sun,
and 	behold 	all 	is 	vanity 	and 	vexation 	of 	spirit. 	Ecclesiastes,
1 	chap., 	14 	ver. 	Again 	: 	And 	I 	have 	given 	my 	heart 	to 	know
prudence, 	and 	learning, 	and 	errors, 	and 	folly 	; 	and 	I 	have 	per
ceived 	that 	in 	these 	also 	there 	was 	labour, 	and 	vexation 	of
spirit. 	Because 	in 	much 	wisdom 	there 	is 	much 	indignation 	;
and 	lie 	that 	addeth 	knowledge 	addeth 	also 	labour. 	Ecclesias
tes, 	1 	chap., 	17, 	18 	ver.
(Z&amp;gt;) 	The 	sluggard 	willeth, 	and 	willeth 	not 	; 	but 	the 	soul 	of
them 	that 	work 	shall 	be 	made 	fat, 	Prov., 	13 	chap., 	4 	ver,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	57
Thus some 	who 	hear 	great 	Socrates 	admired
On 	sudden 	grow 	philosophers 	inspired 	;
Each 	nerve 	to 	win 	philos 	phy 	s 	goal 	they 	strain,
And 	fancy 	wisdom 	swelling 	in 	each 	vein.

58 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	18,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-SIXTH 	CHAPTEK.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
Different 	pursuits 	require 	different 	faculties 	in 	order 	to
effect 	a 	successful 	issue 	; 	and 	he 	who 	may 	possess 	the 	requisite
powers 	for 	some 	particular 	employment 	may 	be 	entirely
deficient 	of 	those 	which 	are 	essential 	to 	the 	duties 	and 	require
ments 	of another. 	In 	every 	undertaking, 	therefore, 	we 	should
first 	consider 	the 	exact 	nature 	of 	the 	offices 	which 	are 	requir
ed 	to 	be 	performed, 	and 	whether 	we 	are 	in 	a 	condition, 	with
reference 	to 	the 	qualities 	and 	faculties 	which 	we 	possess, 	to
proceed 	in 	our design 	with 	a 	reasonable 	expectation 	of 	final
success. 	And 	not 	only 	are 	we 	to 	regard 	the 	innate 	powers
which 	we 	may 	possess 	for 	the 	accomplishment 	of 	the object 	in
view, 	but 	we 	must 	likewise 	reflect 	whether 	the 	extrinsic 	cir
cumstances 	which 	surround 	the 	attainment 	of 	that 	object 	be
such 	as 	we 	are 	prepared 	to 	encounter 	and 	overcome. 	He 	who
loves 	to 	win 	the 	admiration 	of the 	gazing 	throng 	by 	exhibiting
his 	person 	in 	the 	public 	arena, 	where 	deeds 	of 	strength, 	and
feats 	of dexterity 	and 	skill 	display 	their 	empire, 	and 	promise
wreathes 	of 	enduring 	laurels 	to 	the 	manly 	victor 	; 	lie 	must
weigh 	well 	his 	bodily 	powers, 	and 	be 	prepared, 	ere 	he 	ven
tures 	upon 	his 	darling 	enterprise, 	to 	undergo 	the 	innumerable
trials, 	toils, 	and 	privations 	which 	are 	inseparable 	from 	suc
cess. 	The 	aspirant 	to 	the 	sage 	s 	name 	must 	also 	reflect 	upon
the 	difficulties 	and 	personal 	self -negations 	which 	lie 	between
liiin 	and 	the 	pleasing 	object of 	his 	heart 	s 	desire. 	So 	it 	is 	witfy

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	59
all 	men, 	in 	all 	the 	pursuits 	of 	life 	; 	to 	arrive at 	success 	in 	any
department 	of 	human 	action, 	the 	means 	must 	be 	measured 	to
the 	end 	; 	and 	the 	chances 	which 	encircle 	each 	enterprise
must 	be 	calculated 	before 	such 	enterprise 	is 	commenced. 	But
having 	once 	prepared 	ourselves 	by 	previous 	reflection 	and
calculation 	to 	pursue 	some 	favourite 	object, 	we 	should 	not
hesitate 	one 	moment 	from 	its 	pursuit, 	but 	apply 	ourselves
with 	vigour 	and 	determination 	to 	its 	acquisition 	; 	we 	should
not 	halt 	upon 	the 	way, 	or 	turn 	aside 	from 	the 	path 	upon
which 	we 	have 	entered, 	or 	permit 	ourselves 	to 	be 	for 	one
instant 	diverted 	from 	it 	to 	the 	consideration 	of 	any 	other
subject.
XXXVI.
(a) 	Would 	st 	thou 	thy 	strength 	to 	some 	pursuit 	apply 	?
Learn, 	first, 	frail 	man, 	its 	nature 	to 	descry 	;
The 	likely 	labours 	with 	thy 	force 	compare 	;
See 	if 	thy 	back 	the 	pressing 	weight 	may 	bear.
The 	wish 	deep-cherished 	may, 	perchance, 	be 	thine
In 	feats 	of 	skill 	and 	deeds 	of 	strength 	to 	shine 	;
To 	pitch 	the 	quoit, 	the 	well -poised 	dart 	to 	throw 	;
Thy 	matchless 	art 	in 	boxing 	rings 	to 	shew.
How 	are 	thine 	arms 	? 	say, 	are 	the 	muscles 	strong 	?
And 	to 	thy 	loins 	does 	strength 	and 	power 	belong 	?
(a) 	Strive 	not 	in 	a 	matter 	which 	doth 	not 	concern 	thee, 	and
sit 	not 	in 	judgment 	with 	sinners. 	My 	son, 	meddle 	not 	with
many 	matters 	; 	and 	if 	thou 	be 	rich 	thou 	shalt 	not be 	free 	from
sin 	: 	for, 	if 	thou 	pursue 	after, 	thou 	shalt 	not 	overtake 	: 	and 	if
thou 	run 	before 	thou 	shalt 	not 	escape, 	&c. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	11
chap., 	9, 	10 	ver.

60 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Thy 	joints 	well-knit, 	and 	such 	as 	may 	not 	tire 	?
Know, 	various 	arts 	do 	various 	powers 	require.
Turn 	now 	and 	mark 	the 	path 	where 	Wisdom 	lies 	:
Lo, 	there, 	what 	vast 	privations 	meet 	thine 	eyes
Incessant 	toil, 	attendant 	of 	the 	Sage,
And 	midnight 	ponderings 	o 	er 	the 	learned 	page 	;
The 	sacrifice 	of 	sweet 	domestic 	joys 	;
The 	secret 	titter 	of 	the 	serving 	boys 	;
(a) 	To 	fill 	no 	place 	in 	Honour 	s 	bright 	array 	;
In 	Power 	s 	proud 	ranks 	to 	hold 	no 	signal 	sway 	;
To 	lose 	what 	cause 	to 	Court 	you 	chance 	to 	bring 	;
In 	short, 	to 	hold 	the 	worst 	of 	everything 	;
Yes, 	such 	the 	tax 	on 	Wisdom 	s 	votaries 	laid,
For 	learned 	ease, 	for 	peace, 	and 	Freedom 	paid.
Then, 	ponder 	well, 	and 	if 	thou 	would 	st 	pursue
Thy 	course, 	act 	not 	as 	changeful 	children 	do,
Who 	represent 	in 	play 	s 	revolving 	parts
Men 	s 	various 	callings, 	stratagems, 	and 	arts.
They 	now 	as 	Tax-collectors 	strutting 	go 	;
And 	sputtering 	Wisdom 	s 	rules 	now 	Sages 	grow 	;
Then 	Rhetoricians 	; 	then 	great 	Caesar 	s 	steward 	;
Thus 	changing 	ever, 	with 	new 	scenes 	allur 	d.
Be 	thou 	one 	man, 	one 	course of 	action 	take,
(6) 	And 	walk 	in 	Wisdom* 	s, 	or 	in 	Folly 	s 	wake 	;
(a) 	Where 	pride 	is 	there 	also 	shall 	be 	reproach 	: 	but 	where
humility 	is 	there 	also 	is 	wisdom. 	Prov., 	11 	chap., 	2 	ver. 	Again 	:
The 	fear 	of 	the 	Lord 	is 	the 	lesson 	of 	wisdom 	: 	and 	humility
goeth 	before 	glory. 	Prov., 	15 	chap., 	33 	ver.
(J) 	Who 	is 	not 	wise 	must 	necessarily 	be 	foolish. 	Vide 	Prov,
passim,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPlCTETUS. 	61
Let 	all 	thy 	vigour 	In 	one 	channel 	flow
On 	this 	or 	that 	thy 	ardour 	all 	bestow 	;
External 	things 	let 	all 	thy 	mind 	engage,
Or 	the 	internal 	treasures 	of 	the 	Sage 	;
Between 	these 	two 	exists 	no 	middle 	rule,
Thou 	must 	be 	either, 	wiseman, 	or 	a 	fool*

62 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF EPlCTETU$t
SECTION 	19,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-SEVENTH 	CHAPTER
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
We 	should 	be always 	obedient 	to 	the 	dictates 	of 	Reason 	;
and 	our 	entire 	conduct 	should 	be 	such 	as 	squared 	with 	the
laws 	of 	society. 	When 	annoyance 	comes 	to 	us 	from 	sources
whence 	we 	least 	expect 	it, 	we 	should 	not, 	under 	the 	assump
tion 	that 	such 	was 	not 	to 	be 	borne 	because 	contrary
conduct 	appeared 	to 	us 	to 	be 	that 	which 	was 	naturally 	to 	be
expected; 	we 	should 	not 	manifest 	ill-will 	or 	impatience
under 	such 	annoyance 	; 	but, 	on 	the 	contrary, 	bear 	it 	with
submission 	and 	deference 	to 	the 	Divine 	Will. 	We 	ought,
under 	all 	circumstances, 	to 	obey 	the 	dictates 	of 	duty 	; 	and 	by
such 	obedience 	no 	malice 	or 	injury 	can 	affect 	us. 	If 	the
injury 	which 	we 	receive 	be 	from 	the 	hands 	of 	a 	father,
brother, 	or 	any 	other 	person 	connected 	with 	us 	by 	the 	ties 	of
Nature, 	equal 	patience 	and 	submission 	should 	characterise 	our
demeanour, 	because 	it 	is 	our 	duty 	to 	know 	that 	Nature 	never
bound 	nerself 	to 	give 	us 	relatives 	who 	should 	never 	do 	us 	any
evil.
To 	discharge 	faithfully 	the 	duties 	which 	we 	owe 	to 	every
individual 	and 	to 	society 	in 	general, 	is 	the 	true 	way 	to 	obtain
the 	respect 	and 	admiration 	of 	men.
XXXVII.
By 	Reason 	s 	laws be 	thy 	whole 	conduct 	steer 	d 	;
Be 	all 	thy 	acts 	to 	decent 	custom 	squar 	d 	:

TUE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
(a) 	Hast 	tliou 	a 	father 	? 	be 	his 	will 	obey 	d 	;
And 	shew 	thy 	patience, 	should 	he 	e 	er 	upbraid,
Or 	even 	beat 	thee 	; 	tis 	thy 	duty 	still
To 	pay 	a 	due 	submission 	to 	his 	will.
&quot;
Ah, 	he 	s 	unkind 	and 	bad,&quot; 	tliou 	dost 	exclaim 	;
And, 	what 	of 	that 	? 	thy 	duty 	s 	still 	the 	same 	:
Nature 	to 	thee 	herself 	did 	never 	bind
Vhat 	thou 	should 	st 	have 	a 	father 	good 	and 	kind.
Then 	doth 	thy 	brother 	hurt 	or 	injure 	thee 	?
Drive 	all 	ill-will 	far 	from 	thy 	breast 	away 	;
Forgive 	th 	offence, 	and 	let 	thy 	bearing 	shew
That 	all 	thy 	acts 	from 	Duty 	s 	fountain 	flow 	:
For, 	know, 	thou 	canst 	all 	injury 	forfend,
If 	thy 	own 	mind 	to 	rightful 	actions 	tend.
(&) 	First 	learn 	the 	various 	social 	laws 	to 	know,
And 	all 	the 	duties 	we 	to 	others 	owe 	;
Then 	these 	observe, 	and 	all 	men 	shall 	agree
To 	pay 	esteem 	and 	reverence 	to 	thee.
O) 	A 	wise son 	heareth 	the 	doctrine 	of 	his 	father 	: 	but 	he
that 	is 	a 	scorner 	heareth 	not 	when 	he 	is 	reproved. 	Prov., 	13
chap., 	1 	ver. 	Again 	: 	Honor 	thy 	father 	and 	thy 	mother, 	that
thou 	mayst 	be 	long-lived 	upon 	the 	land 	which 	the 	Lord 	thy
God 	will 	give 	thee. 	Exod., 	20 	chap., 	12 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Matthew,
15 	chap., 	4 	ver., 	et 	al 	lo.
(&) 	My 	son, 	forget 	not 	my 	law, 	and 	let 	thy 	heart 	keep 	my
commandments. 	For 	they 	shall 	add 	to 	thee 	length 	of 	days, 	and
years 	of 	life 	and 	peace. 	Let not 	mercy 	and 	truth 	leave 	thee,
put 	them 	around 	thy 	neck, 	and 	write 	them 	in 	the 	tables 	of 	thy
heart 	: 	And 	thou 	shalt 	find 	grace 	and 	good 	understanding
before 	God 	and 	men, 	Prov., 	3 	chap., 	1-4 	ver. 	Lege 	etiam, 	Bom.,
12 	and 	13 	chap.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	20,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-EIGHTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
To 	believe 	that 	all 	things 	are 	designed 	for 	our 	good, 	is 	the
foundation 	of 	all 	piety. 	All 	our 	actions 	should 	be such 	as 	to
shew 	that 	we 	place 	our 	chief 	reliance 	on 	the 	heavenly 	powers,
and 	that 	we 	are 	imprest 	with 	the 	sincere 	belief 	that 	all 	the
events 	of 	life 	proceed 	from 	their 	hands. 	And 	in 	order 	to
cherish 	and 	cultivate 	this 	just 	and 	felicitous 	doctrine, 	we
should 	never 	rush 	beyond 	the 	limits 	of 	our 	sphere, 	or 	aspire 	to
things 	beyond 	our 	power 	to 	attain 	; 	for the 	anguish 	of 	disap
pointment 	may 	rise 	within 	our 	breasts, 	and 	we 	may 	be 	tempted
to 	inveigh 	against 	Heaven.
Nature 	hath 	implanted 	in 	every 	breast 	the 	desire 	to 	fly 	from
evil, 	and 	to 	cling 	to 	those 	things 	which 	give 	profit 	and
delight. 	Wherefore, 	we 	find 	that 	none 	can 	receive 	wrong
with 	indifference, 	or 	regard 	with 	satisfaction 	the 	cause 	from
which 	it 	springs.
From 	all 	these 	considerations, 	it 	is 	evidently the 	interest 	of
all, 	as 	it 	is 	most 	assuredly 	our 	duty, 	to 	abstain 	from 	all 	exorbi
tant 	desires, 	and 	be 	content 	with 	those 	things 	which 	are
attainable 	within 	our 	own 	proper 	sphere 	; 	to 	worship 	and
obey 	the 	Divine 	Will 	in 	all 	things 	; 	and 	to 	steer 	clear 	of
everything 	calculated 	to 	ruffle 	the 	fair 	surface 	of 	our 	peace,
or 	destroy 	the 	sweetness 	of 	equanimity.

ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	65
XXXVIII.
f 	What 	gives 	true 	piety 	its 	worth 	ami 	grace,
Thus 	thro 	the 	feelings 	of 	the 	mind 	we 	trace 	;
(a) 	To 	deem 	the 	gods 	impartial 	and 	all-wise 	;
That 	all 	things 	ordered 	from 	their 	hands 	arise 	;
And 	so 	imprest, 	to 	yield 	to 	their 	decrees,
Obey 	their 	will, 	and 	follow 	where 	they 	please 	;
Convinced 	thou 	movest 	neath 	the 	chief 	control
That 	highest 	spirits 	lead thee 	to 	the 	goal.
So 	at 	the 	gods 	thy 	tongue 	shall 	never 	rail,
Nor 	as 	unjust 	their 	wise 	decrees 	assail.
Yet, 	from 	thee 	drive 	(ah, 	to 	this 	rule 	adhere)
What 	things 	belong 	not 	to 	thy 	proper 	sphere 	;
Those 	neath 	thy 	power 	thy 	subjects 	only 	deem,
And 	such 	alone 	as 	good 	or 	bad 	esteem 	;
Lest 	seeking 	that 	beyond 	thy 	power 	to 	gain,
Thy 	search 	prove 	fruitless, 	and 	thy 	wish 	be 	vain 	;
(6) 	And 	torturing 	anguish 	in 	thy 	breast 	arise,
Thy 	rising 	wrath 	be 	levelled 	at 	the 	skies.
Such 	is 	the 	anger, 	such 	the 	vengeful 	ire,
That 	follows 	from 	unsatisfied 	desire.
f 	See note 	J.
(tf) 	Glory 	not 	in 	apparel 	at 	any 	time, 	and 	be 	not 	exalted 	in
the 	day 	of 	thy 	honour 	: 	for 	the 	works 	of 	the 	Highest 	only 	are
wonderful, 	and 	his 	works 	are 	glorious, 	and 	secret, 	and 	hidden.
Ecclesiasticus, 	11 	ch., 	4 	ver.
(6) 	A 	caution 	against 	the 	indulgence 	of 	inordinate 	desires,
Lege 	Prov., 7 	ch,

66 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS;
For 	Nature 	to 	the 	human 	breast 	supplies
The 	wish 	that 	from 	impending 	evil 	flies 	;
Which 	bids 	us 	seize 	at 	first 	approaching 	sight
Those 	things 	which 	promise 	profit 	and 	delight 	:
Hence 	none, 	for, 	such 	are 	Nature 	s 	changeless 	laws,
Can 	favour 	wrong, 	or 	love 	its 	moving 	cause.
Thus, 	oft 	the 	son, 	by 	rising 	fury 	led,
Pours 	forth 	reproaches 	on 	his 	father 	s 	head,
Because 	he 	had 	the 	youth 	s 	desires 	withstood,
Nor 	gave 	him 	that 	he 	deem 	d 	the 	greatest 	good.
Thus, 	ruled 	by 	love 	of 	arbitrary 	sway,
The 	Theban 	brothers 	met 	in 	bloody 	fray.
And 	thus, 	the 	farmer, 	merchant, 	sailor, 	all
Assail 	the 	gods, 	if 	aught 	of 	ill 	befall
(a) 	Their 	darling 	schemes 	: 	And 	when 	fond 	hope 	expires,
Tis 	gain 	alone 	their 	piety 	inspires.
Cease 	thy 	desires 	as 	useless, 	weak, 	and 	vain 	;
Adore 	the 	gods, 	and 	urge 	thy 	task 	amain 	:
Be 	pure 	libations 	poured, 	and 	offerings 	brought,
Of 	the 	first 	fruits, 	e 	en 	as 	our 	fathers 	taught 	;
And 	let 	these 	rites 	in 	graceful 	manner 	be
Both 	from 	excess 	and 	parsimony 	free.
(&) 	The 	desire 	of 	the 	just 	is 	all 	good 	: 	the 	expectation 	of 	the
wicked 	is 	indignation. 	Prov., 	11 	ch., 	23 	ver.

ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	67
SECTION 	21,
CONTAINING 	THE 	THIRTY-NINTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
In 	all 	our 	supplications 	to 	Heaven 	we 	should 	be 	governed
by 	a 	sense 	of 	that 	which 	appertains 	to 	our 	particular 	state 	:
nor, 	in 	seeking 	the 	light 	and 	aid 	of 	the 	Divine 	Will, 	should
we 	allow 	our 	thoughts 	to 	wander 	beyond 	those 	limits 	which
form 	the 	boundaries 	of 	our 	individual 	province 	here 	below.
A 	becoming 	modesty 	should 	accompany 	all 	our 	wishes 	; 	while^
at 	the 	same 	time, 	we 	should not 	display 	a 	fearful 	anxiety 	in
preferring 	them 	to 	the 	Celestial 	Throne. 	And 	whatever 	the
Powers 	above 	may 	deem 	proper 	to 	decree 	for 	us, 	we 	should
accept 	it 	with 	deep 	reverence 	and 	submission, 	ever 	resolved 	to
walk 	in 	the 	path 	which 	Heaven 	points 	out 	to 	us, 	without
repining 	at 	our 	lot, 	or 	displaying 	an 	overweening 	desire 	for
other 	positions.
-
In 	our 	enquiries 	as to 	those 	points 	which 	constitute 	the 	line
of 	duty 	which 	it 	is 	for 	us 	to 	pursue, 	we 	should 	remember 	that
there 	are 	some 	of 	them 	so 	wound 	up 	with 	our 	nature, 	and 	so
inseparable 	from 	our 	very 	being 	; 	which 	form 	a 	component
part 	of 	our 	feelings 	; 	and 	are 	so 	entwined 	with 	every 	impulse
of 	the 	human 	heart, 	as 	to 	be 	rendered 	clear 	and 	intelligible 	to
every 	mind, 	as 	forming 	important 	portions 	of 	our 	duties.
Such 	are 	these 	to 	redress 	the 	wrongs 	and 	sufferings 	of 	our
country 	; 	and 	to 	afford 	aid 	to 	our 	friends 	in 	distress,

68 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
No 	consideration 	of injury 	or 	evil 	consequence 	to 	ourselves,
should 	for 	a 	moment 	deter 	us 	from 	the 	performance 	of 	these
duties 	: 	and 	the 	wretch 	who 	would 	turn 	from 	the 	discharge 	of
those 	primary 	and 	all -important 	offices 	would 	be 	a 	fit 	object
for 	the 	detestation 	of 	God 	and 	of 	man.
XXXIX.
Dost 	thou 	the 	gods 	prophetic 	temples 	seek,
Where 	soothsayers 	bid 	the 	deep 	response 	awake 	?
What 	motive 	leads 	thee 	to 	the 	sacred 	place 	?
Tis 	this 	some 	future 	dark 	event 	to 	trace.
If 	thou 	be 	wise, 	how 	easy 	tis 	to 	see
Of 	what 	importance 	that 	may 	turn 	to 	thee 	:
And 	if 	it 	lie 	beyond 	thy proper 	sphere,
It 	should 	to 	thee 	nor 	good 	nor 	bad 	appear.
Approach 	not 	then 	the 	gods 	with 	anxious 	dread,
Nor 	ask 	th 	event 	with 	trembling 	fear 	o 	erspread 	;
Resolved 	to 	bear 	with 	equal 	mind 	and 	free
What 	thing 	soe 	er 	the 	heavenly 	powers 	decree 	:
Let 	thy 	approach 	becoming 	grace 	display,
And 	nothing 	shall 	obstruct 	thy 	even 	way.
So, 	when 	the 	grave 	response 	to 	thee 	is 	giv 	n,
Bow 	deep 	submission 	to 	the 	will 	of 	Heav 	n 	;
Hear 	the 	gods 	counsel 	and 	their 	will 	await 	;
(a) 	Nor 	lightly 	view 	the 	stern 	decrees 	of 	fate.
(a) 	The 	great 	man, 	and 	the 	judge, 	and 	the 	mighty, 	is 	in
honour 	: 	and 	there 	is 	none 	greater 	than he 	that 	feareth 	God.
Ecclesiasticus, 	10 	ch., 	27 	ver. 	Why 	therefore 	hast 	thou 	despised

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	69
Learn, 	like 	great 	Socrates, 	to 	seek 	the 	shrine
And 	sacred 	altars 	of 	the 	Powers 	divine 	:
When 	dark 	and 	mystic 	visions 	filled 	his 	brain,
And 	reason 	sought 	t 	unravel 	them 	in 	vain 	;
Things 	that 	could 	not 	by 	other 	means 	be 	known
Save 	the 	omniscience 	of 	the 	gods 	alone 	;
He 	Heaven 	implored 	to 	grant 	its 	kindly 	aid
To 	pierce 	the 	close 	and 	deep 	encumbering 	shade 	;
To 	cast 	the 	dark 	event 	in 	open 	light,
And 	yield 	it 	splendent 	to 	his 	longing 	sight.
f 	But, 	when 	thy 	friend 	to 	danger 	is 	betray 	d,
And 	when 	thy 	country 	s 	wrongs 	demand 	thy 	aid,
Pause 	not 	to 	learn 	the 	gods 	all-wise 	decree,
What 	accidents 	may 	hence 	accrue 	to 	thee 	:
For, tho 	the sacred 	omens 	might 	declare
That 	slavery 	or 	death 	should 	be 	thy 	share,
(a) 	Still 	let 	not 	this, 	tho 	dire, 	with 	thee 	prevail
Gainst 	friend 	and 	country 	in 	the 	counter 	scale.
the 	word 	of 	the 	Lord, 	to 	do 	evil 	in 	my 	sight 	? 	&c. 	2 	Kings, 	12
ch., 	9 	ver.
I 	beseech 	you, 	therefore, 	brethren, 	by 	the 	mercy 	of 	God, 	that
you 	present 	your 	bodies 	a 	living- 	sacrifice, 	holy, 	pleasing 	unto
God, 	your 	reasonable 	service. 	Bom., 	12 	ch., 	1 	ver. 	Vide 	sac.
scrip, 	passim.
f 	See 	note 	K.
(a) 	By 	the 	blessing 	of 	the 	just 	the 	city 	shall 	be 	exalted 	: 	and
by 	the 	mouth 	of 	the 	wicked 	it 	shall 	be 	overthrown. 	He 	that
despiseth 	his 	friend 	is 	mean 	of 	heart 	: 	but 	the 	wise 	man 	will
hold 	his 	peace. 	Prov., 	11 	ch., 	12 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Prov., 	12 	ch.,
26 	ver.

70 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Be 	Pythias 	conduct 	in 	thy 	breast 	inscrib 	d,
And 	follow 	thou 	the 	path 	that 	God 	prescrib 	d,
Who 	from 	his 	temple 	scourg 	d 	the 	wretch 	away
Pursuing 	him 	ever 	with 	his 	parching 	ray
The 	heartless 	wretch 	who 	had 	refused 	to 	lend
A 	succouring 	arm 	to his 	dying 	friend,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	71
SECTION 	22,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FORTIETH 	AND 	FORTY-FIRST 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
Our 	conduct 	through 	life 	ought 	to 	be 	guided 	by 	some 	fixed
principles, 	which 	should 	be 	always 	present 	to 	the 	mind, 	and
exemplified 	in 	all 	our 	relations 	with 	men.
We 	should 	always 	keep 	a 	restraint 	upon 	our 	tongues, 	and
forbear 	to 	give 	utterance 	to 	vain 	and 	idle 	thoughts. 	When
the 	occasion 	demands 	our 	conversation, 	our 	words 	should 	be
few 	and 	well 	considered 	; 	our 	demeanour 	should 	be 	modest
and 	unassuming 	;
and 	our 	whole 	carriage 	graceful. 	All 	the
circumstances 	of 	time, 	place, 	and 	subject 	should 	be 	duly
weighed, 	so 	that 	our 	language 	might 	be 	such 	as 	should 	conform
to 	each 	of 	these, 	and 	leave 	no 	invidious 	impression 	behind 	it.
We 	should 	be 	careful 	to 	avoid 	the 	discussion 	of 	public
topics 	: 	such 	as, 	who 	came 	off 	with 	the 	greatest 	honour 	in 	the
late 	contest 	; 	who 	manifested 	the 	highest 	address 	in 	the 	last
ring 	; 	who 	was 	the best 	man 	in 	such 	and 	such 	a 	debate. 	But,
above 	all 	things, 	we 	should 	refrain 	from 	offering 	strictures
upon 	men 	s 	conduct, 	and 	from 	expatiating 	on 	their 	vices 	and
their 	virtues.
XL.
To 	some 	fixed 	rule 	at 	once 	thy 	mind 	incline 	;
A 	firm 	unwavering 	course 	of 	life 	be 	thine 	:
Let 	this 	appear 	to 	thine 	own 	mind 	within 	;
Preserve 	it 	thro 	thy 	various 	walks 	with 	men.

72 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EP1CTETUS.
XLI.
f 	First 	learn 	thy 	tongue 	s 	full 	freedom 	to 	restrain 	;
Nor 	let 	thy 	language 	ever 	flow 	in 	vain 	:
But, 	when 	th 	occasion 	urges 	thee 	to 	speak,
(a) 	Thy 	words 	be 	few, 	and 	all 	thy 	bearing 	meek.
The 	time, 	place, 	matter, 	must 	be 	duly 	weigh 	d 	;
And 	public 	topics 	should 	be ne 	er 	essay 	d,
As, 	who 	in 	hard-fought 	fields 	have 	won 	the 	prize 	;
Who 	in 	the 	race 	before 	his 	fellows 	flies 	;
Who 	in 	the 	ring 	the 	greatest 	prowess 	shows,
And 	in 	the 	dust 	his 	prostrate 	rival 	throws 	;
And 	meat 	and 	drink 	those 	things 	which 	evermore
The 	common 	herd 	discourse 	and 	ponder 	o 	er.
But, 	chief, 	from 	strictures 	on 	men 	s 	acts 	forbear,
Nor 	for 	their 	faults 	and 	virtues 	shew 	thy 	care,
Blame 	! 	Praise 	! 	oh, 	never 	let 	the 	task 	be 	thine
To 	draw 	the 	hateful 	demarcating 	line.
f 	See note 	L.
() 	He 	that 	keepeth 	his 	mouth 	and 	his 	tongue, 	keepeth 	his
soul 	from 	distress. 	Prov., 21 	ch., 	23 	ver. 	He 	that 	setteth 	bounds
to 	his 	words, 	is 	knowing- 	and 	wise 	: 	and 	the 	man 	of 	under
standing 	is 	of 	a 	precious 	spirit. 	Even 	a 	fool, 	if 	he 	will 	hold
his 	peace, 	shall 	be 	counted 	wise 	: 	and 	if 	he 	close 	his 	lips, 	a 	man
of 	understanding. 	Prov., 17 	ch., 	27-28 	ver. 	But 	I 	say 	unto 	you,
that 	every 	idle 	word 	that 	men 	shall 	speak, 	they 	shall 	render
an 	account 	for 	it 	in 	the 	day 	of 	judgment. 	Matt., 	12 	ch., 	36 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	73
SECTION 	23,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FORTY-SECOND, 	FORTY-THIRD, 	FORTY-FOURTH
AND 	FORTY-FIFTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION
Whenever 	we 	feel 	disposed 	to 	indulge 	in 	a 	free 	conver
sation, 	it 	behoves 	us 	to 	gratify 	our 	inclination 	in 	this 	respect
only 	among 	friends 	; 	and 	the 	object 	of 	our 	discourse 	should
ever 	be 	to 	point 	to 	salutary 	truths, 	and 	to 	enforce 	useful 	doc
trines. 	In 	all 	such 	free 	intercourse 	with 	our 	friends 	we
should 	never 	lose 	sight 	of 	the 	light 	of 	reason, 	the 	Polar 	Star
of 	all 	our 	thoughts 	; 	while, 	to 	improve 	the 	understanding 	and
to 	lead 	the 	judgment 	of 	our 	hearers, 	should 	be 	the 	never-
failing 	aim 	of 	all 	our 	conversation. 	It 	is 	the 	part 	of 	prudence
to 	observe 	a 	strict 	silence 	in 	the 	presence 	of 	strangers.
A 	low 	tittering 	strain 	of 	conversation 	should 	ever 	be
avoided 	; 	and 	loud 	laughter 	ought 	never 	to 	be 	indulged 	in.
We 	should 	always 	guard 	against 	oaths 	and 	unnecessary
appeals 	to 	Heaven 	: 	they 	should 	never 	pass 	from 	our 	lips,
except 	when 	Truth, 	Justice, 	and 	Right 	demand 	them.
We 	should 	always, 	if 	possible, 	avoid 	contact 	with 	the 	low
and 	vulgar 	herd 	: 	and 	whenever 	we 	chance 	to 	fall 	amongst
them, 	it 	becomes 	imperative 	upon 	us 	to 	call 	to 	our 	side 	the
safeguards 	of 	prudence 	and 	of 	wisdom, 	lest 	we 	become 	cor
rupted 	by 	the 	dangerous 	proximity. 	For 	how 	often 	are 	the
purest 	hearts 	and 	most 	spotless 	minds, 	in 	the 	absence 	of 	the

74 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
salutary 	counsels 	of 	Prudence, 	stained 	and 	sullied 	by 	acci
dental 	contact 	with 	the 	low 	and 	vicious 	; 	and, 	how 	often 	are
the 	most 	refined 	and 	polished 	manners, 	the 	most 	exquisite
taste, 	and 	thoughts 	the 	most 	beautifully 	chaste 	and 	elegant,
defiled, 	corrupted, 	and 	destroyed 	by 	low, 	untutored, 	and 	vicious
association.
A 	foul 	touch 	will 	leave 	a 	stain 	upon 	the 	purest 	surface.
XLII.
(a) 	Yet 	if 	thy 	mind 	incline 	to 	converse 	free 	;
To 	point 	to 	useful 	truths 	thy 	aim 	then be 	;
Use 	valid 	proofs 	by 	Reason 	s 	will 	decreed,
The 	understanding 	of 	thy 	friends 	to lead.
Mong 	friends 	alone 	thy 	converse 	should 	abonnd,
But, 	silent 	be 	while 	strangers 	stand 	around.
XLIII, 	XLIV.
(6) 	Indulge 	not 	in 	a 	low, 	mean, 	tittering strain 	;
And 	from 	loud 	laughter 	learn 	thee 	to 	refrain.
(a) 	Let thy 	thoughts 	be 	upon 	the 	precepts 	of 	God, 	and 	medi
tate 	continually 	on 	His 	commandments 	: 	and 	He 	will 	give 	thee
a 	heart 	and 	the 	desire 	of 	wisdom 	shall 	be 	given 	thee. 	Ecclesi-
asticus, 	6 	ch., 	37 	ver.
(5) 	The 	tongue 	of 	the 	wise 	adorneth 	knowledge 	; 	but 	the
mouth 	of 	fools 	bubbleth 	out 	folly. 	A 	peaceable 	tongue 	is 	a
tree 	of 	life: 	but 	that 	which 	is 	immoderate, 	shall 	crush 	the
spirit, 	Prov., 	15 	ch. ? 	2-4 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	75
(a) 	Forbear 	all 	oaths, 	those 	dread 	appeals 	to 	Heaven,
Nor 	let 	the 	solemn 	plight 	be 	lightly 	given 	;
The 	awful 	sounds 	ne 	er 	from 	thy 	lips 	should 	steal,
Save 	when 	Truth, 	Justice, 	Eight 	demand 	th 	appeal.
XLV.
Far 	from 	thy 	board 	be 	all 	the 	vulgar 	train,
Lest 	their 	foul 	contact 	all 	thy 	morals 	stain.
But, 	should 	st 	thou 	be, 	perchance, 	amongst 	them 	thrown,
(&) 	Be 	then 	thy 	Prudence 	and 	thy 	Wisdom 	shown.
A 	want 	of 	Prudence 	oftentimes 	betrays
Pure, 	spotless 	minds 	to 	low-bred, 	vicious 	ways 	:
(c) 	And 	who 	does 	not 	from 	vile 	associates 	flee,
In 	speech 	and 	manners 	must 	corrupted 	be 	;
It 	matters 	not 	how 	chastely 	fair 	the 	mind,
The 	contact 	foul 	must 	leave 	a 	stain 	behind.
() 	Let 	not 	thy 	mouth 	be 	accustomed 	to 	indiscreet 	speech 	:
for 	therein 	is 	the 	word 	of 	sin. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	23 	ch., 	17 	ver.
Thou 	shalt 	not 	take 	the 	name 	of 	the 	Lord 	thy 	God 	in 	vain 	: 	for
the 	Lord 	will 	not 	hold 	him 	guiltless 	that 	shalt 	take 	the 	name
of the 	Lord 	his 	God 	in 	vain, 	Exod., 	20 	ch., 	7 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam.
Matt., 	6 	ch., 	33 	ver., 	et 	al. 	loc.
(6) 	Lege 	Prov. 	passim.
(c) 	All 	flesh 	shall 	consort 	with 	the 	like 	to 	itself, 	and 	every
man 	shall 	associate 	himself 	to 	his 	; 	like. 	If 	the 	wolf 	shall 	at
any 	time 	have 	fellowship 	with 	the 	lamb, 	so 	the 	sinner 	with
the 	just. 	What 	fellowship 	hath 	a 	holy 	man 	with 	a 	dog?
Ecclesiasticus, 	13 	ch., 	20-22 	ver. 	Bear 	not 	the 	yoke 	with
unbelievers. 	For 	what 	participation 	hath 	justice 	with 	injustice 	?
Or 	what 	fellowship 	hath 	light 	with 	darkness 	? 	2 	Cor., 	6 	ch.,
H 	ver.

76 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EFICTETUS.
SECTION 	24,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FORTY-SIXTH 	AND 	FORTY-SEVENTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
In 	all 	the 	concerns 	of 	our 	temporal 	existence 	a 	due 	regard
should 	be 	had 	to 	the 	necessities 	of 	the 	mind. 	To 	spread 	tran
quillity 	over 	the 	mental 	feelings 	should 	be 	the 	object 	of 	every
human 	exertion 	; 	and 	in 	providing 	those 	things 	which 	are
essential 	to 	the 	safety 	and 	comfort 	of 	the 	body, 	such 	as 	food,
shelter, 	and 	clothing, 	the 	sufficiency 	indicated 	by 	the 	mind
should 	bound 	the 	extent 	of 	our 	corporal 	necessities. 	In 	all
our 	walks 	thro 	life 	we 	should 	never 	depart 	from 	the 	rules 	of
Temperance 	; 	the 	mind 	demands 	this 	; 	and 	it 	is 	the 	firmest
support 	of 	the 	body. 	We 	should 	forsake 	the 	ways 	of 	Luxury,
and 	suppress 	within 	our 	bosoms 	all 	turbulent 	aspirations 	after
Fame.
We 	should 	be 	ever 	cautious 	to 	keep 	down 	the 	lustful 	propen
sities 	of 	the 	flesh, 	and 	always 	vigilant 	in 	guarding 	the 	purity
of 	the 	mind. 	Truly, 	it 	requires 	our 	greatest 	efforts, 	and 	it
should 	be 	our 	never-ceasing 	care, 	to 	keep 	the 	soul 	free 	from
impurities 	; 	to 	oppose 	and 	counteract 	the 	lustful 	desires 	of 	the
body 	; 	and 	to 	[move 	forward 	pure 	and 	unsullied 	in 	the 	paths
of 	Moral 	Law. 	And 	while 	we 	thus 	keep 	ourselves 	free 	from
the 	contaminations 	of 	the 	flesh, 	and 	the 	indulgence 	of 	inordi
nate 	desires, 	we 	ought 	to 	regard 	with 	an 	eye 	of 	compassion 	the
vices 	of 	our 	fellow-men, 	and 	not 	comment 	with 	undue 	severity
on 	their 	frailties.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	77
XLVI.
Those 	things 	which 	are 	for 	corporal 	health 	design 	d
Use 	them 	with 	due 	relation 	to 	the 	mind.
(a) 	Our 	various 	comforts 	houses, 	clothing, 	food,
Should 	measured 	be 	with 	views 	to 	mental 	good 	:
In 	all 	we 	use 	be 	Temperance 	still 	our 	aim 	;
The 	mind 	requires 	it, 	Reason 	s 	counsels 	claim.
Heed 	then 	; 	nor 	Lux 	ry 	s 	sickly 	train 	approve 	;
(&) 	And 	love of 	fame 	far 	from 	thy 	breast 	remove.
XLVII.
(c) 	From 	am 	rous joys 	tis 	just 	thou 	should 	st 	refrain,
Pure 	be 	thy 	conscience, 	free 	from 	guilty 	stain 	;
Let 	not 	the 	soul 	in 	Lust 	s 	foul 	path 	be 	led 	;
Confine 	love 	s 	pleasures 	to 	the 	marriage 	bed 	;
(a) 	Use 	as 	a 	frugal 	man 	the things 	that 	are 	set 	before 	thee 	:
lest 	if 	thou 	eatest 	much 	thou 	be 	hated. 	How 	sufficient 	is 	a
little 	wine 	for 	a 	man 	well-taught, 	and 	in 	sleeping 	thou 	shalt
not be 	uneasy 	with 	it, 	and 	thou 	shalt 	feel 	no 	pain. 	Watching,
and 	choler, 	and 	gripes 	are 	with 	an 	intemperate 	man 	: 	sound
and wholesome 	sleep 	with 	a 	moderate 	man 	: 	lie 	shall 	sleep 	till
morning, 	and 	his 	soul 	shall 	be 	delighted 	with 	him. 	Ecclesias-
ticus, 	31 	ch., 	19, 	22, 	23, 	24 	ver.
Lege 	etiam, 	Prov., 	21-23 	ch.
(Z&amp;gt;)
And 	all 	their 	works 	they 	do 	for 	to 	be 	seen 	of 	men. 	For
they 	make 	their 	phylacteries 	broad 	and 	enlarge 	their 	fringes.
And 	they 	love 	the 	first 	places 	at 	feasts, 	and 	the 	first 	chairs 	in
the 	synagogues, 	and 	salutations 	in 	the market-place, 	and 	to 	be
called 	by 	men, 	Rabbi. 	But 	be 	not 	you 	called 	Rabbi, 	&c. 	Matt.,
23 	ch., 	5-8 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam, 	Mark, 	12 	ch., 	Luke, 	11 	and 	12 	ch.
(6-) 	Lege 	Prov., 	5, 	6, 	7 	ch., 	Matt., 	19 	ch., 	Mark, 	10 	ch., 	et 	al.
loc. 	sac. 	scrip.

f8 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS,
Nor 	from 	the 	line 	of 	pure 	enjoyment 	stray 	;
But 	foul 	desires 	drive 	from 	thy 	breast 	away.
() 	Yet 	be 	not 	prompt 	to 	censure 	those 	who 	err,
And 	wander 	from 	the 	moral 	goal 	afar 	;
Unkind 	remarks 	on 	their 	career 	forego,
Nor 	prone 	be 	thou 	thy 	fairer 	deeds 	to 	show.
Do 	not 	betray 	seventy 	undue,
Nor 	thine 	own 	acts 	display 	to 	public 	view 	:
From 	thy 	whole 	soul 	th 	ignoble 	part 	disclaim 	;
Be 	purity 	and 	moral 	law 	thine 	aim.
O) 	He 	that 	is 	without 	sin 	among- 	you, 	let 	him 	first 	cast 	a
stone 	at 	her.
Then 	Jesus 	lifting 	up 	himself, 	said 	to 	her 	: 	Woman, 	where
are 	they 	that 	accused 	thee? 	Hath 	no 	man 	condemned 	thee?
Who 	said 	: 	No 	man, 	Lord. 	And 	Jesus 	said 	: 	Neither 	will 	I 	con
demn 	thee. 	Gk&amp;gt;, 	and 	now 	sin 	no 	more. 	St. 	John, 	8 	eh., 	7, 	10
ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	79
SECTION 	25,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FORTY-EIGHTH 	AND 	FORTY-NINTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
Should 	any 	man 	censure 	your 	acts, 	and 	hold 	them 	up 	as
unjustifiable 	and 	unworthy 	; 	take 	care 	that 	your 	internal 	tran
quillity 	be 	not 	thereby 	disturbed 	; 	and 	enter 	not 	into 	an 	expo
sition 	of 	your 	motives 	; 	remain 	calm 	and 	unmoved 	; 	and 	hold
ing 	converse 	with 	your 	own 	mind, 	deduce 	from 	the 	apparent
evil 	some 	real 	and 	substantial 	comfort, 	from 	the 	soothing
reflection 	that 	your 	other 	faults, 	and 	perhaps 	real 	defects,
were 	concealed 	from 	the 	view 	of 	this vile 	and 	malicious 	censor.
For, 	had 	he 	known 	these, his 	vicious 	temper 	would 	have 	gladly
seized 	the 	opportunity 	of 	holding 	them 	forth, 	in 	like 	manner,
and 	exhibiting 	them 	before 	the 	world. 	Be 	happy, 	therefore,
that 	you 	have 	so 	far 	escaped 	his 	censorious 	eye, 	and 	malicious
tongue.
You 	should 	avoid 	appearing 	too 	often 	at 	theatrical 	exhibitions 	;
but, 	when 	you 	chance 	to 	be 	present 	at 	any 	one 	of 	these, 	take
heed 	that 	you 	suffer 	not 	your 	mind 	and 	feelings 	to 	become
engaged 	in, 	and 	carried 	away 	with, 	the 	mimic 	scene 	: 	be 	pleased
with 	what 	is 	represented 	before 	you, 	but, 	take 	not 	an 	interest
in 	the 	piece, 	nor 	express 	approbation 	of 	it 	by 	external 	gestic
ulations, 	and 	loudly 	ringing 	plaudits. 	And 	when 	you 	return
from 	these 	scenic 	trifles, 	do 	not 	again 	renew 	them by 	expa
tiating 	upon 	their 	merits 	or 	demerits 	: 	think 	of 	them 	no 	more,

80 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
for 	they 	are 	but 	vain 	and 	useless 	baubles 	that 	give 	a 	passing
pleasure 	to 	the 	mind, 	but 	leave 	no 	substantial 	or 	real 	good
behind 	them.
XLVIII.
(a) 	Hath 	some 	ungenerous 	man 	thine 	acts 	malign 	d 	?
Ah, 	let 	not 	that 	disturb 	thy 	tranquil 	mind 	:
Nor 	let 	vile 	censure 	rouse 	thee 	to 	explain
Thy 	motives 	; 	still 	unmoved 	and 	calm 	remain 	;
But 	thus 	commune 	with 	thine 	own 	soul 	within,
And 	soothing 	ease 	from 	seeming 	evil 	win 	:
&quot;
My 	other 	faults 	to 	him 	must 	be 	unknown,
Else 	he 	would 	not 	have 	published 	these 	alone,
Since 	having 	thus 	display 	d 	his 	malice 	here
From 	greater 	censure 	he 	would 	not 	forbear 	;
More 	had 	he 	known, 	twere 	given 	to 	the 	light,
Thrice 	happy 	then 	to 	scape 	his 	noxious 	sight.&quot;
XLIX.
(&) 	Let 	not 	the 	tragic 	muse 	too 	oft invite
Thy 	footsteps 	pass 	not 	each 	succeeding 	night
O) 	The 	learning- 	of 	a 	man 	is 	known 	by 	patience 	: 	and 	his
glory 	is 	to 	pass 	over 	wrongs. 	Prov., 	19 	ch., 	11 	ver. 	Let 	all
bitterness 	and 	anger, 	and 	indignation 	and 	clamour, 	and 	blas
phemy 	be 	put 	away 	from 	you, 	with 	all 	malice. 	And 	be 	ye 	kind
to 	one 	another, 	merciful, 	forgiving 	one 	another, 	even 	as 	God
hath 	forgiven 	you 	in 	Christ. 	Ephes., 	4 	ch., 	31, 	32 	ver. 	Lege
etiam, 	Rom., 	12 	ch., 	et 	1 	Pet., 	2 	ch.
() 	Lege 	Ecclesiastes, 	1, 	2, 	3, 	4, 	6 	ch,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	81
In 	viewing 	intent 	the 	vain 	dramatic 	show.
Yet, 	thither 	if 	at 	intervals 	them 	go,
Take 	heed 	thou 	dost 	not 	too 	much 	zeal 	display 	;
Nor 	glide 	thy 	heart 	into 	the 	mimic 	fray.
Be 	simply 	pleased, 	whatever 	may 	arise 	;
Let 	not 	thy 	plaudits 	rend 	the 	echoing 	skies 	;
Nor 	speak 	of 	this 	as 	faulty, 	that as 	true,
Thus 	bringing 	forth 	the 	worthless 	scenes 	to 	view,
And 	shewing 	thereby 	a 	weak, 	unseemly 	zeal
For 	scenic 	trifles, 	faithless 	and 	unreal 	;
Which 	for 	a 	moment 	please 	the 	yielding 	mind,
But 	leave 	no 	vestige 	of 	real 	good 	behind,

82 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETU&
SECTION 	26,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FIFTIETH 	AND 	FIFTY-FIRST 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	behoves 	us 	to 	be 	always 	cautious 	in 	the 	selection 	of 	our
associates: 	for 	there 	are 	some 	persons 	whose 	company 	we-
should 	be 	ever 	careful 	to 	avoid, 	and 	whom 	we 	should 	never
cease 	to 	regard 	with 	a 	jealous 	eye. 	But, 	should 	accident lead
us 	into 	the 	society 	of 	even 	such 	persons, 	it 	would 	be 	our 	duty,
as 	prescribed 	by 	the 	dictates 	of 	wisdom, 	to 	demean 	ourselves
with 	a 	modest 	complacency, 	and 	to 	exhibit 	a 	courteous
serenity 	; 	avoiding 	every 	symptom 	of 	dissatisfaction, 	and
suppressing 	every 	feeling 	of 	hostility 	and 	disapprobation.
When 	we 	discourse 	on 	matters 	of 	high 	import 	with 	men
who 	are 	high 	in 	power 	and 	in 	fame, 	we 	should 	be 	careful 	to
adopt 	a 	suitable 	train 	of 	thought 	and 	of 	expression 	; 	our sen
timents 	should 	be 	well 	ordered, 	and 	adapted 	to 	the 	strictest
rules 	of 	reason 	; 	and 	our 	whole 	carriage 	should 	be 	such 	as 	the
wisest 	philosophy 	might 	approve. 	In 	such 	cases, 	our 	obser
vations 	should 	be 	governed 	by 	the 	precepts of 	the best 	phil
osophers 	; 	Socrates 	and 	Zeno, 	the 	wisest 	and 	best 	men 	whom
the 	world 	has 	ever 	seen, 	should 	be 	present 	in 	our 	minds 	; 	and
the 	conduct 	of 	these 	great 	ornaments 	of 	the 	human 	race, 	sup
posing 	them 	placed 	in 	the 	same 	circumstances 	with 	us, 	should
be 	called 	up 	before 	our 	yision, 	and 	be 	the 	object 	of 	our 	imi
tation.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EP1CTETUS. 	83
L.
(a) 	Some 	are 	whose 	presence 	thou 	should 	st 	ever 	fly,
Who 	must 	be 	view 	d with 	keen 	suspicious 	eye 	:
Be 	watchful, 	then 	; 	yet, 	should 	st 	thou 	ever 	stray
Within 	their 	sphere, 	a wise 	resolve 	display
(ft) 	Thy 	bearing 	modest 	; 	placid 	be 	thy 	mien 	;
Thy 	manners 	mild, 	calm, 	gentle, 	and 	serene 	:
Let 	nought 	in 	thee 	uncourteousness 	betray 	;
Nor 	hostile 	feeling 	launch 	in 	open 	day.
LI.
Whene 	er 	thy 	converse 	runs 	on 	themes 	of 	State
With 	men 	from 	power 	and 	high 	renown 	elate,
(c) 	Be 	all 	thy 	soul 	to 	wisdom 	s 	voice 	awake 	;
Attend, 	mark 	well, 	this 	useful 	counsel 	take,
f 	Think 	thou 	what 	Socrates, 	what 	Zeno 	too,
If 	here 	engaged, 	would 	be 	most 	like 	to 	do 	;
(#) 	My 	son, 	if 	sinners 	shall 	entice 	thee, 	consent 	not 	to 	them.
If 	they 	shall 	say 	: 	Come 	with 	us, let 	us 	lie 	in 	wait 	for 	blood,
let 	us 	hide 	snares 	for 	the 	innocent 	without 	cause 	: 	Let 	us
swallow 	him 	up 	alive 	like 	hell, 	and 	whole 	as 	one 	that 	goeth
down 	into 	the 	pit. 	&quot;We 	shall 	find 	all 	precious 	substance. 	We
shall 	fill 	our 	houses 	with 	spoil. 	Cast 	in 	thy 	lot 	with 	us 	; 	let
us 	all 	have 	one 	purse. 	My 	son, 	walk 	not 	thou 	with 	them,
restrain 	thy 	foot 	from 	their 	paths. 	Prov., 	1 	ch., 	10-15 	ver.
(&) 	Blessed 	are 	the 	meek, 	for 	they 	shall 	possess 	the 	land.
Matt., 	5 	ch., 	4 	ver. 	But 	the 	meek 	shall 	inherit 	the 	land, 	and
shall 	delight 	in 	abundance 	of 	peace. 	Psal. 	36, 	11 	ver.
(c) 	Lege 	Prov., 	8 	ch.
See 	note 	M,

84 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Thus 	act 	thyself, 	and 	ever 	bear 	in 	mind
Those 	lights 	transcendant 	of 	the 	human 	kind 	;
So 	shalt 	thou 	shine 	in 	all 	thy 	walks 	with 	men,
And 	Truth 	and 	Honour 	fill 	thy 	breast 	within.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	85
SECTION 	27,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FIFTY-SECOND 	AND 	FIFTY-THIRD 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
In 	approaching 	the 	presence 	of 	great 	men, 	our 	first 	consider
ation 	should 	be, 	how 	far 	we 	were 	likely 	to 	succeed 	in 	the
object 	of 	our 	visit 	: 	and 	we 	should 	prepare 	ourselves 	for
disappointment 	and 	annoyance, 	arising 	from 	various 	circum
stances 	; 	such 	as, 	the 	parties 	whom 	we 	seek 	being 	absent,
or 	engaged 	in 	some 	important 	business, 	or 	not 	in 	a 	mood 	to
see 	us 	; 	the 	insolence 	of 	menials 	; 	the 	violence 	of 	enemies 	; 	the
jealousy 	of 	rivals, 	etc. 	It 	is 	always 	well 	that considerations
like 	these 	should 	occupy 	our 	minds 	on 	such 	occasions 	; 	because,
then, 	our 	hearts 	not 	being 	sanguine 	of 	success, 	would 	be 	in 	a
condition 	to 	receive 	without 	pain 	any 	disappointment, 	annoy
ance, 	or 	vexation 	which 	might 	arise. 	And 	if 	the 	object 	of
our 	desires 	be 	withheld 	from 	us, 	we 	should, 	nevertheless, 	return
to 	our 	homes 	with 	equanimity 	and 	a 	cheerful 	countenance 	;
reflecting 	that 	none 	save 	a 	fool 	will 	allow 	any 	circumstance
of 	disappointment 	or 	miscarriage 	to 	interfere 	with 	the 	peace
of 	his 	mind, 	or 	to 	aSect 	his 	internal 	serenity. 	The 	disciple 	of
wisdom 	will 	not 	allow 	himself 	to 	be 	either 	elevated 	or 	cast
down 	in 	consequence 	of 	any 	change 	which 	external 	things
may 	assume, 	knowing 	that 	his 	equanimity 	depends 	not 	upon
them, and 	that the 	fitful 	positions 	they 	may 	take, 	and 	the 	various
alterations 	they 	may 	undergo, 	cannot 	affect 	his 	happiness.
We 	should 	always 	forbear, 	in 	social 	circles, 	to 	recount 	our
own 	exploits. 	The 	deeds 	which 	we 	performed, 	the 	valour

86 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
which 	we 	exhibited, 	the 	dangers 	which 	we 	encountered 	and
escaped, 	and 	the 	power 	and 	address 	which 	we 	displayed, 	may
be 	subjects 	fraught 	with 	highest 	pleasure 	to 	our 	own 	minds,
but 	they 	are 	dull 	and 	unentertaining, 	heavy and 	insipid, 	dark
and 	cheerless 	to 	all 	others.
LIT.
When 	to 	a 	great 	man 	s 	house 	thou 	dost 	repair,
Reflect 	what 	may 	obstruct 	thy 	footsteps 	there 	:
Thus 	to 	thyself&quot; 	he 	may 	not 	be 	at 	home 	;
Or 	to 	my 	presence 	may 	refuse 	to 	come.&quot;
Perchance, 	on 	some 	domestic 	cares 	intent,
Retired 	he 	sits 	deep 	in 	his 	closet 	pent.
May 	not 	his 	servants, 	bustling 	evermore,
And 	vex 	d, 	slap 	in 	thy 	face 	the 	sounding 	door.
Still, 	knowing 	this, 	thou 	may 	st 	be 	yet 	inclined
To 	visit 	there 	; 	prepared then 	be 	thy 	mind 	;
Whate 	er 	befalls 	thee, 	be 	thou 	still 	content,
Nor 	on 	success 	let 	thy 	whole 	soul 	be 	bent 	;
Return 	not 	grumbling 	at 	thy 	ill 	success,
Nor 	wish 	thy 	disappointment 	had 	been 	less 	:
Tis 	fools 	alone 	who 	take 	disasters 	so,
Who 	ne 	er 	have 	learned 	external 	things 	to 	know 	;
(a) 	Nought 	makes 	the 	wise 	or 	downcast 	or 	elate,
Knowing 	how 	to 	fix 	on 	things 	their 	proper 	rate.
(a) 	Whatsoever 	shall 	befall 	the 	just 	man, 	it 	shall 	not 	make
him 	sad 	: 	but 	the 	wicked 	shall 	be 	filled 	with 	mischief. 	Prov.,
12 	ch., 	21 	ver.

PEE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	87
LIII.
(a) 	Forbear 	in 	social 	circles 	to 	narrate
Thy 	various 	deeds, 	though 	noble, 	brilliant, 	great 	;
The 	dangerous 	part 	thy 	dauntless ^ valour 	bore 	;
Thy 	perils 	past 	; 	recount 	these 	things 	no 	more 	:
Tho 	these 	may 	give 	thy 	raptur 	d 	soul 	delight,
Self-mirrored 	things 	at 	distance 	peering 	bright 	;
Yet, 	others 	ne 	er 	can 	gather 	joy 	from 	these 	;
For 	them 	they 	own 	not 	the 	least 	power 	to 	please.
(a) 	Where 	pride 	is, 	there 	also 	shall 	be 	reproach 	: 	but 	where
humility 	is, 	there 	also 	is 	wisdom. 	Prov., 	11 	ch., 	2 	ver.

88 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	28,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FIFTY-FOURTH, 	FIFTY-FIFTH, 	AND 	FIFTY-SIXTH
CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
To 	indulge 	in 	jokes 	betrays 	a 	low 	and 	vulgar 	mind 	; 	and
those 	who 	addict 	themselves 	to 	this 	rude 	and 	ill-bred 	practice
can 	never 	be 	entitled to 	esteem 	or 	respect.
The 	language 	of 	obscenity 	should 	be 	scouted 	by 	every 	man
who 	regards 	the 	decencies 	and 	proprieties 	of 	social 	life 	; 	and
the 	man 	who 	indulges 	in 	lewd 	and 	licentious 	conversation
ought 	to 	be 	made 	to 	feel 	the 	full 	force 	of 	indignant 	rebuke.
The 	society 	of 	such 	a 	man 	should 	be 	always 	avoided 	; 	while
disapprobation 	of 	his 	filthy 	discourse 	should 	be 	the 	leading
principle 	of 	every 	manly 	breast 	: 	the 	impurity 	dribbling 	from
the 	putrid 	lips 	of 	such 	a 	wretch 	should 	be 	regarded 	with
instantaneous 	abhorrence 	; 	and 	condemnation 	of 	his 	foul
expressions 	should 	appear 	in 	every 	face.
When 	a 	vision 	of 	attractive 	but 	forbidden 	aspect 	presents
itself 	suddenly 	to 	the 	mind, 	and 	the 	heart 	begins 	to 	grow
interested 	in 	the 	flattering 	image 	thus 	evolved 	; 	oh, 	how
necessary 	then 	to 	be 	guarded 	against 	the 	vain 	and 	gaudy
allurement 	; 	how 	proper 	then 	to 	place 	a 	faithful 	sentinel 	upon
every 	avenue 	of 	the 	heart 	; 	to 	summon 	reason 	to 	our 	aid, 	and
to 	hearken 	to 	the 	salutary 	admonitions 	of 	her 	melodious 	voice.
Having 	thus, 	on 	trying 	occasions 	of 	temptation 	like 	this,
given 	a 	respite 	to 	our 	agitated 	feelings 	; 	and 	being 	restored 	to

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	89
comparative 	composure 	and 	ease 	; 	we 	ought 	to 	reflect 	upon
the 	image 	before 	us, 	placing 	it 	in 	various 	points 	of 	view, 	with
the 	design 	of 	adopting 	such 	a 	course 	of 	action 	as 	may 	be 	most
conducive 	to 	our 	happiness.
LIV.
(a) 	Be 	ne 	er 	thy 	aim 	loud 	laughter 	to 	provoke
By 	sending 	round 	the 	never-ceasing 	joke 	;
For 	such 	bespeaks 	a 	man 	ill-bred 	and 	rude,
And 	makes 	thee 	glide 	into 	the 	vulgar 	mood 	;
Thy 	noble 	bearing 	thus 	must 	soon 	decay,
And 	true 	regard 	for 	thee 	be 	swept 	away.
LV.
From 	words 	obscene 	great 	danger 	doth 	arise 	;
For 	converse 	foul 	the 	passions 	flame 	supplies.
Mark, 	then, 	the 	man 	whose 	language 	is 	impure,
Whose 	tongue 	to 	scenes 	licentious 	would 	allure 	;
Check 	thou 	the 	current 	of 	his 	lewd 	discourse,
And 	bid 	him 	feel 	thy 	stern 	rebuke 	s 	full 	force 	;
Or, 	merged 	in 	gloomy 	silence, 	bid 	him 	trace
Disapprobation 	in 	thy 	reddening 	face 	;
Put 	on 	a 	scowl, 	and 	let 	thy 	brow 	display
The 	sour 	regard 	that 	spurns 	the 	wretch 	away.
() 	Hast 	thou 	seen 	a 	man 	hasty 	to 	speak 	? 	folly 	is 	rather 	to
be looked 	for 	than 	his 	amendment. 	Prov., 	29 	ch., 	20 	ver.

90 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
LVI.
(a) 	Should 	visions 	of 	forbidden 	pleasure 	float
Before 	thee, 	and 	thy 	bosom 	fondly 	dote
Upon 	some 	flattering 	image 	; 	then 	beware
Of 	gliding 	softly 	into 	Pleasure 	s 	snare 	:
Keep 	thou a 	faithful 	watch 	upon 	thy 	heart&amp;gt;
And 	to 	thyself 	a 	short 	respite 	impart,
To 	weigh 	the 	matter 	: 	and, 	meantime, 	contrast
The 	various 	feelings 	springing 	in 	thy 	breast 	;
The 	passing 	sweets, 	which 	from 	enjoyment 	springs,
And 	the 	deep 	anguish 	which 	repentance 	brings.
To 	this 	vex 	d 	view 	the 	happy 	state 	oppose
Where 	purest 	bliss 	from 	self -obstruction 	flows,
Where 	Virtue 	doth 	the 	Passions 	force 	subdue 	:
(&) 	What 	transports of 	true 	happiness 	ensue 	!
(c) 	But 	glittering 	looks 	the 	image 	to 	thine 	eye 	;
How 	canst 	thou 	pass 	the 	proffered 	pleasure 	by 	!
Such 	sweet 	attraction 	in 	the 	object 	lies 	!
Ah, 	mark 	the 	false, 	the 	dangerous 	disguise.
(a) 	But 	fornication 	and 	all 	uncleanness 	or 	covetousness, 	let
it 	not 	so 	mucli 	as 	be 	named 	among 	you, 	as 	becometh 	saints 	: 	or
obscenity, 	or 	foolish 	talking-, 	or 	scurrility, 	which 	is 	to 	no 	pur
pose: 	but 	rather 	giving- 	of 	thanks. 	Eph., 	5 	ch., 	4 	ver. 	Lege
etiam, 	Colos., 	3 	ch., 	5-8 	ver.
(5) 	The 	desire 	that 	is 	accomplished, 	delighteth 	the 	soul 	: 	fools
hate 	them 	that 	flee 	from 	evil 	things, 	Prov., 	13 	ch., 	19 	ver.
(c) 	Lege 	Prov., 	7 	ch.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	91
How 	sweet 	the 	applauding 	accents 	conscience 	yields,
How 	pure 	the 	joy 	the 	tranquil 	bosom 	feels,
When 	conquest 	crowns 	the 	efforts 	of 	the 	soul,
(a) 	And 	Passion 	bends 	to 	Virtue 	s 	wise 	control.
() 	Then 	Jesus 	said 	to 	his 	disciples 	: 	If 	any 	man 	will 	come
after 	me, 	let 	him 	deny 	himself, 	and 	take 	up 	his 	cross 	and
follow 	me. 	Matt., 	16 	ch., 	24 	ver.

92 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	29,
CONTAINING 	THE 	FIFTY-SEVENTH, 	FIFTY-EIGHTH. 	AND 	FIFTY-NINTH
CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
Let 	nothing 	dissuade 	you 	from 	that 	which 	is 	right 	; 	and 	be
not 	turned 	aside 	from 	the 	path 	of 	honour 	and 	of 	justice 	by
the 	censures 	or 	derisions 	of 	the 	senseless 	crowd. 	Be 	all 	your
conduct 	regulated 	by 	the 	dictates 	of 	justice 	and 	of 	righteous
ness 	; 	and 	thus 	shall 	your 	pathway 	be 	smoothed 	with 	peace
and 	joy, 	and 	lighted 	by 	the 	radiations 	of 	a 	tranquil 	and
serene 	mind. 	Thus 	shall 	your 	course 	through 	this 	life 	be 	marked
with 	success 	; 	and 	though 	the 	rabble 	s 	envenomed 	sneer 	may
sometimes 	meet 	your 	eye, 	security 	and 	success 	shall 	be 	ever 	in
your 	train, 	and 	shall 	lead 	you 	to 	their 	haven 	of 	safety.
You 	should 	never 	act 	in 	a 	manner 	contrary 	to 	the 	dictates
of 	reason, 	justice, 	and 	proper 	usage 	: 	even 	as 	it 	would 	be
wrong, 	when 	seated 	at 	your 	host 	s 	table, 	to 	help 	yourself 	to
the 	principal 	dishes, 	to 	the 	entire 	neglect 	of 	your 	fellow-
guests 	; 	so, 	under 	all 	the 	other 	circumstances 	of 	life, 	it 	would
be 	equally 	wrong 	to 	consider 	your 	own 	interests 	alone, 	regard
less 	of 	the 	rights, 	the 	claims, 	and 	the 	necessities 	of 	your
fellow-men.
You 	should 	never 	attempt 	to 	soar 	above 	your 	proper 	sphere
of 	action 	; 	nor 	essay 	any 	labour 	which 	may 	be 	manifestly
beside 	your 	strength. 	To 	fulfil 	the 	end 	which 	your 	faculties,
your 	social 	station, 	and 	your 	circumstances 	in 	life 	point 	out

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	93
as 	the 	true 	and 	proper 	one 	assigned 	to 	you 	by 	Providence, 	is
the 	greatest 	glory 	you 	can 	possibly 	achieve 	: 	any 	other 	aim
will 	be 	surely 	attended 	with 	disappointment 	and 	disgrace 	;
while 	the 	very 	end 	of 	your 	being 	shall 	be 	thus 	wholly
obviated 	and 	nullified.
LVII.
(a) 	From 	righteous 	acts 	let 	naught 	thy 	mind 	dissuade 	;
Of 	vulgar 	censures 	be thou 	ne 	er 	afraid 	;
Pursue 	the 	task 	which 	justice 	doth 	decree,
E 	en 	tho 	the 	crowd 	think 	different 	from 	thee 	;
With 	righteous 	works 	alone 	thou 	ehould 	st 	proceed,
When 	truth 	directs, 	thy 	labours 	shall 	succeed.
Such 	be 	thy 	aim, 	dispel 	each 	causeless 	fear
(6) 	And 	vain 	shall 	prove 	the 	rabble 	s 	vicious 	sneer.
LVIII.
Tis 	day 	; 	tis 	night 	; 	thus 	justly 	we 	define,
Time 	s 	changing 	mood, 	and 	draw 	the 	severing 	line 	:
() 	The 	strength 	of 	the 	upright 	is 	the 	way 	of 	the 	Lord 	:
and 	fear 	to 	them 	that 	work 	evil. 	The 	just 	shall 	never 	be
moved 	: 	but 	the 	wicked 	shall 	not 	dwell 	on 	the 	earth. 	Prov.,
10 	ch., 	29, 	30 	ver. 	Blessed 	are 	they 	that 	hunger 	and 	thirst 	after
justice 	; 	for 	they 	shall 	have 	their 	fill. 	Matt., 	5 	ch., 	6 	ver.
(Z&amp;gt;)
Good 	instruction 	shall 	give 	grace 	: 	in 	the 	way 	of 	scorners
is 	a 	deep 	pit. 	Prov., 	13 	ch., 	15 	ver. 	Let 	your 	manners 	be 	with
out 	covetousness, 	contented 	with 	such 	things 	as 	you 	have 	: 	for
he hath 	said 	: 	I 	will 	not 	leave 	thee, 	neither 	will 	I 	forsake 	thee.
So 	that 	we 	may 	confidently 	say 	: 	The 	Lord 	is 	my 	helper 	: 	I
will 	not 	fear 	what 	man 	shall 	do 	to 	me,

94 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTEWS.
But, 	name 	them 	both 	as 	tho 	them 	would 	st 	insist 	;
That 	they 	together 	as 	one 	time 	exist 	;
Do 	this 	; 	twould 	be 	what 	justice 	could 	not 	hear&amp;gt;
Nor 	sense 	approve, 	nor 	rightful 	order 	bear.
And 	thus 	it 	is 	when 	at 	the 	festive 	board,
Where 	various 	meats 	a 	dainty 	treat 	afford,
Should 	thou 	all 	selfish, 	for 	thine 	own 	wants 	feel,
And 	cull 	the 	best 	of 	all 	the 	fragrant 	meal 	;
While 	thou 	art 	filled 	with 	dainties, 	at 	the 	least
A 	wrong 	is 	done 	to 	others 	at 	the 	feast.
So 	when 	to 	banquet 	halls 	thou 	dost 	repair,
Learn 	first 	from 	self-indulgence 	to 	forbear, 	f
If 	thou 	but 	pause 	thou 	canst 	not 	fail 	to 	see
Thy 	host 	has 	other 	guests 	as 	well 	as 	thee 	;
Then 	be 	it 	thine 	due 	deference 	to 	afford
To 	all 	who 	sit 	around 	the 	festive 	board.
LIX.
(a) 	Ne 	er 	strive 	to 	soar 	beyond 	thy proper 	sphere,
And 	learn 	all 	tasks 	beyond 	thy 	strength 	to 	fear 	;
f 	See 	note 	N.
O) 	There 	is 	an 	evil 	that 	I 	have 	seen 	under 	the 	sun, 	as 	it
were by 	an 	error 	proceeding 	from 	the 	face 	of 	the 	prince 	: 	A
fool 	set 	in 	high 	dignity, 	and 	the 	rich 	sitting 	beneath. 	I 	have
seen 	servants 	upon 	horses 	: 	and 	princes 	walking 	on 	the 	ground
as 	servants, 	Ecclesiastes, 	10 	ch., 	5-7 	ver. 	Lege 	etiam, 	1 	Corin,,
12 	ch.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	95
For 	sad 	disgrace 	must 	on 	his 	steps 	attend
Who 	seeks 	not 	to 	fulfil 	his 	lawful 	end.
All 	characters 	assumed 	are 	sure 	to 	fail,
Extraneous 	efforts 	turn 	to 	no 	avail 	;
While 	lawful 	objects 	which 	we 	might 	attain,
Are 	spurned 	away, 	and 	unessayed 	remain.

96 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS,
SECTION 	30,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SIXTIETH, 	SIXTY-FIRST, 	AND 	SIXTY-SECOND
CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
In 	every 	department 	of 	life 	we 	should 	keep 	a 	strict 	watch
over 	our 	spiritual 	interests, 	even 	as 	we 	would 	do 	with 	respect
to 	our 	temporal 	concerns. 	Whatever 	we 	meditate, 	whatever
we 	design, 	whatever 	we 	set 	about 	to 	accomplish 	; 	we 	should
always 	keep 	a 	watchful 	eye 	on 	the 	nature, 	circumstances,
connections, 	and 	attributes 	of 	the 	thing 	thus 	designed 	and
undertaken, 	in 	order 	that 	our 	movements 	may 	not 	be 	attended
with 	fear 	or 	danger, 	and 	that 	the 	peace 	and 	harmony 	of 	our
souls 	be 	not 	broken 	or 	disturbed.
We 	should 	never 	be 	extravagant 	in 	our 	desires 	: 	even 	as
the 	shoe 	is 	limited 	to 	the 	size 	of 	the 	foot, 	so 	should 	our
desires 	be 	circumscribed 	by 	the 	extent 	of 	our 	wants.
If 	our 	wishes 	once 	exceed 	our 	existing 	necessities, 	the 	mind
loses 	its 	balance, 	and 	becomes 	wrapt 	in 	uncertainty 	and 	con
fusion 	; 	our 	desires 	grow 	apace, 	and 	become 	boundless 	in 	their
aim 	; 	and 	peace 	and 	happiness 	depart 	from 	our 	breasts 	for
ever.
Young 	females, 	instead of 	adorning 	their 	faces 	in 	order 	to
attract 	the 	admiration 	of 	men, 	should 	cultivate 	the 	virtues
of 	prudence, 	discretion, 	and 	modesty 	; 	for, 	by 	these 	qualities
alone 	they 	may 	be 	valued 	and 	respected, 	and 	not 	by 	the 	vanity
of 	dress 	or 	the 	worse 	than 	idle 	indulgence 	of 	budding 	passion.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	97
The 	exercise 	of the 	virtues 	above 	named 	cannot 	fail 	to 	secure
the 	general 	and 	lasting 	esteem 	of 	the 	good 	and 	wise, 	while
fantastic 	dress 	and 	sensual 	coquetry 	can 	alone 	attract 	the
gaze 	of 	the 	insipid 	coxcomb, 	or 	senseless 	buffoon.
LX.
When 	going 	abroad, 	thou 	ever 	dost 	take 	care
That 	accidents 	may 	not 	thy 	feet 	impair 	;
In 	this, 	to 	guard 	thy 	steps, 	thou 	dost 	not 	fail,
Still 	watchful 	of the 	clump 	and 	rusty 	nail,
Or 	lest 	some 	hole, 	or 	stone 	with 	rising 	point
Might 	wrench 	thy 	foot 	and 	twist 	it 	from 	the 	joint 	:
Thus 	ever 	thou 	this 	wise 	precaution 	take 	;
Thus 	to 	the 	interests 	of thy 	soul 	awake 	;
(a) 	This 	is 	thy 	better 	part 	; 	and 	be 	thy 	care
To 	keep 	it 	safe 	from 	each 	surrounding 	snare.
Whate 	er 	the 	task 	to 	which 	thou 	dost 	apply,
Cast 	round 	thee 	still 	an 	ever- watchful 	eye 	:
So 	shalt 	thou 	live 	from 	fear 	and 	danger 	free,
And 	in 	each 	task 	success 	shall 	wait 	on 	thee.
LXI.
As 	the 	foot 	s 	size 	is 	measured 	for 	the 	shoe,
To 	give 	it 	shape 	and 	each 	proportion 	due 	;
O) 	And 	fear 	ye 	not 	them 	that 	kill 	the 	body, 	and 	are 	not
able 	to 	kill 	the 	soul 	: 	but 	rather 	fear 	him 	that 	can 	destroy
both 	soul 	and 	body 	into 	hell, 	Matt., 	10 	eh., 	28 	yer, 	Yide 	etiam,
Luke, 	12 	ch., 	&amp;lt;i
ver.
a

98 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS,
(a) 	So 	should 	our 	love 	of 	gain 	be 	justly 	bound
By 	the 	real 	wants 	that 	compass 	us 	around.
If 	thou 	this 	rule as 	thy 	best 	guide 	pursue,
Peace 	to 	thy 	breast 	and 	comfort 	shall 	ensue 	;
But 	should 	thou 	go 	beyond 	this 	proper 	gauge,
(&) 	Swift 	grow 	thy 	wishes 	swells 	thy 	headlong 	rage
Desires 	then 	spring 	apace, 	and 	wants 	arise,
Increasing 	ever 	to 	thy 	longing 	eyes.
Well, 	(keeping 	still 	the 	simile 	in 	view)
Do 	thy 	desires 	extend 	beyond 	the 	shoe 	?
And 	do 	thy 	thoughts 	from 	the 	fix 	d 	limit 	fly,
What 	s 	merely 	useful 	passing 	heedless 	by 	?
Then 	gold-laced 	sandals 	swell 	upon 	thy 	thought,
Or 	bound 	with 	purple, 	or 	with 	diamonds 	wrought.
Still 	swells 	the 	wish, 	still 	soars 	each 	thought 	within,
Till 	no 	fix 	d 	bound 	thy 	wants 	can 	limit 	in.
LXII.
f Lo 	! 	the 	young 	miss, 	now 	at 	her 	fourteenth 	year,
Is 	woo 	d 	by 	men 	and 	call 	d 	a 	&quot;pretty 	dear&quot; 	:
(a) 	And 	lie 	said 	to 	them 	: 	Take 	heed 	and 	beware 	of 	all
covetousness 	: 	for 	a 	man 	s 	life 	doth 	not 	consist 	in 	the 	abun
dance 	of 	things 	which 	he 	possesseth. 	Luke, 	12 	ch., 	15 	ver. 	Gold
is 	a 	stumbling-block 	to 	them 	that 	sacrifice 	to 	it 	: 	wo 	to 	them
that 	eagerly 	follow 	after 	it, 	and 	every 	fool 	shall 	perish 	by 	it.
Ecclesiasticus, 	31 	ch., 	7 	ver.
(&) 	The 	evils 	of 	covetousness 	and 	a 	lust 	of 	wordly 	possession
are 	pointed 	out 	in 	divers 	parts 	of 	the 	Scriptures,
fSee 	note 	O,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	99
Her 	sole 	desire 	is 	to 	appear 	with 	grace,
Her 	constant 	study 	to 	adorn 	her 	face 	;
Even 	nuptial 	pleasures 	swell 	without 	control,
And 	rush, 	and 	glow 	within 	her 	yielding 	soul.
Ah, 	let 	her 	pause, 	and 	learn 	this 	truth 	to 	know,
All 	female 	worth 	from 	Virtue 	s 	font 	must 	flow 	;
Discretion, 	Prudence, 	Modesty, 	alone,
Can 	stamp 	the 	price 	which 	Virtue 	s 	sons 	will 	own
None 	without 	these 	may 	true 	regard 	sustain 	;
And 	miss 	puts 	on 	her 	flaunting 	robes 	in 	vain.

100 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	31,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SIXTY-THIRD, 	SIXTY-FOURTH 	AND 	SIXTY-FIFTH
CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is 	a 	sure 	proof 	of 	natural 	weakness 	to 	waste 	much 	time
in 	those 	concerns 	which 	belong 	to 	the 	body 	; 	such 	as 	eating
and 	drinking, 	perambulatory 	amusements, 	sensual 	indulgence,
etc. 	Our 	chief 	attention 	should 	be 	directed 	to 	the 	improve
ment 	of 	the 	mind.
When 	the 	tongue 	of 	censure 	is 	employed 	against 	us, 	it 	be
comes 	our 	duty 	to 	exercise 	the 	virtue 	of 	forbearance 	; 	always
remembering 	that 	he 	who 	speaks 	falsely 	of 	us, 	injures 	him
self 	and 	not 	us 	; 	and 	he 	who 	assumes 	a 	falsehood 	for 	truth
cannot 	thereby 	injure 	the 	truth, 	he 	who 	was 	deceived 	can
alone 	be 	injured. 	Influenced 	by 	these 	considerations, 	we
ought 	always 	to 	act 	with 	a 	degree 	of 	forbearance 	and 	mild
ness 	towards 	our 	reviler 	; 	and, 	attributing 	his 	censures 	to 	mis
conception 	of 	the 	truth, 	we 	ought 	to 	blame 	not 	himself 	but
his 	notions 	of 	things.
All 	terrestrial 	things 	possess 	(metaphorically 	speaking)
two 	handles, 	one 	of 	which 	affords 	pleasure, 	the 	other 	pain, 	to
the 	touch. 	To 	receive 	an 	injury 	from 	our 	brother 	is 	painful 	;
to 	endure 	it 	partially 	because 	he 	is 	our 	brother, 	is 	pleasant,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	101
LXIII.
(a) 	To 	waste 	our 	cares 	on 	worldly 	toys 	how 	vain,
Replete 	with 	grief, 	and 	redolent 	of 	pain 	!
From 	blind 	illusion 	springs 	corporeal 	care 	;
Tis 	mental 	weakness 	points 	man 	s 	footsteps 	there.
How 	wrong 	that 	time, 	for 	nobler 	objects 	made,
Should 	serve 	for 	arts 	in 	Folly 	s 	garb 	array 	d 	;
That 	man 	should 	thus 	the 	precious 	hours 	afford
To 	sensual 	joys 	and 	pleasures 	of 	the 	board 	;
Give 	golden 	hours 	to 	Pleasure 	s 	band 	insane
Games, 	routs, 	debauch, 	a 	soul-destroying 	train.
Corporeal 	joys 	of 	which 	the 	wise 	ne 	er 	boast,
Should 	only 	be 	subsidiary 	at 	most.
(6) 	Our 	first, 	our 	last, 	our 	greatest 	care 	should 	be
To 	train 	the 	soul 	from 	Folly 	s 	ways 	to 	flee 	;
And 	all 	our 	efforts 	to 	one 	end 	combin 	d
To 	tend, 	improve, 	enrich, 	enlarge 	the 	mind.
(#) 	Therefore 	I 	say 	to 	you, 	be 	not 	solicitous 	for 	your 	life,
what 	you 	shall 	eat, 	nor 	for 	your 	body, 	what 	you 	shall 	put 	on.
Is 	not 	the 	life 	more 	than 	the 	meat, 	and 	the 	body 	more 	than 	the
raiment. 	Matt., 	6 	ch., 	25 	ver. 	Lege 	etiani, 	Luke, 	12 	ch., 	Philip,
4 	ch., 	et 	al. 	loc.
(&) 	To 	attend 	to 	the 	eternal 	interests 	of 	the 	soul 	is 	not 	only
inculcated 	throughout 	the 	whole 	of 	the 	Sacred 	Writing 	s, 	but 	is
even 	their 	whole 	end 	and 	aim.

102 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
LXIV.
(a) 	When 	Slander 	s 	poison 	d 	tongue 	assails 	thy 	name-
(Oh 	Slander, 	prone 	to 	injure 	honest 	fame 	!)
When 	envious 	man, 	by 	grovelling 	passion 	rack 	d,
Brings 	wrong 	to 	thee 	in 	language 	or 	in 	act 	;
Remember 	then, 	(nor 	tremble 	for 	the 	right,)
He 	speaks, 	he 	acts as 	seems 	to 	him 	aright 	:
His 	is 	the 	fault, 	not 	thine, 	if 	truth 	appears
Resounding 	falsehood 	in 	his 	faithless 	ears 	;
And 	failing 	thus 	Truth 	s 	spotless 	form 	to 	see,
He 	wrongs 	himself 	instead 	of 	wronging 	thee 	:
While 	that 	proud 	form, 	however 	misconceived
Unhurt 	remains 	by 	him 	who 	was 	deceived.
Encouraged 	thus, 	be 	all 	thy 	bearing 	mild,
Thy 	converse 	bland, 	tho 	e 	er 	so 	much 	revil 	d 	;
Truth-shadowing 	errors 	Wisdom 	s 	votary 	rues.
Blame 	not 	the 	man, 	but 	his 	mistaken 	views.
LXV.
From 	every 	object, 	mark! 	two 	handles 	rise;
Man 	gladly 	touches 	one, 	from 	one 	he 	flies.
To 	every 	thing 	this 	double 	stem 	belongs.
Who 	does 	not 	tremble 	at 	a brother 	s 	wrongs 	?
() 	For 	this 	is 	thanks-worthy, 	if 	for 	conscience 	towards 	God,
a 	man 	endure 	sorrows, 	suffering- 	wrongfully. 	For 	what 	glory
is 	it, 	if 	committing 	sin 	and 	being 	buffeted 	for 	it 	you 	endure 	?
But 	if 	doing 	well 	you 	suffer 	patiently 	; 	this 	is 	thanks-worthy
before 	God. 	I 	Pet., 	2 	ch., 	19, 	20 	ver. 	Lege 	etiam, 	Matt., 	5 	ch.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	103
feut 	who, 	remembering 	Nature 	s 	kindred 	flow,
Feels 	not 	his 	heart 	with 	Nature 	s 	impulse 	glow 	?
(a} 	Forgives 	not 	wrongs 	upon 	his 	pathway 	thrown,
Reflecting 	these 	had 	from 	a 	brother 	flown 	?
O) 	Be 	not 	overcome 	by 	evil 	; 	but 	overcome 	evil 	by 	good,
Rom., 	12 	ch., 	21 	ver.

104 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	32,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SIXTY-SIXTH, 	SIXTY-SEVENTH, 	AND 	SIXTY-EIGHTH
CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
He 	who 	says 	that 	he 	is 	better 	than 	his 	fellow-man, 	merely
because 	he 	is 	richer 	or 	more 	eloquent, 	gives 	expression 	to
two 	dissonant 	ideas. 	Between 	Wealth 	and 	Worth, 	Eloquence
and 	Merit 	there 	exists 	no 	necessary 	accord. 	Worth 	is 	not
wealth, 	nor 	is 	it 	eloquence.
Our 	expressions 	should 	square 	exactly 	with 	the 	ideas 	which
are 	intended 	to 	be 	conveyed. 	Thus, 	it 	would 	be 	wrong 	to 	say
of 	a 	man 	who 	was 	quicldy 	washed, 	that 	he 	was 	badly 	washed 	:
or, 	of 	a 	man 	who 	drank 	a 	good 	deal 	of 	wine, 	that 	he 	drank
excessively. 	Throughout 	all 	the 	various 	circumstances 	of 	life,
we 	should 	be 	precise 	in 	the 	use 	of 	expressions 	: 	and 	before
coming 	to 	any 	conclusion 	as 	to 	what 	is 	or 	what 	is 	not 	the
fact, 	we 	ought 	to 	receive 	the 	rational 	opinions 	of 	other 	men,
and 	approve 	them 	in 	our 	own 	minds.
We 	should 	never 	assume 	the 	name 	and 	character 	of 	wise
men 	; 	nor 	speak 	to 	plain, 	uninstructed 	people 	about 	rules 	and
precepts 	of 	philosophy 	: 	for 	instance, 	when 	at 	a 	feast, 	we
should 	not 	talk 	as 	to 	how 	it 	behoveth 	people 	to 	eat 	and 	drink 	;
enough 	t that 	we 	do 	as 	it 	seems 	best 	to 	ourselves 	in 	these
matters. 	The 	celebrated 	Grecian 	philosopher, 	Socrates, 	was
remarkable 	for 	his 	modesty 	and 	unpretending 	deportment

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OP 	EPICTETUS. 	105
in 	this 	respect. 	He 	always 	condemned 	even 	the 	slightest
appearance 	of 	display. 	On 	one 	occasion, 	when 	some 	persons
came 	to 	him 	for 	the 	purpose 	of 	placing 	themselves 	in 	the
rank 	of 	philosophers 	under 	him, 	he 	refused 	complying 	with
their 	desire, 	and 	sent 	them 	away, 	alleging 	that 	he 	was 	not
qualified 	to 	instruct 	them. 	So 	great 	was 	his 	modesty^.
LXVI.
(a) 	From 	words 	like 	these 	what 	concord 	can 	arise 	?
Being 	richer, 	then 	I 	m 	better 	and 	more 	wise
Than 	is 	my 	fellow-man 	; 	and 	better 	still,
Because 	my 	words 	swell 	tuneful 	at 	my 	will.
Ah, 	thoughts 	inapt 	; 	my 	wealth 	apace 	may 	grow,
And 	words 	symphonious 	from 	my 	lips 	may 	flow 	;
But 	eloquence 	and 	worth 	are 	not 	the 	same 	;
Nor 	wealth 	and 	worth 	pass 	for 	a 	mutual 	name.
Tho 	power 	of 	words 	or 	riches 	store 	be 	mine,
Still 	greater 	worth 	and 	virtue 	may 	be 	thine.
While 	mundane 	gifts 	may 	shine 	in 	mortal 	eyes,
Tis 	innate 	worth 	that 	lifts 	us 	to 	the 	skies.
LXVTT.
In 	use 	of 	words 	we 	must 	due 	care 	observe,
Nor 	let 	one 	term 	for 	another 	serve 	:
This 	quickly 	laves 	his 	limbs 	; 	apt 	adjunct 	try 	:
Quick 	is 	the 	term, 	not 	lad 	thou 	must 	apply,
(a) 	A 	good 	name 	is 	better 	than 	great 	riches 	: 	and 	good 	favour
is 	above 	silver 	and 	gold. 	Prov., 	22 	ch., 	1 	ver. 	Vide 	Prov., 	et
Eccles. 	passim.

106 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTEWS.
Tho 	quick 	the 	act, 	an 	inference 	from 	hence
That 	quick 	is 	bad, 	reproaches 	common 	sense.
Lo 	! 	this 	drinks 	freely 	of 	the 	vintage 	juice,
Yet, 	may 	not 	be 	excessive 	in 	its 	use.
Much 	and 	excessive 	various 	ideas 	claim,
Two 	words 	distinct, 	and 	meaning 	not 	the 	same.
Unweigh 	d 	remarks, 	ah, 	be 	it 	thine 	to 	shun,
Nor 	lightly 	into 	vague 	conclusions 	run 	;
To 	Reason 	s 	voice 	attentive 	turn 	the 	ear,
Her 	righteous 	words 	and 	calm 	deductions 	hear 	;
Ah, 	let 	her 	words 	of 	grace 	thy 	thoughts 	control,
And 	all 	her 	accents 	harbour 	in 	thy 	soul.
LXVIII.
() 	Boast 	not 	thy 	wisdom 	; 	make 	no 	vain 	displaj^s
To 	win 	esteem, 	or 	gain 	untutor 	d 	praise 	;
Be 	mild 	of 	speech, 	with 	caution 	e 	er 	refrain
From 	precepts 	of 	Philosophy 	s 	domain 	:
Shew 	not 	at 	festive 	boards 	(a 	cheerless 	treat)
The 	rules 	by 	which 	tis 	wise 	to 	drink, 	to 	eat 	:
Be 	thine 	own 	feasting 	to 	these 	rules 	confin 	d,
Else 	let 	thy 	precepts 	slumber 	in 	thy 	mind.
(#) 	A 	cautious 	man 	concealeth. 	knowledge 	: 	and 	the 	heart 	of
fools 	publisheth 	folly. 	Prov., 	12 	ch., 	23 	ver. 	The 	lips 	of 	the 	un
wise 	will 	be 	telling foolish 	things 	: 	but 	the 	words 	of 	the 	wise
shall 	be 	weighed 	in 	a 	balance. 	The 	heart 	of 	fools 	is 	in 	their
mouth 	: 	and 	the 	mouth 	of 	wise 	men 	is 	in 	their 	heart. 	Ecclesi-
asticus, 	21 	ch., 	28, 	29 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	107
(a) 	Let 	modest 	mien 	illume 	thy 	learning 	s 	page 	:
Ah, 	mark 	this 	virtue 	in 	th 	Athenian 	sage 	;
Who 	sent 	these 	men 	away 	(for 	so 	tis 	sung)
Who 	came 	to 	gather 	wisdom 	from 	his 	tongue.
f 	His 	humble 	gait, 	his 	modest 	self-control,
Bespoke 	the 	virtue 	reigning 	in 	his 	soul.
() 	The 	wisdom 	of 	the 	humble 	shall 	exalt 	his 	head, 	and
shall 	make 	him 	sit 	in 	the 	midst 	of 	great 	men. 	Ecclesiasticus,
11 	ch., 	1 	ver.
f 	Note 	P.

108 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	33,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SIXTY-NINTH 	AND 	SEVENTIETH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
When 	we 	happen 	to 	be 	present 	at 	the 	conversations 	of 	men,
we 	should not 	offer 	any 	opinions 	upon 	the 	subject 	under 	dis
cussion 	; 	our 	study 	should 	be 	to 	observe 	strict 	silence. 	It 	is
always 	unsafe 	to 	express 	opinions 	upon 	any 	subject 	with
out 	previous 	and 	mature 	consideration. 	And 	should 	we 	on
account 	of 	such 	silence, 	be 	deemed 	ignorant, 	and 	thereupon 	be
openly 	insulted, 	our 	patient 	endurance 	and 	disregard 	of 	the
insult 	thus 	offered 	would 	be 	the 	best 	evidence 	of 	our 	triumph.
In 	our 	works 	must 	be 	seen 	the 	soundness 	and 	wisdom 	of 	our
principles.
We 	should 	never 	make 	a 	public 	display 	of 	our 	virtues.
Whether 	we 	bound 	our 	desires 	by 	our 	corporeal 	necessities 	;
whether 	we 	labour 	and 	toil 	; 	or 	whether 	we 	impose 	upon 	our
selves 	the 	practice 	of 	self-denial 	: 	no 	matter 	what 	course 	of
action, 	dictated 	by 	wisdom 	and 	virtue, 	we 	may 	deem 	it 	proper
to 	pursue, 	we 	should 	always 	proceed 	from 	a 	sense 	of 	the 	jus
tice 	and 	propriety 	of 	such 	a 	mode 	of 	action 	; 	and 	not 	with 	a
view 	of 	holding 	ourselves 	forth 	to 	public 	admiration.
LXIX.
(a) 	When 	grovelling 	minds 	discourse 	some 	topic 	o 	er,
Speak 	loud 	their 	views, 	and 	urge 	them 	more 	and 	more 	;
(a) 	He 	that 	keepeth 	his 	mouth 	and 	his 	tongue, 	keepeth 	his
soul 	from 	distress. 	Prov., 	21 	ch,, 	23 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	109
Be 	silent 	them 	; 	let 	not 	thy 	tongue 	engage
To 	pour 	out 	thoughts 	upon 	the 	theme 	they 	wage 	:
Unweigh 	d 	opinions 	in 	the 	mind 	may 	rise 	;
Express 	them 	not, 	for 	there 	the 	danger 	lies.
And 	should 	they 	say 	thou 	hast 	a 	clouded 	brain,
(a) 	That 	dullness 	caus 	d thy 	taciturn 	vein 	;
Be 	calm, 	unmoved, 	nor 	at 	this 	taunt 	repine,
And 	Wisdom 	shall 	pronounce 	the 	triumph 	thine.
When 	bleating 	herds, 	by 	careful 	shepherds 	led,
At 	eve 	forsake 	the 	plains 	on 	which 	they 	fed 	;
Their 	milk-distended 	teats 	and 	fleecy 	store
Shew 	how 	they 	brows 	d 	: 	so 	tis 	with 	human 	lore 	;
The 	mind 	s 	slow 	process 	we 	but 	search 	in 	vain,
How 	the 	small 	parts 	commingle 	on 	the 	brain 	;
When, 	how, 	arranged, 	and 	planned, 	the 	ideal 	throng 	;
What 	springs 	are 	worked 	to 	make 	them 	move 	along 	:
Tis 	from 	external 	signs 	alone 	we 	win
A 	knowledge 	of 	the 	work 	that 	glows 	within.
Weigh 	while 	sheep 	browse, 	their 	food 	; 	ah, 	twould 	defy
The 	keenest 	glance 	of 	searching 	pastoral 	eye.
(6) 	Well-cultured 	minds, 	like 	herds 	of 	pastoral 	care,
Are 	known 	alone 	by 	the 	rich 	fruits 	they 	bear.
(tf) 	The 	just 	shall 	never 	be 	moved 	; 	but 	the 	wicked 	shall 	not
dwell 	on 	the 	earth. 	Prov., 	10 	ch., 	30 	ver.
(&) 	A 	good 	tree 	cannot 	bring 	forth 	evil 	fruit, 	neither 	can 	an
evil 	tree 	bring 	forth 	good 	fruit. 	Every 	tree 	that 	bringeth 	not
forth 	good 	fruit, 	shall 	be 	cut 	down, 	and 	shall 	be 	cast 	into 	the
fire. 	Wherefore 	by 	their 	fruits 	you 	shall 	know 	them, 	Matt.,
7 	ph,, 	18-20 	ver,

110 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Hence 	seek 	not 	thou 	with 	learning 	s 	pomp 	to 	blaze
In 	mood 	attractive 	to 	the 	plebeian 	s 	gaze 	;
But 	let 	the 	wealth 	wherewith 	thy 	mind 	s 	inlaid
In 	goodly 	works 	of 	Wisdom 	be 	displayed.
LXX.
If 	frugal 	care 	thy 	mode 	of 	life 	inspire,
And 	corporal 	need 	should 	limit 	each 	desire 	;
Let no 	vain 	phantoms 	on 	thy 	vision 	roll 	;
(a) 	Boast 	not 	the 	plan 	with 	swelling 	pride 	of 	soul.
Thy 	beverage 	may 	be 	water 	from 	the 	spring,
But 	wish 	not 	this 	in 	wondering 	ears 	should 	ring,
f 	In 	Labour 	s 	empire 	range 	thy 	feelings 	free 	?
Ask 	not 	that 	gazing 	crowds 	thy 	toil 	should 	see 	;
Let 	no 	vain 	passion 	rule 	within 	thy 	breast 	;
Let 	not 	the 	public 	statues 	be 	caressed.
Dispel 	vain-glorious, 	base, 	ignoble 	cares,
The 	low 	ambition 	bred 	in 	public 	squares.
If 	self-denial 	be 	thy 	plan 	of 	life,
Be 	not 	thy 	words 	with 	self-laudation 	rife,
To 	thy 	parch 	d 	lips 	the 	cooling 	draught 	refuse,
But 	blaze 	it 	not 	abroad 	as 	public 	news.
O) 	And 	all 	their 	works 	they 	do 	for 	to 	be 	seen 	of 	men, 	&c,
Matt., 	23 	ch., 	50 	ver,
f 	See 	note 	2,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	Ill
SECTION 	34,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SEVENTY-FIRST 	AND 	SEVENTY-SECOND 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
The 	fool 	looks 	abroad 	for 	happiness 	; 	but, 	the 	wise 	man
seeks 	it 	at 	home. 	The 	former 	reposes 	all 	his 	trust 	in 	external
things 	; 	while 	the 	latter 	has 	no 	hope 	but 	in 	himself.
Mark 	the 	character 	of 	a wise 	man 	: 	he 	is 	never 	ready 	to
offer 	praise or 	blame 	; 	he 	does 	not 	exhibit 	himself 	as 	a 	being
superior 	to 	his 	fellows 	: 	if 	praise 	be 	bestowed 	upon 	him, 	he
laughs 	secretly 	at 	his 	panegyrist, 	and 	he 	never 	defends 	himself
against 	the 	censures 	of 	those 	who 	revile 	him. 	He 	moves 	on
thro 	life 	with 	the 	utmost 	caution, 	guarding 	himself 	from
those 	ills 	which 	lie 	in 	his 	path, 	and 	which 	it 	is 	in 	his 	power
to 	avoid, 	but 	never 	concerning 	himself 	with 	any 	of 	those
things, 	whether 	good 	or 	evil, 	which 	it 	is 	not 	within 	his 	pro
vince 	either 	to 	have 	or 	to 	avoid. 	He 	restrains 	all 	his 	desires,
and 	imposes 	upon 	himself 	the 	strictest 	self-denial, 	repressing
his 	excitement 	with 	regard 	to 	all 	things, 	and 	viewing 	all 	the
events 	of 	life 	with 	a 	calm 	indifference. 	In 	short, 	he 	looks
upon 	himself 	as 	his 	greatest 	enemy, 	and 	most 	perfidious
traitor.
LXXI.
(a) 	How 	great 	the 	space 	that 	parts 	the 	sage 	and 	fool,
The 	Sphere 	of 	Folly 	and 	fair 	Wisdom 	s 	school 	!
(a) 	Vide 	Prov. 	passim.

112 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
A 	moment 	pause 	their 	characters 	to 	rate,
And 	mark 	their 	nature, 	and 	opposing 	state 	:
The 	one 	(behold 	thou 	Folly 	s 	ways 	in 	this)
In 	extern 	aid 	reposes 	all 	her 	bliss,
And, 	senseless 	! 	deems 	the 	happiness 	or 	woe
That 	waits 	her 	here, 	from 	other 	hands 	must 	flow 	;
While 	Wisdom 	sees, 	with 	bright 	translucent 	eye,
Man 	s 	joys 	or 	griefs 	in 	his 	own 	bosom 	lie 	;
Nor 	wakes 	a 	smile, 	nor 	flows 	a 	burning 	tear,
Evok 	d 	by 	power 	of 	things 	beyond 	her 	sphere.
LXXII.
(a) 	Who 	walks 	in 	Wisdom 	s 	salutary 	ways,
Of 	sapient 	worth 	unerring 	proofs 	displays 	;
His 	course 	unchang 	d, 	his 	manners 	e 	er 	the 	same 	;
His 	lips 	refuse 	to 	utter 	praise 	or 	blame 	;
He 	censures 	none 	; 	on 	none 	bestows 	applause 	;
Nor 	to 	himself 	admiring 	wonder 	draws 	;
He 	lifts 	him 	not 	above 	his 	fellow-man 	;
Unblamed, 	unblaming, 	follows 	Nature 	s 	plan.
He 	spurns 	alike 	the 	praises 	men 	bestow,
And 	gall 	s 	black 	streams 	from 	envious 	hearts 	that 	flow.
O) 	But 	the 	fruit 	of 	the 	spirit, 	charity, 	joy, 	peace, 	patience,
benignity, 	goodness, 	longanimity, 	mildness, 	faith, 	modesty
continency, 	chastity 	: 	against 	such 	there 	is 	no 	law. 	And 	they,
that 	are 	Christ 	s 	have 	crucified 	their 	flesh, 	with 	the 	vices 	and,
concupiscences. 	If 	we 	live 	in 	the 	spirit, 	let 	us 	also 	walk 	in 	the
spirit. 	Let 	us 	not 	be 	made 	desirous 	of 	vain-glory, 	provoking
one 	another, 	envying 	one 	another, 	Gal. ?
5 	ch. ? 	22-2G 	ver

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	113
As 	cautious 	men 	a 	circling 	route 	will 	seek,
Whose 	tottering 	limbs, 	from 	late 	contusion 	weak,
With 	pain 	may 	move 	; 	they 	pause 	the 	steps 	between ,
And 	turn 	aside 	from 	bars 	that 	intervene 	;
They 	view 	the 	ground 	along 	the 	left 	and 	right,
And 	stay 	each 	movement 	in 	the 	will 	s 	despite.
TW 	Joy 	s 	bright 	train 	are 	blazing 	in 	the 	view,
And 	shifting 	scenes 	of 	pleasure 	ever 	new,
Invite 	the 	headlong 	pace 	to 	urge 	along,
They 	move 	slow 	still, 	nor 	heed 	the 	siren 	s 	song.
With 	devious 	route 	they 	keep 	the 	safest 	line,
Till 	the 	lux 	d 	joints in 	healthy 	state 	combine,
(a) 	Thus 	Wisdom 	s 	son 	the 	voice 	of 	censure 	views 	;
Guards 	every 	step, 	and 	all 	his 	strength 	renews 	;
On 	Life 	s 	rude 	path 	meets 	each 	opposing 	trial
(6) 	With 	mild 	submission bas d 	on 	self-denial 	;
Checks 	every 	wish, 	restrains 	each 	fond 	desire,
And 	glows 	and 	burns 	with 	Wisdom 	s 	sacred 	fire,
(c) 	He 	spurns 	those 	things, 	as 	foreign 	to 	him 	here,
Which 	stand 	beyond 	the 	limits 	of 	his 	sphere.
(a) 	Where 	pride 	is 	there 	also 	shall 	be 	reproach 	: 	but 	where
humility 	is, 	there 	also 	is 	wisdom. 	The 	simplicity 	of 	the 	just
shall 	guide 	them: 	and 	the 	deceitfulness 	of 	the 	wicked 	shall
destroy 	them. 	Prov., 	11 	ch., 	2, 	3 	ver.
(ft) 	Then 	Jesus 	said 	to 	his 	disciples 	: 	If 	any 	man 	will 	come
after 	me, 	let 	him 	deny 	himself, 	and 	take 	up 	his 	cross, 	and 	fol
low 	me. 	Matt., 	16 	ch., 	24 	ver.
(c) 	Strive 	not 	in 	a 	matter 	which 	doth 	not 	concern 	thee, 	and
sit 	not 	in 	judgment 	with 	sinners. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	11 	ch., 	9 	ver,
H

114 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Call 	him 	uncouth, 	untrained 	in 	Learning 	s 	school,
A 	moping 	idiot, 	or 	a 	drivelling 	fool 	;
He 	heeds 	you 	not 	; 	deep-fix 	d 	within 	his 	soul,
And 	true 	to 	virtue, 	reigns 	his 	self-control.
j- 	Himself, 	in 	fine, 	he 	views 	with 	keenest 	eye 	;
(a) 	In 	self 	he 	doth 	the 	chiefest 	knave 	descry 	;
Here 	is 	the 	traitor, 	and 	the 	knave 	accurst 	;
A 	foe, 	the 	darkest, 	fiercest, 	d 	eadliest, 	worst.
(#) 	The 	just 	is 	first 	accuser 	of 	himself 	: 	his 	friend 	cometh;
and 	shall 	search 	him. 	Prov., 	18 	ch., 	17 	ver.
But 	I 	chastise 	my 	body, 	and 	bring 	it 	into 	subjection 	: 	lest
perhaps, 	when 	I 	have 	preached 	to 	others, 	I 	myself 	should
become 	a 	castaway. 	1 	Corin., 	9 	ch., 	27 	ver.
f 	See 	note B.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPWTETUS. 	1 	1 	5
SECTION 	35,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SEVENTY-THIRD 	AND 	SEVENTY-FOURTH 	CHAPTERS,
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	is 	idle 	for 	men 	to 	boast 	of 	their 	knowledge 	and 	learning 	.
since, 	whatever 	may 	be 	the 	extent 	of 	the 	one, 	or 	the 	depth 	of
the 	other, 	they 	can 	acquire 	no 	advantage 	therefrom, 	unless
they 	understand 	and 	practice 	the 	precepts 	of 	wisdom. 	What
doth 	it 	avail 	a 	man, 	to 	say 	that 	he 	can 	interpret 	and 	explain
the 	writings 	of 	Divines 	and 	Philosophers, 	if, 	at 	the 	same 	time,
the 	practices 	of 	his 	life 	be 	opposed 	to 	the 	doctrines 	which
they 	promulgate, 	and 	the 	duties 	they 	enjoin 	? 	To 	become
acquainted 	with 	the 	virtues 	in 	practice, 	is 	the 	first 	duty 	of
men 	; 	to 	shew 	them 	in 	fact 	is 	their 	greatest 	and 	highest
honour.
We 	should 	abide 	in 	the 	precepts 	of 	wisdom 	which 	we 	have
received 	; 	observing 	them 	as 	sacred 	laws, 	and 	cherishing 	them
with 	a pure 	and 	religious 	devotion.
LXXIII.
Lo 	! 	this 	weak 	man, 	with 	vanity 	elate,
Applauds 	himself, 	and 	deems 	his 	learning 	great 	;
(a) 	Vaunts 	his 	deep 	knowledge, 	and 	extols 	his 	wit,
Since 	he 	can 	read 	the 	works 	Chrysippus 	writ 	;
O) 	Because 	that, 	when 	they 	knew 	God, 	they 	have 	not 	glori
fied 	him 	as 	God, 	or 	given 	thanks 	: 	but 	became 	vain 	in 	their
thoughts, 	and 	their 	foolish 	heart 	was 	darkened. 	For 	profess
ing 	themselves 	to 	be wise 	they 	became 	fools. 	Rom., 	1 	ch., 	21,
22 	ver.

116 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Expound 	the 	meaning 	of 	each 	page 	he 	reads 	:
Ah, 	he 	in 	use 	of 	words 	alone 	succeeds.
Had 	dark 	Chrysippus 	penned 	a 	simpler 	strain,
And 	his 	stern 	page 	displayed 	a 	clearer 	vein 	;
What 	then, 	vain 	man 	! 	of 	thy 	insensate 	boast 	?
Thou 	mere 	expositor 	of 	words 	at 	most.
Ah, 	whither 	bends 	my 	soul 	in 	life 	s 	short 	span?
(a) 	To 	learn 	fair 	Nature, 	and 	abide 	her 	plan 	:
For 	this 	I 	sigh, 	tis 	all 	I 	wish 	to 	know,
Since 	this 	alone 	can 	serve us 	here 	below.
I 	seek 	her 	then 	; 	and 	only 	turn 	aside,
To 	ask 	some 	safe, 	some 	truth-instructed 	guide
To 	point 	the 	way. 	Lo 	! 	comes 	the 	learned sage 	:
But, 	ah, 	too 	dark 	for 	me 	his 	lettered 	page.
Some 	word-versed 	man 	must 	now 	his 	aid 	afford 	;
Expound 	each 	page, 	and 	con 	o 	er 	every 	word 	:
Unfold 	the 	riches 	of 	the 	Truth 	divine 	}
That 	lie 	concealed 	beneath 	the 	abstruse 	line 	; 	&amp;gt;
So 	far 	no 	praise 	of 	learning 	can 	be 	mine. 	)
But, 	when 	from 	use 	I 	once 	have 	learned 	to 	trace
Thro 	all 	the 	work 	Truth 	s 	lineaments 	of 	grace,
(a) 	What 	needeth 	a 	man 	to 	seek 	things 	that 	are 	above 	him,
whereas 	he 	knoweth 	not 	what 	is 	profitable 	for 	him 	in 	his 	life,
in 	all 	the 	days 	of 	his 	pilgrimage, 	and 	the 	time 	that 	passeth
like 	a 	shadow 	? 	Or 	who 	can 	tell 	him 	what 	shall 	be 	after 	him
under 	the 	sun 	? 	Ecclesiasticus, 	7 	ch., 	1 	ver. 	For 	we 	brought
nothing 	into 	this 	world 	: 	and 	certainly 	we 	can 	carry 	nothing
out. 	I 	Tim., 	6 	ch., 	7 	ver. 	Vide 	etiaxn 	Job, 	1 	ch., 	21 	ver., 	et
Ecclesiasticus, 	5 	ch., 	14 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EFICTETUS, 	117
Some 	Merit 	s 	mine 	; 	but, ah, 	to 	boast 	were 	vain 	;
A 	mere 	grammarian 	still 	I 	must 	remain.
E 	en 	in 	that 	sphere 	my 	light 	but 	feebly 	shines 	;
Nor 	can 	it 	reach 	the 	depth 	of 	Homer 	s 	lines.
Ungained 	is 	still 	the 	sanctuary 	divine,
And 	breathing 	raptures 	of 	the 	sacred 	shrine.
And 	mark 	again, 	what 	blushing 	shame 	is 	mine,
When, 	as 	I 	read 	the 	Truth-entwining 	line,
While 	I 	unfold 	the 	lofty 	strains 	with 	ease,
(a) 	My 	life 	flows 	not 	in 	consonance 	with 	these.
LXXIV.
Those 	precepts 	which 	to 	thee 	are 	offered 	here,
With 	care 	observe, 	and 	reverential 	fear 	:
Tis 	Nature 	s 	voice 	impels 	thee 	to 	her 	cause,
And 	bids 	thee 	hold 	by 	Wisdom 	s 	sacred 	laws.
And 	tho 	the 	voice 	of 	Envy 	should 	defame
Thy 	peaceful 	life, 	and 	reprobate 	thy 	name 	;
Whence 	comes 	the 	sound 	bend 	not 	a 	flashing 	eye,
(6) 	But 	rapt 	to 	Wisdom, 	pass 	unheeding 	by.
(a) 	And 	this I 	pray, 	that 	your 	charity 	may 	more 	and 	more
abound 	in 	knowledge 	and 	in 	all 	understanding 	: 	that 	you 	may
approve 	the 	better 	things, 	that 	you 	may 	be 	sincere 	and 	with
out 	offence 	unto 	the 	day 	of 	Christ, 	filled 	with 	the 	fruit 	of 	jus
tice 	through 	Jesus 	Christ, 	unto 	the 	glory 	and 	praise 	of 	God.
Philip., 	1 	ch., 	9-11 	ver.
Wherefore 	thou 	art 	inexcusable, 	man, 	whosoever 	thou 	art
that 	judgest. 	For 	wherein 	thou 	judgest 	another, 	thou 	con-
demnest 	thyself. 	For 	thou 	dost 	the 	same 	things 	which 	thou
judgest. 	Rom., 	2 	ch., 	1 	ver.
(i) 	Vide 	Prov. 	passim. 	,

118 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
SECTION 	36,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SEVENTY-FIFTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
It 	fs 	high 	time 	that 	we 	apply 	ourselves 	to 	the 	practice
of 	those 	lessons 	and 	rules 	of 	wisdom 	which 	have 	been 	laid
down 	for 	our 	instruction 	and 	improvement. 	We 	should 	not
defer 	for 	one 	moment 	the 	enjoyment 	of 	that 	perfection, 	and
of 	the 	accompanying 	blessings 	which 	the 	practice 	of 	the
precepts 	of 	wisdom 	produces. 	We 	cannot 	be 	wise 	too 	soon 	:
and 	having 	already 	had 	the 	acquaintance 	and 	knowledge 	of
those 	omnipotent 	truths 	which 	the 	Spirit 	of 	Reason 	and 	Philsophy
hath 	unfolded 	to 	our 	view, 	we 	ought 	not 	to 	procrastinate 	the
improvement 	and 	perfection 	induced 	by 	the 	faithful 	exercise
of 	the 	duties 	involved 	in 	such 	truths. 	Our 	chief 	desire 	should
be 	the 	attainment 	of 	the 	highest 	point 	of 	human 	perfection 	:
and, 	no 	matter 	how 	great 	the 	labour, 	how 	disagreeable 	the
obstructions, 	and 	how 	painful 	the 	struggle, 	we 	should 	still 	press
on, 	until 	we 	arrive 	at 	the 	summit 	of 	improvement. 	Thus 	had
Socrates 	attained 	the 	first 	place 	in 	the 	ranks 	of 	Philosophy 	:
he 	persevered 	in 	his 	course 	in 	despite 	of 	every 	obstacle,
steering 	by 	no 	other 	light 	than 	that 	of 	Reason, 	till, 	arriving
at 	the 	uppermost 	point 	in 	the 	walk 	of 	Wisdom, 	he 	was 	crowned
with 	perfection.
LXXV.
Say. 	why 	defer 	to 	periods 	undefined
The 	work 	that 	strengthens, 	elevates 	the 	rnind 	?

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	119
Ah, 	why 	put 	off 	to 	shadowy 	future 	time
The 	practice 	of 	ennobling 	truths 	sublime 	:
Those 	glorious 	precepts, 	heavenward-moving 	band 	!
To 	which 	advancing 	Wisdom 	waves 	the 	hand.
Long 	are 	those 	truths 	familiar 	to 	thine 	ear 	;
Long 	hast 	thou 	learnt 	how 	safe 	by 	them 	to 	steer 	:
Tis 	folly 	then 	improvement 	s 	work 	to 	stay,
To 	sink the 	mind 	by 	indolent 	delay 	;
To 	wrap 	the 	soul 	in 	deep 	encumbering 	night,
Uncheer 	d, 	unblest 	by 	Wisdom 	s 	genial 	light.
Oh, 	say, 	thou 	dost 	a 	rayless 	path 	pursue
But 	for 	a time 	; 	that 	soon 	upon 	thy 	view
Shall 	burst 	a 	guiding 	light 	; 	and 	then 	the 	soul
Moves 	on 	resplendent 	to 	the 	trophied 	goal 	;
Ah, 	vain, 	one 	instant 	to 	retard 	the 	boon 	;
The 	life-fraught 	breath 	can 	t 	be 	inhaled 	too 	soon.
Nor 	is 	too 	green thy 	youth 	to hail 	the 	rays
That 	genial 	flow 	from 	Wisdom 	s 	solar 	blaze.
Indulge 	not 	then 	this 	indolent 	repose
Thro 	life 	s 	fast-ebbing 	tide, 	till 	life 	s 	sad 	close 	;
Let 	not 	delay 	rule 	each 	succeeding 	hour.
Procrastination 	blasts 	fair 	Virtue 	s 	flower.
Why 	tarry 	still 	with 	ever-changing 	plan,
(a) 	Nor 	make 	thyself 	at 	once 	a 	perfect 	man 	?
(ft) 	The 	mind 	where 	blooms 	not 	Virtue 	s 	plant 	deep-sown
Must 	lie 	concealed, 	unhonoured, 	and 	unknown 	;
() 	Be 	you 	therefore 	perfect, 	as 	also 	your 	heavenly 	Father 	in
perfect. 	Matt., 	5 	ch., 	48 	ver.
( b} 	Vide 	Sac, 	Scrip, 	passim.

120 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS,
Shall, 	living, 	pass 	thro 	one 	unbroken 	night,
Uncheered, 	unblest 	by 	Wisdom 	s 	grateful 	light 	;
And, 	dying, 	sink 	forgotten 	to 	the 	grave,
Unknown 	to 	Virtue, 	Sloth 	s 	unpitied 	slave.
Awake, 	arise, 	and 	urge 	the 	task 	amain 	;
Let 	virtuous 	zeal 	within 	thy 	bosom 	reign 	:
Be 	all 	thy 	aim 	to 	pass 	eachjbarrier thro 	; 	\
And 	gain, 	with 	ardour 	burning 	ever 	new, 	(
The 	highest 	point 	that 	meets 	th 	enraptur 	d 	view 	; 	)
Where 	Wisdom 	crowned 	in 	all 	her 	glory 	shines,
Beyond 	opposing 	toil 	s 	remotest 	lines.
Tis 	now 	the 	field 	in 	desperate 	conflict 	burns 	;
What 	thought 	from 	glorious 	triumph 	backwards 	turns
Shall 	be 	a 	coward, 	since 	Victory 	s 	wreath 	may 	fade
By 	one 	defection 	in 	the 	onset 	made.
Thus 	firm 	had 	stood 	the 	great 	Athenian 	sage,
The 	pattern, 	pride, 	and 	glory 	of 	his 	age 	:
With 	Reason 	s 	light, 	his 	sole 	directing 	star,
He 	gained 	the 	top 	of 	Wisdom 	s 	mount 	afar 	;
The 	goddess 	smiled, 	and 	fondly 	stooping 	low,
Arranged 	her 	fairest 	chaplet 	on 	his 	brow.
True, 	thou 	art 	not a 	Socrates, 	yet, 	still,
With 	thee 	should 	reign 	the 	ever 	urgent 	will
To 	pace 	the 	pathway 	travel 	d 	by 	the 	sage,
Thy 	hope 	in 	youth, 	and 	solace 	in 	old 	age.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	121
SECTION 	37,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SEVENTY-SIXTH 	CHAPTER.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
The 	science 	of 	philosophy 	is 	divided 	into 	three 	parts 	: 	the
utility 	and 	importance 	of 	the 	principles 	established 	; 	the
proofs 	or 	demonstrations 	by 	which 	these 	are 	sustained 	; 	and
the organization 	or 	arrangement 	of 	the 	various 	parts 	which
constitute 	such 	proofs 	and 	demonstrations. 	The 	most 	essen
tial 	part 	of 	this 	division, 	and 	that 	to 	which 	our 	attention
should 	be 	especially 	directed, 	is 	the 	utility 	and 	importance 	of
the 	principles 	; 	because 	it 	is 	on 	the 	knowledge 	and 	practice
of 	these 	our 	present 	and 	future 	felicity 	depends. 	But, 	yet,
what 	perversity 	marks 	our 	career 	! 	We 	devote 	almost 	all
our 	attention 	to 	the 	last-mentioned 	part, 	that 	is, 	the 	technical
arrangement 	of 	the 	constituent 	points 	of 	proofs 	and 	argu
ments 	; 	while 	with 	a 	reckless 	indifference 	we 	pass 	the 	others
by. 	Thus 	it 	happens 	that, 	while 	we 	are 	ever 	ready 	with
technical 	arguments 	to 	prove 	the 	impropriety 	of 	speaking
falsehoods, 	our 	tongues 	never 	cease 	to 	usher 	forth 	misre
presentations 	and 	lies. 	The 	first 	thing 	we 	should 	learn, 	is 	not
to 	lie: 	to 	prove 	that 	it 	behoveth 	us 	not 	to 	lie, 	is 	a 	mere
auxiliary 	branch 	of 	knowledge.
LXXVI.
Three 	leading 	points 	to 	Wisdom 	appertain,
And 	lie 	within 	Philosophy 	s 	domain 	:
The 	first 	and 	best 	of 	these 	for 	us 	to 	know,
Js 	that 	from 	which 	her 	healthful 	precepts 	flow,

122 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS.
Those 	principles 	or 	first-established 	facts,
Which 	rule, 	prescribe, 	and 	govern 	all 	our 	acts.
And 	such 	is 	this 	which 	teaches 	us 	in 	sooth
(a) 	Ne 	er 	from 	the 	lips 	to 	usher 	forth 	untruth.
The 	second 	point 	instructs 	the 	reason 	why
We 	do 	amiss 	whene 	er 	we 	shape 	a 	lie 	:
Proofs, 	demonstrations 	fill 	this 	second 	place,
And 	crown 	each 	principle 	with 	reasoning 	grace.
The 	third 	is 	that 	within 	whose 	circling 	span
Eepose 	the 	parts 	embrac 	d 	in 	Reason 	s 	plan 	;
Which 	tells 	what 	is 	by 	various 	terms 	meant 	;
What 	means 	a 	Series, 	what 	an 	Argument:
By 	this 	the 	meaning 	of 	each 	phrase 	we 	find 	;
How 	these 	words 	Truth, 	and 	Falsehood, 	are 	defin 	d.
Thus, 	when 	in 	search 	of 	Wisdom 	we 	engage,
Our 	labours 	all 	lie 	on 	the 	triple 	stage.
The 	first-named 	point 	our 	greatest 	care 	demands 	;
To 	this 	the 	second 	next 	in 	order 	stands 	;
The 	other 	then. 	Ah, 	senseless 	man 	and 	blind 	! 	\
To 	change 	the 	order 	Reason 	hath 	assigned,
And 	give 	the 	last 	an 	undivided 	mind. 	)
(ja) 	Wherefore 	putting1
away 	lying1
, 	speak 	ye 	tlie 	truth 	every
man 	with 	his 	neighbour 	: 	for 	we 	are 	members 	one 	of 	another.
Ephes., 	4 	ch., 	25 	ver.
These 	then 	are 	the 	things, 	which 	you 	shall 	do 	:
speak 	ye
truth 	every 	one 	to 	his 	neighbour 	: 	judge 	ye 	truth 	and 	judg
ment 	of 	peace 	in 	your 	gates. 	And 	let 	none 	of 	you 	imagine 	evil
in 	your 	hearts 	against 	his 	friend 	: 	and 	love 	not 	a 	false 	oath 	:
for 	all 	these are 	the 	things 	that 	I 	hate, 	saith 	the 	I^ord, 	Zacha*
rias, 	8 	ch,, 	16, 	17 	ver.

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS. 	123
(a) 	Thus, 	while 	we 	pass 	life -breathing 	precepts 	o 	er,
We 	boast 	our 	knowledge 	in 	polemick 	lore 	;
With 	learned 	skill, 	and 	reasoning 	art 	profound,
Prove 	all 	the 	ills 	that 	circle 	falsehood 	round 	:
Yet 	all 	our 	acts, 	in 	reasoning 	powers 	despite,
Shrink 	from 	the 	touch, 	and 	blush 	before 	the 	light 	:
Fly 	Reasons 	s 	path, 	the 	ways 	of 	Truth 	defy
(b) 	And 	point 	at 	life 	as 	one 	emblazoned 	lie.
O) 	Not 	every 	one 	that 	saith 	to 	me, 	Lord, Lord, 	shall 	enter
into 	the 	kingdom 	of 	heaven 	: 	but 	he 	that 	doth 	the 	will 	of 	my
Father 	who 	is 	in 	heaven, 	he 	shall 	enter 	into 	the 	kingdom 	of
heaven. 	Matt., 	7 	ch., 	21 	ver.
For 	not 	the hearers 	of 	the 	law 	are 	just 	before 	God 	: 	but 	the
doers 	of 	the 	law 	shall 	be 	justified. 	Rom., 	2 	ch., 	13 	ver.^
But 	be 	ye 	doers 	of 	the 	word, 	and 	not 	hearers 	only, 	deceiving
your 	own 	selves. 	James, 	1 	ch., 	22 	ver.
(b) 	They 	mock 	the 	doctrines 	which 	their 	pride 	advocates.
Road 	St. 	Paul 	to 	the 	Romans, 	2nd 	chapter.

124 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETUS,
SECTION 	38,
CONTAINING 	THE 	SEVENTY-SEVENTH, 	SEVENTY-EIGHTH, 	AND
SEVENTY-NINTH 	CHAPTERS.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
The 	only 	conclusion 	at 	which 	we 	can 	arrive, 	upon 	a 	due
consideration 	of 	the 	various 	circumstances, 	the 	lights 	and
shadows, 	the 	joys 	and 	hopes, 	the 	pleasures 	and 	woes, 	the
object 	and 	end 	of 	life, 	is 	that 	whatever 	positions 	we 	may 	be
placed 	in, 	and 	whatever 	allotments 	Heaven 	may 	assign 	us, 	are
the 	best 	and 	safest 	for 	us 	; 	wherefore, 	we 	ought 	always
cheerfully 	to 	submit 	to 	its 	decrees. 	He 	who 	yields 	willing
and 	decorous 	obedience 	to 	the 	will 	of 	Providence, 	is 	wise
amongst 	us 	; 	and 	the 	sense 	and 	knowledge 	of 	Divine 	things
exists 	within 	him. 	Even 	as 	Socrates 	had 	felt, 	so 	should 	we
feel 	; 	at 	the 	moment 	he 	was 	condemned 	to 	death 	by 	his 	false
accusers, 	he gave 	utterance 	to 	the 	ever-memorable 	exclama
tion 	:
&quot;
True, 	my 	enemies 	may 	deprive 	me 	of 	life 	; 	but 	it 	is
not within 	their 	power 	to 	injure 	me. 	*
LXXVII.
(a) 	Oh, 	be 	it 	mine 	with 	gladsome 	pace 	to 	stray
Along 	the 	path 	where 	Fate 	shall 	mark 	the 	way.
O) 	Have 	confidence 	in 	the 	Lord 	with 	all 	thy 	heart, 	and 	lean
not 	upon 	thy 	own 	prudence. 	In 	all 	thy 	ways 	think 	on 	him,

THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EPICTETVS. 	125
.Do 	thou, 	Jove 	! 	my 	fearless 	steps 	invite,
When 	gods 	direct, 	who 	shall 	not 	move 	aright 	;
And 	tho 	my 	ardour 	should 	expiring 	be,
Still 	but 	command 	and 	I 	shall 	follow 	thee.
LXXVIII.
Who 	walks 	unmoved 	thro 	life 	s 	e 	er-changing 	state,
And 	cheerful 	yields 	to 	the 	decrees 	of 	Fate,
May 	scorn 	those 	ills 	which 	human 	kind 	betide,
And 	lean 	on 	Wisdom 	smiling 	at 	his 	side 	;
May 	cherish 	here 	peace, 	happiness 	and 	love,
And 	sweet 	regards 	from 	those 	in 	Heaven 	above.
LXXIX.
Thus 	dear 	wert 	thou, 	Sage, 	divinely 	wise 	!
To 	gods 	eternal 	reigning 	in 	the 	skies.
At 	that 	dread 	moment, 	breath- destroying 	hour 	!
When 	thou 	wert 	doomed 	by 	base 	tyrannic 	power,
Within 	thy 	breast 	Heaven 	s 	inspiration 	woke 	;
Thus 	from 	thy 	lips 	the 	godlike accents 	broke,
and 	he 	will 	direct 	thy 	steps. 	Be 	not 	wise 	in 	thy 	own 	conceit 	:
fear 	God, 	and 	depart 	from 	evil. 	Prov., 	3 	ch., 	5-7 	ver.
I 	beseech 	you, 	therefore, 	brethren, 	by 	the 	mercy 	of 	God, 	that
you 	present 	your 	bodies 	a 	living 	sacrifice, 	holy, 	pleasing 	unto
God, 	your 	reasonable 	service. 	And 	be 	not 	conformed 	to 	this
world: 	but 	be 	reformed 	in 	the 	newness 	of 	your 	mind, 	that
you 	may 	prove 	what 	is 	the 	good, 	and 	the 	acceptable, 	and 	the
perfect 	will 	of 	God, 	&c. 	Rom., 	12 	ch., 	1, 	2 	ver.

1 	26 	THE 	ENCHIRIDION 	OF 	EFICTETUS.
* 	Tis 	true, 	these 	men 	may 	deal 	the 	fatal 	blow 	;
That 	strikes 	this 	tottering 	human 	fabric 	low 	;
(a) 	But, 	ah, 	weak 	man, 	the 	spirit 	soars 	away
To 	realms 	that 	shine 	in 	never-ending 	day 	;
The 	heaven-born 	spark 	resumes 	its 	home 	on 	high.
And 	lives 	unfading 	in 	its 	native 	sky 	;
f 	Rapt 	to 	its 	maker, 	mighty 	Jove 	alone,
It 	blazes 	round 	the 	gods 	eternal 	Throne.&quot;
() 	And 	fear 	ye 	not 	them 	that 	kill 	the 	body, 	and 	are 	not
able 	to 	kill 	the 	soul 	: 	but 	rather 	fear 	him 	that 	caji 	destroy 	both
body and 	soul into 	hell. 	Matt., 	10 	ch., 	28 	ver. 	And 	I 	say 	to
you, 	my 	friends 	: 	be not 	afraid 	of 	them 	who 	kill 	the 	body, 	and
after 	that 	have 	no 	more 	that 	they 	can 	do. 	But 	I 	will 	shew
you 	whom 	you 	shall 	fear 	: 	fear 	ye 	him, 	who 	after 	lie 	hath
killed, 	hath 	power 	to 	cast 	into 	hell. 	Yea, 	I 	say 	to 	you, 	fear
him. 	Luke, 	12 	ch., 	4, 	5 	ver.
* 	See 	note 	S.
f 	See 	note 	T.

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
Note 	A, 	page 	18.
Restrain 	desire 	; 	this 	moment 	call 	thine 	own,
He 	meets 	defeat 	who 	takes 	his 	aim 	too 	soon.
The 	words 	of 	the 	text 	are, 	&quot;
rbv 	6 	k&amp;lt;p 	rjfuv^ 	&aov 	bpeyeodai 	/ca/loV
avt 	oiidh 	ovdeTrcocoi 	irapeart&quot; 	Even 	with 	respect 	to 	those 	things
which 	lie 	within 	our 	grasp, 	the 	time 	has 	not 	yet 	arrived
when 	it 	would 	he 	proper 	to 	seize 	them&quot; 	Here, 	although
the 	ideas 	in 	the 	original 	and 	the 	translation 	would 	at 	first
sight 	appear 	to 	be 	distinct, 	yet, 	they 	are 	essentially 	the 	same.
I 	adduce 	the 	expression 	in 	this 	line 	as 	a 	specimen 	of 	the 	man
ner 	in 	which 	I 	have 	dealt 	with 	several 	passages 	throughout
the 	text 	; 	availing 	myself 	of 	every 	opportunity 	to 	give 	a 	poetic
turn 	to 	the 	expressions, 	but 	maintaining, 	at 	the 	same 	time, 	a
strict 	adherence 	to 	the 	sentiments 	contained 	in 	the 	original.
Note 	B, 	page 	20.
To 	Nature 	s 	voice 	unerring 	still 	adhere 	;
Firm 	be 	thy 	mind, 	and 	peaceful 	thy 	career.
d/Ud 	KOI 	rtjv 	e/navrov 	Trpoaipeaiv 	Kara 	Qvoiv 	exuGavTypijaai.&quot; 	But 	it
behoves 	me 	also 	to 	maintain 	the 	firmness 	implanted 	in 	me 	by
nature.&quot; 	The 	great 	leading 	principle 	of 	the 	Stoic 	Philosophy
was 	that 	the 	limits 	of 	our 	natural 	wants 	should 	never 	be 	over
stepped 	; 	and 	that 	nature 	should 	be 	consulted 	in 	all 	things,

128 	NOTES 	TO 	EPIC TETUS.
Indeed, 	such 	was 	the 	severity 	of 	the 	manners 	adopted 	by 	this
sect 	of 	philosophers^ 	and 	so 	closely 	allied 	were 	they 	to 	those 	of
the 	cynics, 	whom 	the 	followers of 	Zeno 	were 	said 	to 	have 	pur
posely 	imitated, 	in 	order 	to 	attract 	admiration, 	that 	they 	were
often 	accused 	of 	pride 	and 	hypocrisy;
Note 	C, 	page 	21.
Death 	has 	no 	sting, 	so 	Socrates 	has 	taught 	;
By 	man 	s 	false 	dogmas 	is 	the 	phantom 	wrought.
As 	frequent 	mention 	is 	made 	of 	the 	philosopher 	Socrates
throughout 	this 	work, 	it 	may 	be 	desirable 	to 	inform 	the 	classical
student, 	as 	well 	as 	the 	general 	reader, 	of 	some 	particulars
relating 	to 	a 	person 	who 	held 	so 	distinguished 	a 	place 	among
the 	wise 	and 	learned 	of 	ancient 	days. 	This 	philosopher 	was
the 	first 	amongst 	the 	pagans 	of 	antiquity 	who 	directed 	his
whole 	attention 	to 	the 	improvement 	of 	mankind, 	by 	teaching
such 	doctrines 	as 	were 	calculated 	to 	ensure 	peace 	and 	harmony
amongst 	men, 	and 	by 	directing 	them 	to 	such 	a 	course 	of 	life 	as
was 	suitable 	to 	the 	promotion 	of 	their 	real 	welfare. 	He 	was
born 	in 	a 	small 	village 	called 	Alopeces, 	near 	Athens, 	and 	was
the 	son 	of 	a 	statuary. 	He 	had 	learned the 	trade 	of 	his 	father,
and 	though 	he 	never 	evinced 	any 	fondness 	for 	it, 	yet 	he 	became
a very 	skilful 	workman. 	The 	love 	of 	knowledge, 	however, 	was
his 	greatest 	passion 	; 	and 	whenever 	he 	had 	earned 	a 	small 	sum
by 	his 	trade, 	he 	devoted 	himself 	ardently 	to 	his 	studies, 	until
it 	was 	expended, 	when 	he 	again 	resumed 	his 	former 	occupa
tion. 	At 	length, 	a 	rich 	citizen 	of 	Athens, 	of 	the 	name 	of 	Creto,
attracted 	by 	the 	abilities, 	studious 	propensity, 	and 	amiable 	dis
position 	of 	Socrates, 	took 	him 	from 	the 	workshop, 	and 	appoint
ed 	him 	tutor 	over 	his 	children. 	Here, 	he 	applied 	himself 	with

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS. 	129
the 	utmost 	zeal 	to 	the 	acquisition 	of 	knowledge. 	Scarcely 	was
there 	a 	science, 	or 	polite 	art, 	with 	which 	he 	did 	not 	make 	him
self 	acquainted, 	placing 	himself 	under 	the 	best 	and 	most 	cele
brated 	masters 	in 	the 	various 	departments 	wherein 	he 	studied.
Having 	acquired 	all 	the 	doctrines of 	the 	best 	philosophers 	of
his 	day, 	he 	applied 	himself 	to 	the 	study 	of 	eloquence, 	of 	poetry,
and 	of 	music, 	and 	became 	one 	of 	the 	most 	accomplished 	as 	well
as 	most 	learned 	men 	of 	his 	age. 	He 	served 	his 	country 	both 	in
a 	military 	and 	civil 	capacity 	; 	but, 	did 	not 	accept 	office 	until
he 	had 	been 	far 	advanced 	in 	life. 	He 	represented 	his 	native
village 	in 	the 	senate 	of 	Five 	Hundred, 	and, 	in 	due 	time, 	became
president 	of 	the 	people. 	The 	school 	of 	philosophy 	founded 	by
Socrates 	was 	called, 	after 	its 	founder 	s 	name, 	the 	Socratic
School, 	being a 	branch 	of 	the 	Ionic 	School 	founded 	by 	Thales.
He 	disapproved 	of 	the 	continual 	and 	endless 	disquisitions 	about
the 	nature 	and 	origin 	of 	things, 	which 	had 	occupied 	the 	whole
attention of 	the 	philosophers 	of 	the 	day, 	while 	the 	actual 	duties
of 	life 	were 	neglected 	; 	and, 	feeling 	that 	it 	would 	be 	more 	con
ducive 	to 	the 	happiness 	of 	mankind 	to 	point 	out 	the 	virtues
which 	might 	be 	cultivated 	with 	advantage, 	and 	the 	vices 	which
ought 	to 	be 	extirpated, 	he, 	at 	once, 	resolved 	upon 	devoting 	his
life 	to 	the 	teaching 	and 	inculcation 	of 	moral 	precepts 	; 	and,
accordingly, 	he 	founded 	his 	school 	of 	moral 	philosophy. 	In 	his
dress 	and 	food 	Socrates 	was 	governed 	by 	the 	requirements 	of
nature 	: 	he 	once 	remarked, 	&quot;
whilst 	others 	live 	to 	eat, 	I 	eat
to 	live.&quot; 	He 	was 	a 	man 	of 	extraordinary 	gentleness, 	and 	suav
ity 	of 	temper, 	and 	was 	scarcely 	ever seen 	angry, 	notwithstand
ing 	the 	domestic 	misery 	to 	which 	he 	was 	subjected 	by 	a 	bad
and 	unruly 	wife. 	Being 	once asked 	how 	he 	could 	live 	with
such 	a 	woman, 	and 	why 	he 	did 	not 	leave 	her, 	he 	said, 	&quot;
I 	have
I

130 	NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
so 	accustomed 	myself 	to 	this 	clatter, 	that 	it 	annoys 	me 	no 	more
than 	the 	water 	carts 	which 	rattle 	along 	the 	streets.&quot; 	He 	was
especially 	distinguished 	in 	his 	day 	for 	the 	superiority 	of 	his
reasoning 	powers; 	by 	the 	exercise 	of 	these 	he 	was 	able 	to
exceed 	in 	everything. 	&amp;lt;;
I 	have 	subdued 	my 	faults,&quot; 	said 	he. 	on
one 	occasion, 	&quot;
by 	reason 	and 	philosophy.&quot; 	In 	consequence 	of
the 	wonderful 	development 	of 	this 	faculty, 	he 	was 	supposed 	by
his 	friends 	to 	be 	always 	accompanied 	by 	a 	Demon 	; 	which 	he
himself 	used 	to 	call 	his 	&quot;
genius,&quot; 	or 	&quot;
spirit 	of 	G-od.&quot;
Socrates 	was condemned 	to 	death 	on 	the 	accusation 	of 	Melitus,
that 	he 	had 	broken 	the 	law 	by 	not 	believing 	in 	the 	Gods 	of 	the
State, 	and 	by 	introducing 	a 	new 	system 	of 	worship 	; 	and 	like
wise 	by 	corrupting 	the 	youth. 	His 	sentence 	was 	executed 	by
administering 	to 	him 	a 	draught 	of 	the 	juice 	of 	hemlock 	; 	which
event 	happened 	in 	his 	sixtieth 	year. 	Such 	was 	the 	end 	of 	the
greatest 	philosopher 	and 	best 	man 	of 	antiquity.
It 	is 	supposed 	that 	Socrates 	believed 	in 	the 	existence 	of 	one
God 	; 	this 	is 	deduced 	from 	his 	own 	sayings 	: 	although 	when
he 	was 	about 	to 	die 	he 	is 	reported 	to 	have 	said 	to 	Crito, 	his 	early
friend 	and 	patron,&quot; 	Crito, 	I 	vowed 	to 	offer 	a 	cock 	to 	^Escu-
lapius 	; 	do 	not 	neglect 	to 	pay 	it.&quot;
Many 	were 	the 	noble 	and 	sublime 	truths 	inculcated 	by
Socrates. 	Plato 	and 	Xenophon, 	two 	of 	his 	most 	eminent 	dis
ciples, 	collected 	most 	of 	his 	sayings 	; 	which 	we 	find 	scattered
through 	the 	works 	of 	the 	ancient 	Greek 	and 	Roman 	writers.
He 	taught 	that 	the 	cultivation 	of 	amiable 	manners 	is 	attended
with 	pleasure 	as 	well 	as 	profit 	; 	that 	virtue 	and 	interest 	are
inseparable. 	&quot;
Itaque 	accepimus, 	Socratem 	exsecrari 	solitum
eos, 	qui 	primum 	haec, 	natura 	cohasrentia,&quot; 	(utilitatem 	honesta-
temque) 	&quot;
opinione 	distraxissent.&quot; 	Cic, 	De 	Off, 	Lib, 	Ter.

MOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS. 	131
He 	also 	taught 	that 	there 	was 	no 	nearer 	road 	to 	glory 	than
to 	try 	to 	be 	as 	good 	as 	we 	would 	wish 	to 	appear. 	&quot;
Quamquam
praeclare 	Socrates, 	hanc 	viam 	ad 	gloriam 	proximam, 	et 	quasi
compendiariam, 	dicebat 	esse, 	si 	quis 	id 	ageret, 	ut, 	qualis 	haberi
vellet, 	talis 	esset.&quot; 	Cic. 	De 	Off. 	Lib. 	Sec.
In 	a 	beautiful 	poem, 	written 	by 	a 	Mr. 	Bushe, 	Fellow 	of 	the
Royal 	Society, 	entitled 	&quot;
Socrates,&quot; 	the 	doctrines 	of 	this 	illus
trious 	heathen 	are 	pleasingly 	set 	forth. 	In 	answer 	to 	the
objection 	of 	his 	friend, 	Aristodemus. 	that 	the 	invisibility 	of 	the
Deity 	was 	a 	proof 	of 	his 	non-existence, 	the 	philosopher 	is 	made
to 	speak 	thus 	elegantly 	:
&quot;
Can 	you. 	Aristodemus, 	see 	the 	soul
Which 	animates 	man 	? 	Is 	not 	the 	spring-
That 	moves 	and 	actuates 	the 	whole 	machine,
Conceal 	d 	from 	view 	1 	and 	yet, 	you 	seem 	to 	act
With 	counsel 	and 	design. 	Thus, 	he 	who 	schem d
This 	world 	immense, 	presides 	and 	rules
By 	secret 	laws 	; 	himself 	invisible
To 	mortal 	ken, 	whom 	yet 	we 	fairly 	trace
In 	his 	material 	works, 	which 	all 	declare
A 	power 	divine. 	Say, 	when 	you 	gaze 	direct,
Full 	on 	the 	sun, 	is 	not 	the 	radiant 	orb
Lost 	in 	the 	blaze 	of 	light 	? 	and 	yet 	the 	sun
Paints 	heaven 	and 	earth 	to 	view. 	When 	thunder 	peals
Thro 	the 	aerial 	vault, 	is 	not 	the 	bolt
Hiui 	d 	on 	unseen, 	tho 	visible 	the 	signs
It 	leaves 	behind 	? 	or, 	when 	fierce 	warning 	winds
Spread 	desolation 	round, 	can 	you 	discern
The 	wings 	with 	which 	they 	fly, 	tho 	nature 	speak
Their 	rapid 	force 	? 	And 	if 	there 	s 	aught 	in 	man

132 	NOTES 	TO 	EPICTEWS,
That 	does 	resemble 	God 	; 	it 	is 	the 	soul
Which 	guides 	all 	parts, 	yet 	cannot 	be 	discern 	d
By 	sharpest 	eye. 	Cease 	then 	to 	doubt 	of 	things
Latent 	from 	sight, 	and 	to 	deny 	a 	God
Because 	you 	cannot 	see 	him 	with 	an 	eye
To 	mortals 	given.&quot;
Note 	D, 	page 	22.
Tis 	not 	th 	extrinsic 	splendour 	of 	thy 	state,
Thy 	superb 	charger 	s 	proud 	majestic 	gait.
Some 	of 	the 	moral 	doctrines 	of 	the 	Stoic 	philosophers 	are
very 	beautiful. 	Zeno, 	the 	founder 	of 	this 	sect, 	taught 	that
honesty 	constituted 	the 	sum 	total 	of 	all 	the 	virtues 	; 	and 	that
to 	practise 	it 	was 	the 	end 	and 	aim 	of 	our 	being. 	Cicero 	thus
alludes 	to 	this 	doctrine of 	the 	Stoics, 	&quot;
Itemque 	si 	ad 	honest-
atem 	nati 	sumus, 	eaque 	aut 	sola 	expetenda 	est 	(ut 	Zenoni
visum 	est) 	aut 	certe 	omni 	pondere 	gravior 	habenda, 	quam
reliqua 	omnia 	;&quot; 	&c.
Note 	E, 	page 	25.
And 	thus 	thro 	life 	the 	doctrine 	holds the 	same,
Thou 	need 	st 	but 	change 	the 	business 	and 	the 	name.
The 	text 	reads 	thus, 	&quot;
OVTU 	nai 	i~v 	r&amp;lt;L
/3/cj, 	eav 	fiid&Tai 	avrl 	(3o?i-
6apiov 	Kal 	KO%fa6iov 	ywaiKapiov 	Kal 	iraidiov 	oi dev 	K.CJ?LVGI.&quot; 	Horace
expresses 	this 	idea 	in 	nearly 	the 	same 	terms 	: 	he 	says, 	&quot;nomine
mutato, 	de 	te 	fabula 	narratur.&quot;
Note 	F, 	page 	27.
If 	woman, 	in 	love 	s 	soft 	allurements 	drest,
Excite 	an 	amorous 	conflict 	in 	thy 	breast.
Here 	are 	we 	recommended 	to 	the 	practice 	of 	the 	most 	sublime
Christian 	virtues, 	Continence, 	Fortitude, 	and 	Patience.

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS. 	133
Note 	G, 	page 	33.
And 	thro 	life 	s 	various 	scenes 	we 	rarely 	see
Two 	fix 	d 	affections 	in 	one 	breast 	agree.
In 	Campbell 	s 	beautiful 	poem, 	&quot;
Theodric,&quot; 	the 	same 	senti
ment 	is 	expressed 	in 	nearly 	the 	same 	language. 	Thus 	writes
Campbell 	:
&amp;lt;;
It 	was 	not 	strange 	; 	for in 	the 	human 	breast
Two 	master-passions 	cannot 	co-exist,
And 	that 	alone 	which 	now 	usurped 	his 	brain
Shut 	out 	not 	only 	peace 	but 	other 	pain.&quot;
It 	is 	sometimes 	amusing 	to 	trace 	the 	similarity 	not 	only 	of
idea, 	but 	also 	of 	expression, 	which 	exists 	between 	writers 	both
of 	the 	same, 	and 	of 	different 	times. 	This, 	no 	doubt, 	often
arises 	from 	the 	circumstance 	of 	one 	writer 	having 	read 	the
works, 	and 	appropriated, 	perhaps 	unintentionally, 	the 	senti
ments 	and 	expressions 	of 	his 	predecessors 	; 	but, 	to 	assert 	that
such 	is 	always 	the 	case, 	would 	be 	to 	contradict 	nature 	and 	to
belie 	experience 	; 	since 	we 	frequently 	find 	contemporary 	authors
writing 	in 	the 	same 	language, 	using 	the 	same 	ideas, 	and 	cloth
ing 	them 	in 	nearly 	the 	sa 	ne 	words, 	without, 	at 	the 	same 	time,
the 	possibility 	existing 	of 	their 	having 	had 	any 	previous
acquaintance 	with 	each 	others 	works. 	Mr. 	Addison 	s 	observa
tions 	upon 	this 	subject are 	so 	accurate, 	and 	point 	so 	exactly 	to
that 	which 	I 	would 	here 	establish, 	that 	I 	cannot 	resist 	the
pleasure 	of 	quoting 	them 	at 	full 	length. 	Remarking 	upon
Pope 	s 	&quot;
Essay 	on 	Criticism,&quot; 	he 	says, 	&quot;
The 	Art 	of 	Criticism,
which 	was 	published 	some 	months 	ago, 	is 	a 	masterpiece 	in 	its
kind. 	The 	observations 	follow 	one 	another, 	like 	those 	in
Horace 	s 	Art 	of 	Poetry, 	without 	that 	methodical 	regularity

134 	NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
which 	would 	have 	been 	requisite 	in 	a 	prose 	writer. 	They 	are
some 	of 	them 	uncommon, 	but 	such 	as 	the 	reader 	must 	assent
to 	when 	he 	sees 	them 	explained 	with 	that elegance 	and 	perspi
cuity 	with 	which 	they 	are 	delivered. 	As 	for 	those 	which 	are
the 	most 	known 	and 	most 	received, 	they 	are 	placed 	in 	so 	beau
tiful 	a 	light, 	and 	illustrated 	with 	such 	apt 	allusions, 	that 	they
have 	in 	them 	all 	the graces 	of 	novelty, 	and 	make 	the 	reader
who 	was 	before 	acquainted 	with 	them, 	still 	more 	convinced 	of
their 	truth 	and 	solidity. 	And 	here 	give 	me 	leave 	to 	mention
what 	Monsieur 	Boileau 	has 	so 	well 	enlarged 	upon 	in 	the 	pre
face 	to 	his 	works, 	that 	wit 	and 	fine 	writing 	do 	not 	consist
so 	much 	in 	advancing 	things 	that 	are 	new, 	as 	in 	giving 	things
that 	are 	known 	an 	agreeable 	turn. 	It 	is 	impossible 	for 	us, 	who
live 	in 	the 	latter 	ages 	of 	the 	world, 	to 	make 	observations 	in
criticism, 	morality, 	or 	any 	art 	and 	science 	which 	have 	not 	been
touched 	upon 	by 	others. 	We 	have 	little 	else 	left 	us 	but 	to
represent 	the 	common 	sense 	of 	mankind 	in 	more 	strong, 	more
beautiful, 	or 	more 	uncommon 	lights. 	If 	a 	reader 	examines
Horace 	s 	Art 	of 	Poetry, 	he 	will 	find 	but 	few 	precepts 	in 	it 	which
he 	may 	not 	meet 	with 	in 	Aristotle, 	and 	which 	were 	not 	com
monly 	known 	by 	all 	the 	poets 	of 	the 	Augustan 	age. 	His 	way
of 	expressing 	and 	applying 	them, 	not 	his 	invention 	of 	them, 	is
what 	we 	are 	chiefly 	to 	admire. 	Longinus, 	in 	his 	reflections,
has 	given 	us 	the 	same 	kind 	of 	sublime 	which 	he 	observes 	in
the 	several 	passages 	which 	occasioned 	them. 	I 	cannot 	but
take 	notice 	that 	our 	English 	Author 	has, 	after 	the 	same 	man
ner, 	exemplified 	several 	of 	his 	precepts 	in 	the 	very 	precepts
themselves.&quot;

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
Note 	H, 	page 	36.
Diogenes 	and 	Heraclitus 	shone
Thus 	sharers 	of 	the 	gods 	empyreal 	throne.
Diogenes 	was 	a 	Cynic 	philosopher, 	and 	the 	pupil 	of 	Antis-
thenes, 	who 	was 	the 	founder 	of 	that 	sect. 	He 	was 	remarkably
austere 	in 	his 	manners 	and 	mode 	of 	life, 	carrying 	out 	to 	an
extreme 	point 	the 	fundamental 	principles 	of 	the 	Cynic 	School,
namely, 	a 	contempt 	of 	riches, 	and 	abhorrence 	of 	luxury. 	He
lived, 	for 	the 	most 	part, 	in 	a 	large 	vessel, 	which 	was 	called 	his
Tub 	: 	to 	which 	circumstance 	Juvenal 	alludes 	in 	the following
lines 	;
&quot;
Safe 	in 	his 	tub 	the 	naked 	Cynic 	lives
Fearless 	of 	fire 	Break 	up 	his 	house 	; 	next 	day
Brings 	him 	a 	new 	one, 	or 	repairs 	the 	old.&quot;
Some 	of 	the 	doctrines 	of 	the 	Cynics 	were 	truly 	beautiful 	;
Such 	are 	these,-&quot; 	A 	sensible 	friend 	ought 	to 	be 	valued 	above
a 	relation, 	for 	the 	ties 	of 	virtue 	are 	stronger 	than 	those 	of
blood.&quot;
&quot;It 	is 	better 	to 	be 	among 	the 	few 	wise, 	than 	among 	the
multitude 	of 	fools.&quot;
&quot;
The 	man 	who 	fears 	another, 	whatever 	he 	may 	think 	of
himself, 	is 	a 	slave.&quot;
&quot;
The 	harmony 	of 	brethren 	is 	a stronger 	defence 	than 	a 	wall
of 	brass.&quot;
&quot;The 	most 	necessary 	part 	of 	learning 	is 	to 	unlearn 	our
errors.&quot;

136 	NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
Note 	J, 	page 	50.
We 	call 	him 	&quot;
fool,&quot; 	should 	he 	to 	anger 	rise
For 	what 	occurs 	each 	day 	before 	our 	eyes.&quot;
In 	the 	Proverbs 	of 	Solomon, 	12th 	chapter 	and 	21st 	verse,
we 	read 	as 	follows 	:
&quot;
Whatsoever 	shall 	befall 	the 	just 	man, 	it
shall 	not 	make 	him 	sad 	: 	but 	the 	wicked 	shall 	be 	filled 	with
mischief.&quot; 	Not 	the 	least 	agreeable 	part 	of 	the 	study 	of 	the
&quot;
Enchiridion,&quot; 	is 	the 	collation 	of 	the 	various 	precepts 	and
doctrines 	contained 	therein 	with 	the 	sacred 	instructions 	of
Holy 	Writ. 	I 	myself 	have 	experienced 	great 	pleasure 	from
this 	exercise 	; 	and 	anticipating 	a 	similar feeling 	in 	my 	classi
cal 	readers, 	I 	have 	interspersed 	several 	references 	of 	this
description, 	at 	the 	foot of 	the 	pages, 	throughout 	the 	work.
Note 	J, 	page 	65.
What 	gives 	true 	piety 	its 	worth 	and 	grace,
Thus 	thro 	the 	feelings 	of 	the 	mind 	we 	trace
To deem 	the 	gods 	impartial 	and 	all-wise 	;
That 	all 	things 	ordered 	from 	their 	hands 	arise 	;
And 	so 	imprest 	to 	yield 	to 	their 	decrees,
Obey 	their 	will 	and 	follow 	where 	they 	please.
Pope 	arrives 	at 	the 	same 	conclusion 	when 	he 	declares 	:
&quot;
Despite 	of 	Pride, 	in 	erring 	Eeason 	s 	spite,
This 	truth 	is 	clear, 	whatever 	is, 	is 	rigJit&quot;
Here, 	too, 	we 	find 	a 	very 	close 	affinity 	of 	idea 	between 	the
author 	of 	the 	&quot;
Enchiridion,&quot; 	and 	the 	writer 	of 	the 	&quot;
Essay 	on
Man 	;&quot; 	although 	there 	is 	no 	great 	probability 	that 	Pope 	borrowed
the 	sentiment 	from 	his 	Stoical 	predecessor.

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS. 	137
Note 	K, 	page 	69.
But, 	when 	thy 	friend 	to 	danger 	is 	betrayed,
And 	when 	thy 	Country 	s 	wrongs 	demand 	thy 	aid,
Pause 	not 	to 	learn 	the 	gods 	all- wise 	decree,
What 	accidents 	may 	hence 	accrue 	to 	thee.
The 	Stoic 	philosophers 	advocated 	and 	disseminated 	the
glorious 	principles 	of 	Civil 	liberty 	: 	and 	the 	Athenians 	erected
a 	monument 	to 	the 	memory 	of 	Zeno, 	the 	founder 	of 	the 	Stoical
School, 	as 	a 	grateful 	acknowledgment 	of 	the 	services 	which
he 	had 	rendered 	to their 	state 	by 	the 	sound 	doctrines 	which 	he
had 	taught, 	and 	exemplified 	in 	his 	own 	conduct. 	The 	following
complimentary 	lines 	were 	inscribed 	upon 	this 	monument 	:
&quot;
Zeno, 	thy 	years 	to 	hoary 	age 	were 	spent,
Not 	with 	vain 	riches, 	but 	with 	self-content 	:
A 	stout 	and 	constant 	sect 	derived 	from 	thee,
The 	father 	of 	unfearing 	liberty.&quot;
The 	friendship 	of 	this 	philosopher 	was 	of 	the 	most 	sincere*
ardent, 	and 	permanent 	nature 	: 	he 	regarded 	his 	friend 	as 	he
did 	himself 	; 	and 	practised 	towards 	him 	the 	most 	unqualified
fidelity. 	Being 	once 	asked, 	what 	was 	a 	friend, 	Zeno 	is 	reported
to 	have 	replied, 	&quot;
&quot;AMo? 	aurof,&quot; 	(another 	self).
Note 	L. 	page 	72.
First 	learn 	thy 	tongue 	s 	full 	freedom 	to 	restrain 	;
Nor 	let 	thy 	language 	ever 	flow 	in 	vain.
Tell 	your 	king,&quot; 	said 	Zeno, 	on 	one 	occasion, 	to 	the 	Ambas
sadors 	of 	Ptolemy, 	&quot;
a 	man 	is 	here 	who 	can 	be 	silent.&quot; 	He 	said,
on 	another 	occasion, 	to 	a loquacious youth, 	&quot;
We 	have 	but 	one
tongue, 	and 	two 	eary 	; 	therefore 	we 	ought 	to 	talk 	little, 	and
hear 	much.&quot;

138 	NOTES 	TO 	EP1CTETUS.
Note 	M, 	page 	83.
Think 	thou 	what 	Socrates, 	what 	Zeno 	too,
If 	here 	engaged, 	would 	be 	most 	like 	to 	do 	;
Thus 	act 	thyself, 	and 	ever 	bear 	in 	mind
Those 	lights 	transcendant 	of 	the 	human 	kind.
There 	was 	but 	very 	little 	difference 	between 	the 	doctrines 	of
the 	Socratic 	and 	of the 	Stoic 	Schools. 	The 	Academicians, 	of
whom 	Plato 	was 	the 	founder, 	differed 	but 	little 	from 	the
Socratic 	philosophers 	: 	they 	agreed 	in 	the 	most 	sublime 	and
essential 	doctrines, 	those 	of 	the 	existence 	of 	one 	God, 	and 	of
the 	immortality 	of 	the 	Soul.
Indeed, 	there 	can 	scarcely 	be 	said to 	be 	any 	difference 	in 	the
moral 	systems 	of 	Socrates, 	and 	of 	his 	pupil, 	Plato.
The 	Stoic 	Philosophy 	was 	a 	compound 	of 	the 	systems 	of
Antisthenes, 	the 	Cynic, 	and 	of 	Plato, 	the 	Academician 	: 	hence
the 	similarity 	between 	the 	systems 	of 	Socrates, 	Plato, 	and
Zeno. 	Juvenal, 	referring 	to this 	affinity, 	says 	:
&quot;
Not 	fetched 	from 	Cynic 	or 	from 	Stoic 	Schools,
In 	habit 	different, 	but 	alike 	in 	rules.&quot;
Note 	N, 	page 	94.
If 	thou 	but 	pause 	thou 	canst 	not 	fail 	to 	see
Thy 	host 	hath 	other 	guests 	as 	well 	as 	thee.
A 	voracious 	eater 	was 	invited, 	on 	a 	certain 	occasion, 	to 	dine
with 	Zeno. 	This 	man 	was 	in 	the 	habit, 	wherever 	he 	dined, 	of
clearing 	every 	dish, 	and 	leaving 	nothing 	to 	the 	other 	guests.
Zeno, 	on 	the 	particular 	occasion 	referred 	to, 	caused 	an 	immense
fish 	to 	be 	laid 	before 	him, 	and 	to 	be 	taken 	away 	before 	there
was 	time 	to 	touch 	it. 	Whereupon 	the 	guest 	stared 	at 	the

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS. 	139
philosopher 	with 	great 	surprise 	: 	but 	Zeno 	said 	to 	him 	:
&quot;
What 	! 	cannot 	you 	endure 	for 	once 	what 	you 	make 	your
friends 	suffer 	every 	day 	?&quot;
Note 	O, 	page 	98.
Lo 	! 	the 	young 	miss, 	now 	at 	her 	fourteenth 	year,
Is 	woo 	d 	by 	men, 	and 	called 	a 	&quot;
pretty 	dear 	;&quot;
Her 	sole 	desire 	is 	to 	appear 	with 	grace 	;
Her 	constant 	study 	to 	adorn 	her 	face.
Who 	that 	reads 	these 	lines 	can 	help 	remembering 	a 	similar
strain 	of 	observation 	in 	Pope 	s 	exquisite 	Satire, 	the 	&quot;
Rape 	of
the 	Lock.&quot; 	For 	the 	sake 	of 	the 	coincidence 	of 	idea, 	and 	for
the 	gratification 	of 	the 	inquisitive 	reader, 	who 	may 	feel 	no
small 	curiosity 	to 	discover 	whether 	two 	men 	who 	lived at 	the
distance 	of 	nearly 	two 	thousand 	years 	asunder, 	thought 	alike,
and 	wrote 	alike 	on 	the 	same 	subject, 	I 	shall 	here 	take 	leave 	to
quote 	Pope 	at 	some 	length 	:
&quot;
Say, 	why 	are 	beauties 	prais 	d 	and 	honour 	d 	most,
The 	wise 	man 	s 	passion, 	and 	the 	vain 	man 	s 	boast 	;
Why 	deck 	d 	with 	all 	the 	sea 	and 	land 	afford,
Why 	angels 	call 	d, 	and 	angel-like 	ador 	d 	?
Why 	round 	our 	coaches 	crowd 	the 	white-glov 	d 	beaux 	?
Why 	bows 	the 	side-box 	from 	its 	inmost 	rows 	1
How 	vain 	are 	all 	these 	glories, 	all 	our 	pains,
Unless 	good 	sense 	preserved 	what 	beauty 	gains 	;
That 	men 	may 	say 	when 	we 	the 	front-box 	grace,
Behold 	the 	first 	in 	virtue 	as 	in 	face 	!
Oh 	! 	if 	to 	dance 	all 	night 	and 	dress 	all 	day
Charm 	d 	the 	small-pox, 	or 	chas 	d 	old 	age 	away,

140 	NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
Who 	would 	not 	scorn 	what 	housewife 	s 	cares 	produce,
Or 	who 	would 	learn 	one 	earthly 	thing 	of 	use 	?
To 	patch, 	nay 	ogle, 	might 	become 	a 	saint 	;
Nor 	could 	it 	sure 	be 	such 	a 	sin 	to 	paint.
But 	since, 	alas 	! 	frail 	beauty 	must 	decay 	;
Curl 	d 	or 	uncurl 	d, 	since 	locks 	will 	turn 	to 	gray 	;
Since, 	painted 	or 	not 	painted, 	all 	shall 	fade,
And 	she 	who 	scorns 	a 	man 	must 	die 	a 	maid 	!
What 	then 	remains 	but 	well 	our 	pow 	r 	to 	use,
And 	keep 	good 	humour 	still 	whate 	er 	we 	lose 	?
And 	trust 	me, 	dear 	! 	good 	humour 	can 	prevail,
When 	airs, 	and 	flights, 	and 	screams, 	and 	scoldings 	fail,
Beauties 	in 	vain 	their 	pretty 	eyes 	may 	roll 	;
Charms 	strike 	the 	sight, 	but 	merit 	wins 	the 	soul.&quot;
Here 	again 	the 	idea 	may 	naturally 	occur, 	whether 	Pope 	has
imitated 	Epictetus 	in 	this 	description 	of 	female 	loveliness 	; 	or
whether, 	having 	read 	the 	opinions 	of 	the 	Stoic 	philosopher, 	the
ideas 	of 	his 	predecessor 	became 	incorporated 	with 	his 	own
thoughts, 	and 	he 	drew 	from 	them 	without 	the 	consciousness 	of
his 	having 	done 	so. 	Either 	may, 	or 	may 	not, 	be 	the 	case. 	Let
us 	hear 	what 	Pope 	himself 	says 	upon 	the 	subject 	of 	the 	imita
tion 	of 	the 	Ancients. 	In 	his 	Preface 	to 	his 	Works 	he 	writes
thus 	:
&quot;
All 	that 	is 	left 	us 	is 	to 	recommend 	our 	productions
by 	the 	imitation 	of 	the 	Ancients 	; 	and 	it 	will 	be 	found 	truethat,
in 	every 	age 	the 	highest 	character 	for 	sense 	and 	learning 	has
been 	obtained 	by 	those 	who 	have 	been 	most 	indebted 	to 	them.
For, 	to 	say 	truth, 	whatever 	is 	very 	good 	sense, 	must 	have 	been
common 	sense 	in 	all 	times 	; 	and 	what 	we 	call 	learning, 	is 	but
the 	knowledge 	of 	the 	sense 	of 	our 	predecessors. 	Therefore
they 	who 	say 	our 	thoughts 	are 	not 	our 	own, 	because 	they

NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS, 	141
resemble 	the 	Ancients, 	may 	as 	well 	say 	our 	faces 	are 	not our 	own,
because 	they 	are 	like 	our 	fathers 	; 	and 	indeed 	it 	is 	very 	unrea
sonable 	that 	people 	should 	expect us 	to 	be 	scholars, 	and 	yet 	be
angry 	to 	find 	us 	so.&quot;
Note 	P, 	page 	107.
His 	humble 	gait, 	his 	modest 	self-control,
Bespoke 	the 	virtue 	reigning 	in 	his 	soul.
Socrates 	was 	a 	pattern 	of 	the 	practice 	of 	every 	virtue 	that
adorns 	and 	elevates 	the 	mind 	; 	that 	endears 	its 	possessor 	to
society, 	and 	renders 	him 	estimable, 	and 	beloved 	of 	his 	friends.
But, of 	all 	his 	excellent 	virtues, 	there 	was 	none, 	perhaps, 	more
characteristic 	than 	his 	great 	modesty. 	This 	it 	was 	which 	often
made 	him 	say 	of 	himself, 	The 	only 	thing 	I 	know, 	is 	that 	I
know 	nothing.&quot;
Note 	Q, 	page 	110.
In 	labour 	s 	empire 	range 	thy 	feelings 	free 	?
Ask 	not 	that 	gazing 	crowds 	thy 	toils 	should 	see 	;
Let 	no 	vain 	passion 	rule 	within 	thy 	breast;
Let 	not 	the 	public 	statues 	be 	caress 	d.
One 	of 	the 	biographers 	of 	the 	philosopher 	Diogenes 	thus
writes 	:
&quot;
In 	summer 	he 	would 	roll 	himself 	in 	scorching 	sand 	;
in 	winter 	he 	would 	force 	himself 	to 	touch 	statues 	covered 	with
snow 	: 	he 	was 	resolved, 	he 	said, 	to 	learn 	to 	endure 	everything.&quot;
This 	was 	a 	rather 	severe 	discipline 	; 	and 	which 	the 	Stoics
condemned 	as 	unnecessary 	to 	the 	perfection 	of 	their 	moral
system.

142 	NOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS.
Note 	R3 	pag-e 	114.
Himself 	in 	fine, 	he 	views 	with 	keenest 	eye 	;
In 	self 	he 	doth 	the 	chiefest 	knave 	descry 	:
Here 	is 	the 	traitor, 	and 	the 	knave 	accurs 	d,
A 	foe 	the 	darkest, 	fiercest, 	deadliest, 	worst.
Scarcely 	do 	we 	find 	a 	sentiment 	expressed 	in 	any 	work
relating 	to 	life 	and 	morals 	without 	being 	reminded 	of 	a 	corres
ponding 	one 	in 	the 	Works 	of 	Shakspeare. 	Thus 	writes 	the 	poet
of 	Avon 	upon 	this 	subject 	:
Tim. 	There 	s 	ne 	er 	a 	one 	of 	you 	but 	trusts 	a 	knave
That 	mightily 	deceives you.
Hoth. 	Do 	we, 	my 	lord 	?
Tun. 	Ay, 	and 	you 	hear 	him 	cog, 	see 	him 	dissemble.
Know 	his 	gross 	patchery, 	love 	him, 	feed 	him,
Keep 	in 	your 	bosom 	: 	yet 	remain 	assur 	d,
That 	he 	is 	a 	made-up 	villain.
Pain. 	I 	know 	none 	such, 	my 	lord.
Poet. 	Nor 	I.
Tint. 	Look 	you, 	I 	love 	you 	well 	; 	I 	ll 	give 	you 	gold,
Rid 	me 	these 	villains 	from 	your 	companies 	:
Hang 	them, 	or 	stab 	them, 	drown 	them 	in 	a 	draught,
Confound 	them 	by 	some 	course, 	and 	come 	to 	me,
I 	ll 	give 	you 	gold 	enough.
JJoth. 	Name 	them, 	my 	lord, 	let 	s 	know 	them.
Tim. 	You 	that 	way, 	and 	you 	this, 	but 	two 	in 	company 	:
Each 	man 	apart, 	all 	single 	and 	alone,
Yet 	an 	arch- villain 	keeps 	him 	company.
If 	where 	thou 	art, 	two 	villains 	shall 	not 	be, 	(to 	the
painter)

MOTES 	TO 	EPICTETUS. 	143
Come 	not 	near 	him. 	If 	thou 	wouldst 	not 	reside, 	(to 	the
poet)
But 	where 	one 	villain 	is, 	then 	him 	abandon,
Hence 	! 	pack 	! 	there 	s 	gold, 	ye 	came 	for 	gold, 	ye 	slaves.
You 	have 	done 	work 	for 	me, 	there 	s 	payment. 	Hence 	!
You 	are 	an 	a^chymist. 	make 	gold 	of 	that 	:
Out, 	rascal 	dogs 	! 	.
&quot;Timon 	of 	Athens.&quot;
Note 	S, 	page 	126.
Tis 	true 	these 	men 	may 	deal 	the 	fatal 	blow
That 	strikes this 	tottering 	human 	fabric 	low.
The 	words 	in 	the 	text 	are, 	&quot;
efie 	Awroc 	KCU 	Me
uev 	tivvdvTcti 	flhaifxii 	6 	ou.&quot; 	Anytus 	and 	Melitus 	have 	it 	indeed
in 	their 	power 	to 	hill 	nw, 	but 	they 	cannot 	injure me.
The 	charge 	upon 	which 	Socrates 	was 	condemned, 	was 	that 	of
not 	believing 	in 	the 	Gods 	of 	the 	State 	; 	and 	of 	having 	intro
duced 	a 	new 	system 	of 	worship. 	The 	persons 	who 	accused 	him
were 	Melitus, 	Lycon, 	and 	Anytus. 	One 	of 	the 	biographers 	of
Socrates 	thus 	refers 	to 	this 	subject 	:
&quot;
Melitus 	first 	ascended
the 	chair, 	and 	made 	a 	poor 	speech, 	suited 	both 	in 	style 	and
delivery 	to 	a 	school-boy, 	bringing 	forward 	all 	the 	charges 	that
have 	before 	been 	mentioned. 	Anytus 	spoke 	next 	; 	and 	Lycon
summed 	up 	the 	accusation 	with 	all 	the 	artifice 	of 	language
that 	he 	was 	master 	of. 	Plato 	rose 	up 	immediately 	to 	defend
his 	beloved 	master 	; 	but, 	before 	he 	had 	completed 	his 	apology
for 	his 	youth, 	he 	was 	abruptly 	commanded 	by 	the 	Court 	to 	sit
down. 	Socrates 	needed 	not 	an 	advocate 	: 	he 	had 	appeared
totally 	indifferent 	all 	the 	time 	the 	accusations 	had 	been 	made 	;
but 	he 	now 	ascended 	thec 	hair 	with 	calm 	dignity, 	and, 	with 	a

144 	NOTES 	TO 	JEPICTETUS.
look 	of 	conscious 	innocence 	and 	manly 	firmness, 	entered 	upon
his 	defence.&quot;
This 	writer 	further 	observes, 	&quot;
The 	judges 	were 	too 	much
blinded 	by 	prejudice 	to 	attend 	even 	to 	this 	defence,&quot; 	(Socrates
had 	clearly 	shewn 	the 	charges 	brought 	against 	him 	to 	have
been 	false,) 	&quot;
and, 	without 	being 	the 	least 	influenced 	by 	it,
immediately 	found 	him 	guilty 	of 	all 	the 	crimes 	with 	which 	he
was 	charged. 	So 	inexorable 	were 	his 	judges 	that 	nothing 	but
his 	life 	would 	satisfy 	them 	; 	and 	they 	eternally 	disgraced 	them
selves 	by 	condemning 	this 	great 	and 	good 	man 	to 	be 	put 	to
death 	by 	the 	poison 	of 	hemlock.&quot;
Note 	T, 	page 	126.
Rapt 	to 	its 	Maker, 	Mighty 	Jove 	alone,
It 	blazes 	round 	the 	Gods 	eternal 	throne.
There 	is 	one 	thing 	which 	cannot 	fail 	to 	occur 	to 	the reader 	of
Ancient 	Philosophy 	; 	it is 	this, 	that 	throughout 	all 	the 	works
of 	the 	philosophers 	of 	old, 	the 	doctrine 	of 	a 	plurality 	of 	gods
presents 	itself 	at 	every 	step 	; 	and 	scarcely 	can 	a 	page 	be 	turned
over 	which 	does 	not 	display 	some 	of 	the 	inmates 	of 	the 	Pan
theon. 	We 	know 	that 	Socrates, 	Plato, 	and 	other 	philosophers
of 	antiquity 	believed 	in 	the 	existence 	of 	one 	God 	; 	yet 	we 	find
these 	no 	less 	frequent 	than 	others 	in 	the use 	of 	terms 	adapted
to 	the 	doctrine 	of 	polytheism. 	They, 	no 	doubt, 	accommodated
their 	language 	and 	instruction 	to 	the 	taste 	and 	comprehension
of 	their 	hearers 	by 	applying 	the 	attributes 	of 	the 	One 	Eternal
God 	to 	the 	various 	deities 	in 	whose 	existence 	and 	power 	they
had 	been 	accustomed 	to 	believe. 	This 	was 	also 	done 	in 	obedi
ence 	o 	the 	Laws 	and 	Religion 	of 	the 	State 	; 	for 	we 	find 	Socrates

NOTES 	TO 	EFICTETUS. 	145
himself, 	whose 	expansive 	mind 	led 	Mm 	to 	the 	contemplation
of 	the 	One 	Supreme 	First 	Cause, 	and 	to 	the 	rejection 	of 	the
imaginative 	system 	of 	multifarious 	Godheads, 	even 	at his 	last
moments 	enjoining 	the 	performance 	of 	a 	superstitious 	rite,
solely 	on 	account 	of 	the 	great 	importance 	which 	he 	attached 	to
a 	due 	submission 	to 	and 	respect 	for 	the 	laws 	of 	the 	State 	under
which 	he 	lived.


THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS.
INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
Pythagoras, 	the 	author 	of 	the 	following 	didactic 	Poem,
lived 	in 	the 	fifth 	and 	sixth 	centuries 	before 	Christ. 	Accord
ing 	to 	the 	most 	authentic 	accounts 	handed 	down 	to 	us 	by 	the
Ancients, 	his 	birth 	took 	place 	about 	the 	year 	of 	the 	world
3436, 	or 	568 	years 	before 	the 	Christian 	Era, 	in 	the 	Island 	of
Samos. 	Such 	was 	the 	comeliness 	of 	his 	person, 	the 	elegance
of 	his 	address, 	and 	the 	gravity 	of 	his 	manner, 	that 	he 	was, 	in
early 	youth, 	reputed 	to 	be 	the 	son 	of 	a 	Deity. 	After 	having
obtained 	the 	rudiments 	of 	knowledge 	in 	his 	own 	country, 	and
having 	studied 	philosophy 	under 	Pherecides, 	the 	most 	cele
brated 	philosopher 	of 	his 	time, 	he 	commenced 	his 	travels 	in
search 	of 	Wisdom. 	We 	find 	it 	a 	common 	practice 	amongst
the 	ancient 	Greeks 	to 	leave 	their 	own 	country 	and 	go 	in 	quest
of 	learning 	and 	science 	into 	other 	lands. 	Egypt 	was 	the 	com
mon 	mart 	of 	their 	resort 	from 	the 	most 	remote 	times 	; 	and,
consequently, 	thither 	we 	find 	Pythagoras 	proceeded 	for 	the
purpose 	of 	accomplishing 	himself 	in 	the 	various 	branches 	of
knowledge 	for 	which 	the 	people 	of 	that 	country 	were 	cele-

148 	INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
brated. 	Having 	arrived 	there, 	he 	entered 	the 	college 	of
Thebes, 	having 	been 	previously 	refused 	entrance 	at 	that 	of
Heliopolis, 	and 	also 	of 	Memphis, 	notwithstanding 	his 	having,
through 	the 	king 	of 	Samos, 	obtained 	an 	introduction 	from 	Ama-
sis, 	the 	king 	of 	Egypt, 	to 	those 	establishments. 	So 	jealous
were 	the 	Egyptian 	priests 	of 	their mysteries, 	as 	their 	know
ledge 	was 	styled, 	that 	they 	would 	never 	admit 	strangers 	to 	a
participation 	in 	the 	treasures 	of 	their 	wisdom. 	However, 	our
young 	philosopher 	succeeded, 	through 	the 	instrumentality 	of
Amasis, 	in 	gaining 	admittance 	to 	the 	College 	of 	Thebes 	; 	and
having 	complied 	with 	all 	the 	initiatory 	requirements 	of 	the 	estab
lishment, 	he 	soon 	became 	conversant 	with 	their 	mysteries.
Here 	he 	remained 	for 	about 	a 	score 	years, 	trusted 	and 	beloved
not 	only 	by 	the 	priests 	of 	his 	own 	college 	but 	also 	by 	-all 	the
priests 	and 	prophets 	of 	all 	the 	other 	colleges, 	as 	well 	as 	those
who 	were 	distinguished 	for 	learning 	and 	wisdom 	throughout
the 	country. 	Having 	at 	last 	returned 	to 	his 	native 	country,
he 	attempted 	to 	establish 	a 	school 	there, 	but 	failed 	in 	the
attempt. 	Such 	was 	the 	stupidity 	and 	intellectual 	inertness 	of
the 	Samians, 	that 	the 	varied 	knowledge 	and 	refinement 	of
wisdom 	which 	our philosopher 	presented 	to 	them, 	was 	rejected
and 	despised, 	or 	regarded 	with 	such 	cold 	indifference 	as 	to
compel 	him 	to 	withdraw 	from 	the 	prosecution 	of 	his 	design.
He 	resumed 	his 	travels 	once 	more, 	and 	passed 	over 	into
several 	of 	the 	Grecian 	islands, 	for 	the 	purpose, 	as 	it 	became
afterwards 	evident, 	of 	acquiring 	a 	sanction 	for 	his 	doctrines,
and 	that 	he 	might 	thereby 	the 	more 	easily 	disseminate 	them
amongst 	his 	countrymen. 	We 	have 	here 	the 	commencement
of 	that 	system 	of 	quackery 	and 	imposture 	for 	which 	Pytha-

INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	149
goras 	became 	soon 	after so 	distinguished 	; 	and 	which 	tend 	so
forcibly 	to 	place 	the 	people 	of 	his 	country 	and 	of 	his 	times
on 	so 	mean 	a 	footing 	of 	civilization. 	Finding 	that 	his 	coun
trymen 	were 	incapable 	of 	appreciating 	real 	merit, 	he 	had
immediate 	recourse 	to 	extraneous 	aid 	derived 	from 	his 	pre
tended 	communion 	with 	the 	gods. 	At 	Delos 	he 	conversed
with 	the 	Priestess 	of 	Apollo, 	and 	from 	her 	pretended 	to 	have
received 	his 	moral 	precepts. 	In a 	cave 	of 	Mount 	Ida, 	in 	the
island 	of 	Crete, 	he 	spent 	the 	prescribed 	period 	of 	&quot;
three 	ft 	mat
nine 	days&quot; 	under 	the 	direction 	of 	the 	priests 	of 	Cybele, 	and
became 	initiated 	in 	the 	divine 	rites 	and 	sacred 	mysteries 	of
the 	Goddess. 	Having 	travelled 	further 	on, 	and 	visited 	sevrr.-il
of 	the 	States 	of 	Greece, 	with 	the 	institutions 	and 	customs 	of
which 	he 	made 	himself 	acquainted, 	he 	returned 	home. 	Now,
surrounded 	with 	all 	the 	importance 	and 	sanctity 	which 	his
intimacy 	with 	various 	Divinities 	gave 	him, 	he 	established 	a
school 	for 	the 	second 	time, 	and 	succeeded. 	His 	lectures 	\vcre
listened 	to 	with 	the 	deepest 	veneration, 	and 	crowds 	of 	dis
ciples 	flocked 	around 	him 	to 	imbibe 	learning 	and 	wisdom
from 	his 	lips. 	Thus 	we 	find 	that 	what 	real 	merit 	was 	unable
to 	accomplish 	for 	our 	philosopher, 	was 	abundant! v 	achieved
by 	false 	pretension 	and 	vile 	imposture 	; 	and 	we 	also 	discover
that 	intellectual 	ability 	and 	moral 	worth 	stood 	in 	need 	of the
base 	devices 	of 	hypocritical 	sanctity, 	falsehood 	and 	quackery,
to 	sustain 	them. 	In 	these 	our 	times, 	artifices 	of 	such 	des
cription 	would 	stand 	little 	chance 	of 	success, 	at 	least 	for 	any
great 	length 	of 	time 	; 	and 	the 	more 	civilized 	the 	community
where 	such 	practices 	would 	be 	attempted, 	the 	less 	hope 	would
exist 	of 	their 	reception. 	It 	is 	true 	that 	deceptions 	of 	almost

150 	INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
every 	species 	are 	frequently 	practised 	among 	the 	various 	pro
fessions 	and 	callings 	of 	the 	present 	day, 	but 	we 	never 	find
them 	succeed 	for 	any 	lengthened 	period, 	except 	indeed
amongst 	small 	communities 	which 	lie 	beyond 	the 	influence 	of
the 	almost 	general 	light 	of 	civilization 	which 	characterises 	the
present 	age. 	That 	the 	people 	of 	Samos 	and 	of 	the 	other
islands 	and 	districts 	of 	Greece, 	were 	carried 	away 	and 	im
posed 	upon 	by 	this 	system 	of 	imposture 	and 	pretended 	sanc
tity, 	is 	not 	a 	circumstance 	so 	much 	to 	be 	wondered 	at, 	as 	that
Pythagoras 	himself, 	a 	man 	of 	the 	highest 	order 	of 	mind, 	of
the 	soundest 	knowledge, 	of 	the 	clearest 	perception 	of 	genuine
moral 	doctrines, 	and 	of 	the 	largest 	and 	most 	comprehensive
intellectual 	faculties, 	should 	descend, 	under 	any 	possible 	pre
text, 	to 	such 	a 	shameful 	degradation 	of 	his 	powers, 	and 	such
a 	base 	prostitution 	of 	his 	learning, 	wisdom, 	and 	talents. 	No
doubt 	he 	proceeded 	on 	that 	mistaken 	principle 	which 	finds 	an
excuse 	for 	every 	extravagance, 	viz., 	that 	&quot;
the 	end justifies 	the
means&quot; 	and 	thought 	that 	there 	could 	be 	no 	wrong 	in 	bursting
the 	incrustation 	of 	ignorance 	which 	resisted 	the 	light 	of 	his
wisdom, 	and 	in 	pouring 	the 	full 	flood 	of 	knowledge 	on 	the
dull 	minds 	of 	his 	countrymen, 	even 	when 	the 	accomplishment
of 	his 	object 	hung 	on 	a 	process 	of 	deception 	and 	hypocrisy.
After 	some 	time 	he 	passed 	from 	his 	native 	country 	to 	the
Grecian 	colonies 	of 	Italy, 	where 	he 	pursued 	his 	task 	of
instructing 	the 	people 	in 	the 	various 	knowledge 	which 	he
possessed. 	And 	not 	content 	with 	disseminating 	his 	moral
doctrines, 	and 	effecting 	changes 	in 	the 	manners 	of 	the 	inhab
itants 	of 	the 	different 	cities 	of 	Magna 	Grsecia, 	as 	the 	Grecian
colonies 	of 	Italy 	were 	then 	called, 	he 	also 	. 	attempted 	a

INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	151
reformation 	in 	their 	political 	condition 	; 	but 	in 	this 	latter
attempt 	he 	met 	with 	much 	opposition, 	which 	caused 	him 	to
fly 	from 	the 	scenes 	of 	his 	labour, 	and 	seek 	refuge 	in 	the
temple 	of 	the 	Muses, 	at 	Metapontum, 	where, 	it 	is 	said, 	not
being 	able 	to 	provide 	a 	sufficient 	supply 	of 	food, 	he 	died of
hunger.
That 	Pythagoras 	exercised 	a 	most 	extraordinary 	influence
not 	only 	over 	the 	people 	of 	his 	native 	country 	of 	Samos, 	but
likewise 	over 	the 	inhabitants 	of 	the 	several 	cities 	of 	Greece,
as 	well 	as 	of 	Italy, 	there 	is 	good 	reason 	to 	believe 	; 	for 	after
his 	death 	the 	house 	in 	which 	he 	used 	to 	deliver 	his 	lectures 	at
Crotona, 	was 	converted 	into 	a 	temple 	for 	the 	goddess 	Ceres 	;
religious 	rites 	were 	celebrated 	to 	his 	memory 	; 	statues 	of
him 	were 	erected 	in 	various 	places 	; 	and 	he 	was 	in 	all
respects 	regarded 	as 	a 	Divinity.
The 	system 	of 	superstitious 	deception 	which 	he 	had 	thought
proper 	to 	adopt, 	in 	the 	propagation 	of 	his 	doctrines, 	had no
doubt 	great 	weight 	with 	the 	people 	of 	his 	day, 	and 	contributed,
in 	an 	especial 	manner, 	to 	exalt 	him 	to 	that 	lofty 	position 	of
authority 	and 	importance 	which 	he 	shortly 	occupied. 	But,
this 	silly 	imposture 	apart, 	his 	great 	and 	varied 	learning, 	the
excellence 	and 	purity 	of 	his 	moral 	precepts, 	and 	the 	essential
elevation 	of 	his 	mind, 	which 	were 	the 	real 	basis 	whereon
stood 	his 	true 	reputation 	and 	the 	genuine 	greatness 	of 	his
character, 	have 	secured 	him 	immortal 	fame. 	Had 	he 	not,
possessed 	these 	truly 	valuable 	qualities 	and 	acquisitions, 	his
imposing 	semblances, 	and 	his 	pretended 	communion 	with 	the
Deities, 	would 	not 	have 	availed 	him 	long 	; 	like 	every 	baseless
fabric 	of 	ephemeral 	splendor, 	and 	every 	pretender 	to 	excel-

152 	INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
lence, 	his 	system 	and 	his 	name 	would 	soon 	have sunk 	together,
leaving 	no 	trace 	behind 	them, 	save 	the 	ridicule 	and 	disgust
which 	should 	ever 	continue 	to 	hang 	round 	their 	memory.
His 	system 	of 	moral 	philosophy 	was 	alone 	calculated 	to 	raise
him 	to 	the 	loftiest 	position 	in 	the 	estimation 	of 	the 	people
of 	his 	day, 	and 	to 	hand 	down 	his 	name 	to 	the 	admiration 	of
future 	ages 	; 	but, 	independently 	of 	his 	merit 	in 	this 	respect,
his 	knowledge 	as 	an 	astronomer 	and 	a 	mathematician 	has
secured 	his 	reputation 	thoughout 	all 	succeeding 	ages 	of 	the
world. 	He, 	as 	the 	learned 	know, 	was 	the 	first 	promulgator 	of
the 	system 	of 	the 	universe 	as 	it 	is 	now 	established 	and
received. 	When 	he 	first 	published 	his 	theory 	of 	the 	heavenly
.s}
r
stem, 	making 	the 	sun 	the 	centre 	of 	motion, 	and 	placing 	the
planets 	in 	their 	elliptical 	orbits 	revolving 	around 	him, 	he 	was
denounced 	as 	an 	egregious 	visionary, 	and 	his 	whole 	plan 	was
treated 	as 	a 	ridiculous 	chimera. 	It 	was 	not 	until 	some two
thousand 	years 	afterwards 	(A. 	D. 	1543) 	that 	Copernicus, 	a
native 	of 	Poland, 	attempted 	its 	revival 	; 	and 	from 	him 	it 	was
called 	the 	Copernican 	system. 	For 	Sir 	Isaac 	Newton, 	how
ever, 	it 	remained 	to 	procure 	its 	universal 	reception. 	In 	ihe
year 	1686 	he 	made 	his 	calculations, 	and 	proved 	to 	the 	satis
faction 	of 	the 	learned 	that 	the 	system 	which, 	as 	we 	have
seen, 	had 	been 	first 	publicly 	promulgated 	by 	Pythagoras,
and 	afterwards 	revived 	by 	Copernicus, 	was 	based 	upon 	right
reason, 	and 	was 	the 	only 	one 	that 	was 	reconcilable 	to 	the
different 	phenomena 	of 	ethereal 	nature, 	and 	the 	changing
appearances 	of 	the 	celestial 	bodies. 	But, 	although 	Pythagoras
was 	the 	first 	who 	in 	Europe 	taught 	the 	doctrine of the 	solar
system, 	it 	is 	not 	to 	be 	thence 	inferred 	that 	he 	was 	the 	origin-

INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	153
ator 	or 	first 	discover 	of 	it 	; 	he 	must 	have 	derived 	it 	from 	tlio
Egyptian 	priests, 	of 	whose 	philosophy, 	and 	of 	that 	of 	the
Chaldeans, 	it 	formed 	a 	part 	; 	it 	being, 	in 	fact, 	a 	portion 	of
that 	knowledge 	which 	was 	transmitted 	from 	Noah 	to 	his
posterity.
Among 	the 	various 	novelties 	which 	our 	philosopher 	intro
duced 	into 	Europe, 	was 	that 	celebrated 	imposition, 	the
doctrine 	of 	the 	Metempsychosis, 	or 	Transmigration 	of 	souls,
This, 	too, 	he 	derived 	from 	the 	Egyptians 	; 	and 	made 	use 	of
it, 	doubtle&S; 	for 	the 	purpose 	of 	attracting 	to 	him 	the 	attention
and 	admiration 	of 	those 	amongst 	whom 	he 	wished 	to 	dissem
inate 	his 	moral 	doctrines. 	Though 	he 	is 	to 	be 	censured 	for
this 	as 	well 	as 	the 	other 	extravagances 	and 	absurdities 	in 	which
he 	indulged 	for 	the 	purpose 	of 	obtaining 	celebrity 	and 	of
enhancing 	his 	real 	merits, 	yet, 	it 	cannot 	be 	denied 	that 	his
services 	as 	a 	moral 	philosopher 	were 	of 	the 	highest 	and 	most
praiseworthy -character. 	He 	not 	only 	inculcated 	the 	practice
of the 	most 	sublime 	virtues, 	but 	also 	exhibited 	in 	himself 	a
living 	example 	of 	all 	that 	he 	taught, 	thereby 	affording 	the
best 	practical 	proof 	of 	the 	truth 	and 	value 	of 	that 	which
he 	wished 	to 	impress 	upon 	the 	attention 	of 	others. 	Of 	his
services 	in 	this 	respect 	Justin, 	the 	historian, 	thus 	speaks 	:
u 	Laudabat 	quotidie 	virtutem 	; 	et 	vitia 	luxuries, 	casusque
civitatum 	eapse 	perditarum, 	enumerabat 	; 	tantumque
studium 	ad 	frugalitatem 	multitudiuis 	provocavit, 	ut 	aliquos
ex 	his 	luxuriates 	incrcdibile 	videretur. 	Matronarum 	quoque
separatam 	a 	viris 	doctrinam, 	et 	puerorum 	a 	parentibus 	fre
quenter 	habuit. 	Docebat 	mine 	has 	pudicitiam, 	et 	obsequia
inviros; 	mine 	illos 	modestiam 	et 	literarum 	studiuui. 	Inter

154 	INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
hsec 	velut 	genitricem 	virtutum 	frugalitatem 	omnibus 	inger-
ebat, 	consecutusque disputationem 	assiduitate 	erat, 	ut 	matronse
auratas 	vestes, 	cseteraque 	susedignitatis 	ornamenta 	deponerent,
eaque 	omnia 	delata 	in 	Junonis 	sedem 	ipsi 	dese 	consecrarent,
prsese 	ferentes, 	vera 	ornamenta 	matronarum 	pudicitiam, 	non
vestes 	esse. 	In 	Juventute 	quoque 	quantum 	profligatum 	sit
victi 	faeminarum 	contumaces 	animi 	manifestant.&quot; 	(Just.,
Lib. 	20, 	cap. 	4.)
Thus 	do 	we 	find 	him 	labouring 	with 	the 	utmost 	zeal 	in
repressing 	luxury, 	and 	the 	other 	vices 	which 	spring 	from 	its
indulgence 	; 	in 	pressing 	home 	upon 	his 	pupils 	and 	hearers 	the
charms 	and 	advantages 	of 	the 	virtues 	of 	frugality, 	modesty,
temperance 	and 	chastity 	; 	in 	pointing 	out 	the 	evils 	and
calamities 	which 	flow 	from 	the 	fountains 	of 	sensual 	indulgence
and 	debauchery 	; 	and 	in 	recommending 	self-denial 	and 	the
subjugation 	of 	the 	passions 	as 	the 	only 	road 	to 	prosperity,
peace, 	and 	happiness. 	We 	also 	perceive 	that 	his 	instructions
were 	shaped 	to 	meet 	the 	distinct 	duties 	of 	husbands, 	wives,
parents, 	and 	children, 	and 	that 	he 	enforced 	on 	each 	class 	the
offices 	which 	peculiarly 	belonged 	to 	their 	respective 	depart
ments 	in 	life. 	His 	lectures 	were 	of 	two 	kinds, 	public 	and
private 	; 	the 	former 	were 	intended 	for 	those 	whom 	I 	have
just 	mentioned, 	and 	were 	chiefly 	adapted 	to 	the 	comprehen
sion 	of 	ordinary 	hearers, 	and 	related 	only 	to 	the 	practical 	and
immediate 	concerns 	of 	everyday 	life 	; 	the 	latter 	were 	only
for 	his 	private 	scholars, 	and 	embraced 	a 	full 	course 	of 	phil
osophy, 	and 	the 	mathematical 	sciences. 	His 	theological 	sys
tem was 	such 	as 	might 	naturally 	be 	expected 	from 	the 	unde
fined 	speculations 	of 	his 	times, 	in 	which 	natural 	reason 	appears

INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	155
to 	have 	been 	the 	only 	instrument 	employed 	in 	regulating
the 	designs 	and 	operations 	of 	the 	Creative 	Power 	; 	and 	in
which 	the 	tottering 	theories 	of 	imagination 	usurped 	the 	pro
vince 	of 	divine 	revelation. 	His 	moral 	and 	social 	doctrines,
however, 	it 	must 	be 	admitted, 	were 	in 	a 	very 	high 	degree
calculated 	to 	prove 	the 	blessings 	of 	society. 	He 	endeavoured
with 	great 	earnestness 	to 	establish 	union 	and 	harmony 	amongst
the 	people 	by 	instilling 	into 	their 	minds 	the 	absolute 	necessity
of 	mutual 	forbearance 	and 	universal 	charity. &quot;
Love 	one
another,&quot; 	was 	his 	great, 	his 	most 	cherished 	precept 	; 	and 	to
this 	Cicero 	alludes 	in 	his 	&quot;
Offices,&quot; 	when 	he 	says, &quot;
Nihil
autem 	est 	amabilius, 	nee 	copulatius, 	quam 	morum 	similitude
bonorum 	; 	in 	quibus 	enim 	eadem 	studia 	sunt, 	eaedemque
voluntates, 	in his 	fit, 	ut 	aeque 	quisque 	altero 	delectetur, 	ac 	se
ipso 	; 	efficiturque 	id 	quod 	Pythagoras 	ultimum 	in 	amicitia
putavit, 	ut 	unus 	fiat 	ex 	pluribus.&quot; 	(Off. 	Cic., 	Lib. 	1.)
Yes 	; 	that 	one 	might 	be 	made 	out of 	many, 	that 	is 	to say,
that 	many 	might 	be 	ruled 	by 	one 	mind, 	and 	directed 	by 	one
will, 	was, 	with 	Pythagoras, 	the 	highest 	point 	and 	the 	chief
merit 	in real 	friendship.
Of 	our philosopher 	s 	merits 	as 	a 	poet 	we 	have 	very 	little
opportunity 	of 	now 	judging, 	since 	few 	of 	his 	poetic 	produc
tions 	have 	come 	down 	to 	us. 	Indeed 	the 	poem 	now 	given 	is
the 	only 	one 	that 	I 	have 	met 	with, 	if 	I 	except 	a 	single 	verse
which 	is 	attributed 	to 	him 	by 	one 	of 	his 	editors, 	and 	which
bears 	the 	following 	interpretation 	:
Direct 	thy 	life 	beneath 	a wise 	control,
And 	guard 	against 	th 	affections 	of 	the 	soul.

156 	INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
Of 	the 	following 	poem, 	at 	least, 	it 	may 	be 	said, 	that 	the
precepts 	are 	sound, 	just 	and 	philosophical 	; 	that 	they 	are
arranged 	with 	great 	regularity, 	clearness, 	and 	precision 	; 	and
expressed 	in 	language 	forcible 	and 	impressive. 	And 	although 	it
is 	not 	marked 	with 	any 	external 	embellishments, 	or 	decora
tions 	drawn 	from 	the 	storehouse 	of 	fancy, 	yet, 	it 	possesses
what 	must 	ever 	constitute 	the 	truest 	merit 	of 	moral 	composi
tion, 	namely, 	exactness 	of 	thought, 	justness of 	reasoning, 	and
fidelity 	of 	expression; 	together 	with 	a 	certain 	ease, 	simplicity,
and 	grace, 	which 	relieve 	the 	gravity 	of 	the 	subject, 	and 	give
a 	degree 	of 	softness, 	a 	pleasing 	aspect, 	and 	an 	attractive 	air 	to
the 	whole poem.
The 	manners 	of 	Pythagoras, 	we 	are 	told, 	were 	mild,
gentle 	and 	pleasing 	; 	and 	Cicero 	informs 	us, 	that 	his 	speech
was 	distinguished 	for 	persuasive 	gravity, 	being 	entirely 	free
from 	facetiousness 	and 	hilarity. &quot;
De 	Grsecis 	autem&quot; 	says
Cicero, 	&quot;
dulcem 	et 	facetum, 	festivique 	serrnonis, 	atque 	in 	omni
oratione 	simulatorem, 	quern 	elpuva 	Gra^ci 	nominaverunt,
Socratem 	accepimus 	: 	contra, 	Pythagoram 	et 	Periclem 	sum-
mam 	auctoritatcm 	consecutos 	sine 	ulla 	hilaritate.&quot; 	(Cic. 	Off.,
Lib. 	1).
He 	died, 	as 	we 	have 	already 	seen, 	at 	Metapontum, 	whither
he 	had 	fled 	after 	the 	dispersion 	of 	his 	sodality, 	or 	philosophi
cal 	confraternity. 	Justin, 	the 	historian, 	gives 	us 	a 	sad
account 	of 	the 	breaking 	up 	of 	this 	society.* 	He 	says, 	that 	it
consisted of 	about 	three 	hundred 	young 	men, 	who 	were 	bound
together 	by 	a 	certain 	oath, 	and 	who 	passed 	their 	lives 	apart
*
(Just., 	Lib. 	21, 	cap. 	4.)

INTRODUCTION 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	157
from 	the 	rest 	of 	the 	citizens 	of 	Crotona, 	in 	the 	pursuit 	of
knowledge, 	and 	the 	exercise 	of 	virtue 	; 	but, 	that the 	Govern
ment, 	suspecting 	them 	of 	improper 	designs 	on 	the 	State,
resolved 	to 	destroy 	them 	; 	and 	accordingly 	had 	fire 	set 	to 	the
house 	in 	which 	they 	were 	assembled. 	Sixty 	of 	them 	perished
in 	the 	flames, 	while 	the 	remainder, 	with 	their 	leader, 	fled 	into
exile. 	So 	that 	Pythagoras, 	after 	having 	spent 	twenty 	years
in 	Crotori a, 	instructing 	the 	people 	in 	the 	ways 	of 	morality 	and
justice, 	and 	disseminating 	philosophy 	and 	science 	among 	the
youth 	of 	Italy, 	died 	in 	exile, 	for 	the 	want 	of 	the 	common
necessaries 	of 	life. 	His 	age, 	when 	he 	died, 	was 	about 	seventy
years.

158 	ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
To 	worship 	God 	is 	the 	first 	duty 	of 	man. 	To 	keep 	our
oaths 	inviolate, 	and 	to 	pay 	due 	reverence 	to 	illustrious 	heroes,
are 	likewise 	duties 	of 	paramount 	importance. 	We 	should
give 	honour 	to 	our 	parents, 	and 	to 	those 	connected 	with 	us 	by
blood, 	according 	to 	the 	order 	of 	relationship 	: 	with 	respect 	to
all 	other 	men, 	our 	friendship 	for 	them 	should 	be 	in 	proportion
to 	their 	progress 	in 	the 	practice 	of 	virtue. 	Let 	your 	conver
sation 	be 	mild, 	and 	your 	actions 	useful 	; 	and 	let 	not 	trivial
faults 	cause 	you 	to 	abandon 	your 	friends, 	remembering 	that
necessity 	is 	frequently 	the 	handmaid 	to 	power. 	But, 	above
all 	things, 	you 	should 	keep 	a 	close 	restraint 	upon 	your 	pas
sions 	; 	gluttony, 	sloth, 	anger, 	lechery, 	and 	impurities 	of 	every
kind, 	should 	be 	especially 	guarded 	against. 	Let 	justice 	be
always 	manifest 	in 	word 	and 	act 	; 	and 	be 	careful 	to 	repress
the 	immoderate 	desire 	of 	wealth, 	since 	great 	riches 	may 	be
yours 	to-day, 	but 	to-morrow 	they 	may 	pass 	from 	vou 	into
other 	hands 	; 	and, 	in 	all 	the 	circumstances 	of 	life, 	bear 	ever
in 	mind, 	that 	it 	is 	decreed 	for 	all 	men 	to 	die. 	It 	is 	your 	duty,
as 	well 	as 	your 	interest 	to 	bear 	the 	ills 	of 	life 	with 	patience,
mildness, 	and 	resignation 	to 	the 	Divine 	Will 	; 	and, 	while 	it 	is
lawful 	for 	you 	to 	avert 	evil 	if 	you 	can, 	or 	to 	lessen 	its 	malig
nity 	when 	it 	comes 	upon 	you, 	you 	should 	never 	forget 	that
the 	real 	sufferings 	of 	a 	good 	man 	are 	but 	small. 	Amid 	the
various 	conflicts 	and 	vexatious 	trials 	of 	life, 	be 	it 	still 	your 	aim
to 	keep 	at 	the 	side 	of 	virtue. 	Should 	falsehood 	s 	tongue 	assail

ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION. 	159
you, 	bear 	the 	calumny 	with 	mildness 	; 	and 	never 	suffer 	your
self 	to 	be 	led 	aside 	from 	the 	path 	of 	truth 	and 	justice, 	or 	to
be 	swayed from 	your 	useful 	and 	virtuous 	purposes. 	In 	word
and 	act 	be 	virtue 	still 	your 	aim. 	Be 	guarded 	in 	your 	expres
sionsit 	is 	the 	part 	of 	a 	stupid 	man 	to 	speak 	and 	act 	rashly,
but 	be 	it 	yours 	to 	pursue 	such 	a 	line 	of 	conduct 	as 	may 	tend
to 	your 	future 	peace. 	Attempt 	not 	things 	beyond 	your 	com
prehension 	and 	power, 	but 	learn 	what 	is 	useful, 	and 	practice
what 	is 	righteous 	; 	thus 	shall 	your 	life 	flow 	on 	calmly, 	peace
fully 	and 	happily. 	And, 	while 	you 	thus 	attend 	to 	the 	concerns
of 	your 	mind, 	be 	not 	neglectful 	of 	those 	tilings 	which 	apper
tain 	to 	the 	health 	of 	the 	body. 	In 	food, 	drink, 	and 	exercises,
observe 	a 	medium, 	for 	that 	is 	best. 	Let 	your 	food 	be 	whole
some, 	not 	luxurious 	; 	and 	regulate 	your 	expenditure, 	in 	this
respect, 	as 	becomes 	a 	wise 	and 	great 	man, 	free 	alike 	from
extravagance 	and 	meanness. 	Remember, 	in 	all 	things 	a
medium 	is 	the 	best. 	Let 	reflection 	precede 	all 	your 	acts 	; 	and
be cautious 	against 	taking 	any 	step 	that 	may 	turn 	out 	to 	your
disadvantage 	or 	injury. 	Let 	not 	sleep 	close 	your 	eye-lids 	ere
you 	have 	reviewed 	your 	actions 	of 	the 	day, 	and 	seen 	what
you 	have 	done, 	and 	what 	left 	undone 	; 	reproving 	yourself 	for
evil 	deeds, 	and 	deriving 	consolation 	from 	the 	contemplation
of 	those 	which 	were 	good 	and 	virtuous. 	Such 	be 	the 	unde-
viating 	course 	of 	your 	conduct 	: 	persevere 	in 	the 	glorious 	path
of 	virtuous 	duty, 	and 	it 	shall 	bo 	to 	you 	a 	source 	of 	ineffable
joy, 	of 	pure 	and 	tranquil 	delight, 	and 	of 	the 	only 	attainable
terrestrial 	felicity 	; 	it 	shall, 	moreover, 	lead 	you 	into 	a 	know
ledge 	of 	divine 	truth 	and 	heavenly 	love, 	whereby 	you 	may
hold converse 	with 	the 	Omnipotent 	Architect 	of 	the 	universe,

160 	ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION.
familiarise 	yourself 	with 	his 	wonderful 	works, 	and 	enter 	into
the 	sacred 	mysteries 	of 	nature 	and 	providence. 	Implore 	the
Deity 	to 	aid 	you 	in 	all 	your 	undertakings, 	to 	shed 	a 	light 	over
your 	mind 	whereby 	you 	may 	walk 	in 	the 	path 	of 	his 	divine
will, 	and 	to 	enlarge 	your 	understanding 	for 	the 	reception 	of
all 	his 	mighty 	designs 	; 	do 	this, 	and 	the 	wisdom 	of 	God 	s
works, 	the 	consistency 	of 	nature 	s 	laws, 	and 	the 	undcviating
rectitude 	of 	the 	dispensations 	of 	Providence, 	shall 	grow 	man
ifest 	to 	your 	vision. 	Then 	shall 	you 	be 	able 	to 	see 	what 	it 	is
you 	ought 	to 	seek, 	and 	what 	to 	avoid 	; 	then 	shall 	you 	be 	able
to 	comprehend 	how 	men 	bring 	woes 	upon 	themselves, 	and
invite 	their 	own 	sufferings, 	hapless 	wretches, 	who 	see 	not
the 	good 	placed 	within 	their 	reach, 	while 	they 	strain 	after
that 	which 	causes 	their 	deepest, 	darkest, 	and 	most 	painful
afflictions. 	Like 	cylinders, 	they 	roll 	along 	unconscious 	of
their 	destiny, 	till 	they 	become 	ingulfed 	in 	evils 	; 	falsehood,
detraction, 	contentions 	of 	every 	kind, 	and 	woes 	unnumbered,
hem 	them 	round 	on 	every 	side, 	and 	render 	their 	life 	one
unbroken 	scene 	of 	tumult 	and 	of 	misery.
Oh, 	eternal 	Father 	! 	it 	is 	thine 	to 	release 	men 	from 	the 	evils
of 	this 	life, 	or to 	teach 	them 	what 	spirit 	they 	ought 	to 	culti
vate, 	and 	what 	path 	to 	pursue, 	in 	order 	that 	they 	may 	attain
to 	everlasting 	life. 	But 	let 	us 	have 	confidence, 	remembering
that 	man 	has 	a 	divine 	origin, 	and 	that 	nature 	with 	a 	kindly
hand 	points 	to 	us 	the 	way 	which 	leads 	to 	unfading 	day, 	and
endless 	repose. 	Move 	on 	in 	the 	direction 	I 	have 	here 	pre
scribed 	for 	you 	; 	use the 	lessons 	I 	have 	given 	you 	; 	and, 	though
evils 	may 	come, 	you 	shall 	nevertheless, 	preserve 	your 	soul
from 	harm, 	and 	troubles 	shall 	vanish 	from 	your 	path. 	Dis-

ANALYTICAL 	ILLUSTRATION. 	161
countenance 	all 	luxury 	; 	drive 	sensuality far 	from 	you, 	pre
serving 	the 	purity 	of 	your 	soul; 	keep 	a 	vigilant 	watch 	over
all 	your 	thoughts, 	carefully 	scrutinizing 	them, 	no 	matter 	of
what 	kind 	they 	may 	be, 	whether 	good 	or 	bad 	; 	do 	this, 	and
you 	shall 	enjoy 	here a 	life 	of 	security 	and 	peace 	; 	and, 	passing
into 	the 	next 	world, 	your 	soul 	shall 	dwell 	immortal 	and 	in
corruptible, 	in 	fadeless 	glory, 	amid 	the 	celestial 	inhabitants.

THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS.
* 	Be 	this 	thy 	first, 	thy 	best, 	and 	fondest 	care,
Th 	immortal 	Gods 	to 	worship 	and 	revere,
(a) 	Thy 	vows 	keep 	sacred 	; 	rightful 	rev 	rence 	pay
To 	Heroes 	clad 	in 	Glory 	s 	bright 	array.
Then 	solemn 	rites 	with 	due 	regard 	bestow,
To 	Gods 	that 	dwell 	in 	Hades 	realms 	below.
(&) 	To 	sire 	and 	blood 	be due 	distinction 	giv 	n 	;
Such 	is 	the 	Law, 	the 	sov 	reign 	will 	of 	heaven.
For 	all 	men 	else, 	to 	him 	thy 	faith 	extend
(c) 	Who 	in 	himself 	exhibits 	Virtue 	s 	friend.
(a) 	If 	thou 	hast 	vowed 	any 	thing 	to 	God, 	defer 	not 	to 	pay
it 	: 	for 	an 	unfaithful 	and 	foolish 	promise 	displeaseth 	him 	: 	but
whatsoever 	thou 	hast 	vowed, 	pay 	it. 	Ecclesiastes, 	5 	oh., 	4 	ver.
(i) 	Honour 	thy 	father, 	in 	work 	and 	word, 	and 	all 	patience,
that a 	blessing 	may 	come 	upon 	thee 	from 	him, 	and 	his 	bless
ing 	may 	remain 	in 	the 	latter 	end. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	3 	ch., 	9, 	10 	ver.
(c) 	But 	be 	continually 	with 	a 	holy 	man, 	whomsoever 	thou
shalt 	know 	to 	observe 	the 	fear 	of 	God, 	whose 	soul 	is 	according
to 	thy 	own 	soul 	: 	and 	who, 	when 	thou 	shalt 	stumble 	in 	the
dark, 	will 	be 	sorry 	for 	thee. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	37 	ch., 	15 	ver.
* 	See 	note 	A, 	page 	171.

THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS. 	163
Yet, 	while 	thine 	acts 	to 	useful 	limits 	tend,
Let 	not 	light 	foibles 	scare 	thee 	from 	a 	friend 	;
From 	wise 	forbearance 	all 	thy 	strength 	must 	rise,
Know, 	Need 	and 	Power 	are 	ever 	close 	allies.
Learn 	then, 	those 	things 	so 	good 	for 	all 	to 	know,
For 	all 	who 	walk 	life 	s 	rugged 	path 	below 	;
And 	turn 	thy 	thoughts, 	and 	ply 	thy 	strength 	amain,
Each 	headlong 	grovelling 	passion 	to 	restrain.
(a) 	Let 	foul 	Debauch 	a 	stern 	subjection 	own,*
And 	Sleep 	s 	domain, 	with 	Sloth 	s 	rank 	weeds 	o 	ergrown 	;
Lust 	s 	foul 	desires 	should 	stoop 	to 	stern 	control,
And 	Anger 	s 	breath, 	that 	shakes 	the 	troubled 	soul 	;
O) 	Here 	the 	poet 	counsels 	against 	four 	of 	the 	most 	fearful
vices 	of 	our 	Nature. 	Lust, 	Anger, 	G-luttony, 	and 	Sloth. 	The
Scriptures 	denounce 	them 	on 	various 	occasions, 	as, 	My 	son,
attend 	to 	my 	wisdom, 	and 	incline 	thine 	ear 	to 	my 	prudence.
That 	thou 	mayst 	keep 	thoughts, 	and 	thy 	lips 	may 	preserve
instruction. 	Mind 	not 	the 	deceit 	of 	a 	woman. 	For 	the 	lips 	of 	a
harlot 	are 	like 	a 	honeycomb 	dripping, 	and 	her 	throat 	is 	smoother
than 	oil, 	&c. 	Prov., 	5 	ch., 	1, 	2, 	etc., 	ver. 	A 	fool 	immediately
sheweth 	his 	anger 	: 	but 	he 	that 	dissembleth 	injuries 	is 	wise.
Prov., 	12 	ch., 	1G 	ver. 	Use 	as 	a frugal 	man 	the things that 	are
set 	before 	thee: 	lest 	if 	thou 	eatest 	much, 	thou 	be 	hated.
Ecclesiasticus, 	31 	ch., 	19 	ver. 	How 	long 	wilt 	thou 	sleep, 	O
sluggard 	? 	when 	wilt 	thou 	rise 	out 	of 	thy 	sleep 	? 	Thou 	wilt
sleep 	a 	little, 	thou 	wilt 	slumber 	a 	little, 	thou 	wilt 	fold 	thy
arms 	a 	little 	to 	sleep 	: 	And 	want 	shall 	come upon 	thee, 	as 	a
traveller, 	and 	poverty 	as 	a 	man 	armed. 	But 	if 	thou 	be 	dili
gent, 	thy 	harvest 	shall 	come 	as 	a 	fountain, 	and 	want 	shall 	flee
far 	from 	thee. 	Prov., 6 	ch., 	9-11 	ver.
* 	See 	note 	B, 	page 	172.

164 	THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS.
Let 	meekness 	ever 	o 	er 	thy 	speech 	preside;
Be 	always 	found 	at 	Truth 	s 	unyielding 	side.
Let 	shameful 	acts 	far 	from 	thy 	thoughts 	be 	driv 	n,
And 	due 	respect 	to 	thine 	own 	person 	giv 	n 	;
With 	others 	ne 	er 	indulge 	the 	foul 	desire,
But, 	let 	thy 	soul 	to 	purest 	thoughts 	aspire.
(a) 	In 	word, 	in 	act, 	be 	justice 	in 	thy 	view 	;
Nor 	ever 	thou 	a 	thoughtless 	course 	pursue 	:
And 	this 	good 	truth 	bear 	always 	in 	thy 	mind,
That 	once 	to 	die 	is 	destined 	for 	mankind.
* 	And 	while 	wealth 	fails 	one 	lasting 	joy 	to 	give,
(6) 	The 	gifts 	of 	Virtue 	shall 	forever 	live.
Of 	all 	the 	woes, 	which 	Fate 	for 	man 	designs,
Whate 	er 	the 	part 	which 	heaven 	to 	thee 	assigns
With 	patience 	bear 	; 	nor 	rail 	at 	heaven 	s 	decrees 	;
The 	good 	man 	s 	portion 	is 	but 	small 	of 	these.
And 	yet 	tis 	meet 	to 	stem 	fate 	s 	onward 	flow,
And 	turn 	aside 	the 	tide 	of 	human 	woe.
(a) 	The 	Lord 	is 	only 	for 	them 	that 	wait 	upon 	him 	in 	the 	way
of 	truth 	and 	justice. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	34 	ch., 	22 	ver.
(#) 	A 	good 	man 	is 	better 	than 	great 	riches 	: 	and 	good 	favour
is 	above 	silver 	and 	gold. 	Prov., 	22 	ch., 	1 	ver. 	And, 	&quot;
Set 	not
tlay 	heart 	upon 	unjust 	possessions, 	and 	say 	not 	: 	I 	have 	enough
to 	live 	on 	: 	for 	it 	shall 	be 	of 	no 	service 	in 	the 	time 	of 	vengeance
and 	darkness. 	Be 	steadfast 	in 	the 	way 	of 	the 	Lord, 	and 	in 	the
truth 	of 	thy 	judgment, 	and 	in 	knowledge, 	and 	let 	the 	word 	of
peace 	and 	justice 	keep 	with 	thee.&quot; 	Ecclesiasticus, 	6 	ch., 	1 	and
12 	ver. 	And, 	again, 	Riches 	shall 	not 	profit 	in 	the 	day 	of
revenge 	: 	but 	justice 	shall 	deliver 	from 	death. 	Prov., 	11 	ch.,
4 	ver.
* 	See 	note 	C, 	page 	173.

THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS. 	165
What 	various 	thoughts 	men 	s 	converse 	here 	unfolds,
Some 	good, 	some 	bad, 	and 	cast 	in 	divers 	moulds 	;
Unmov 	d 	in 	justice 	let 	thy 	soul 	abide,
(a) 	Nor 	turn 	one 	moment 	from 	thy 	path 	aside 	;
Though 	falsehood 	s 	voice 	shouts 	thunder 	at 	thine 	ear,
The 	vicious 	sounds with 	tranquil 	bosom 	bear.
And, 	hark, 	meantime 	let 	no 	false 	tongue 	invite,
In 	word 	or 	deed, 	thy 	footsteps 	from 	the 	right
And 	open 	path. 	Let 	thought 	each 	act 	precede,
That 	truth 	may 	reign, 	and 	justice 	may 	succeed.
(&) 	In 	rash 	designs 	th 	unwise 	alone 	engage,
While 	deeds 	of 	worth 	display 	the 	cautious 	sage.
Be 	not 	the 	arts 	with 	unskill 	d 	hands 	essay 	d 	;
Let 	use 	direct, 	and 	reason 	be 	obey 	d 	:
Thus 	Life 	s 	pure 	stream 	in 	blissful 	mood 	shall 	glide,
While 	Wisdom 	walks 	sweet 	smiling 	at 	thy 	side.
Thy 	corporal 	health, 	meantime, 	attend 	with 	care 	;
Be 	wholesome 	bounds 	set 	to 	thy 	daily 	fare 	:
(c) 	In 	meat, 	in 	drink, 	in 	exercise, 	define
The 	needful 	space, 	and 	keep 	the 	middle 	line.
O) 	If 	wisdom 	shall 	enter 	into 	thy 	heart, 	and 	knowledge 	please
thy 	soul 	: 	counsel 	shall 	keep 	thee, 	and 	prudence 	shall 	preserve
thee. 	That 	thou 	mayst 	be 	delivered 	from 	the 	evil 	way, 	and
from 	the 	man 	that 	speaketh 	perverse 	things 	: 	who 	leave 	the
right 	way, 	and 	walk 	by 	dark 	ways 	: 	who 	are 	glad 	when 	they
have 	done 	evil, 	and 	rejoice 	in 	most 	wicked 	things 	: 	&c. 	Prov.
2 	ch., 	10-14 	ver.
( b) 	A 	fool 	worketh 	mischief 	as 	it 	were 	for 	sport 	: 	but 	wisdom
is 	prudence 	to 	a 	man. 	Prov., 	10 	ch., 	23 	ver.
(c) 	Challenge 	not 	them 	that 	love 	wine 	: 	for 	wine 	has 	destroyed

166 	THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS.
Pure 	be 	thy 	food, 	with 	guarded 	step 	refrain
From 	the 	foul 	depths 	of 	Luxury 	s 	domain.
To 	virtuous 	aims 	fire 	on 	the 	swelling 	soul,
Where 	Envy 	pale 	sits 	fretting 	at 	the 	goal.
To 	thy 	expense 	be 	decent 	limits 	made 	;
Nor 	to 	the 	Spendthrift 	s 	manners 	be 	betray 	d 	;
Nor 	in 	the 	Miser 	s 	steps 	thy 	course 	pursue 	;
But 	the 	just 	medium 	ever 	keep 	in 	view.
* 	To 	honest 	aims 	let 	all 	thy 	actions 	tend,
(a) 	Truth, 	justice, 	peace, 	their 	purpose 	and 	their 	end.
Let 	not 	thine 	eyes 	to 	balmy 	sleep 	be 	woo 	d
Ere 	thou 	hast 	thrice 	thy 	daily 	acts 	review 	d.
Thus 	search 	thy 	heart, 	how 	have 	I 	spent 	this 	sun 	?
What 	rules 	transgress 	d 	? 	what 	duties 	left 	undone?
Each 	weak, 	bad 	act 	reprove 	with 	fearless 	mind 	;
And 	in 	the 	good 	enjoy 	a 	bliss 	refin 	d.
(6) 	Such 	be 	thy 	practice, 	such thy 	labor 	here,
very 	many. 	Fire 	trieth 	hard 	iron 	: 	so 	wine 	drank 	to 	excess
shall 	rebuke 	the 	hearts 	of 	the 	proud. 	Ecctesiasticus, 	31 	ch.,
30-31 	ver.
O) 	Treasures 	of 	wickedness 	shall 	profit 	nothing 	: 	but 	justice
shall 	deliver 	from 	death. 	Prov., 	10 	ch.. 	2 	ver. 	Vide 	etiam,
Prov., 	11 	ch., 	4 	ver.
St. 	Paul 	speaks 	beautifully 	on 	this 	subject, 	&quot;And 	put 	on
the 	new 	man, 	who 	according 	to 	God, 	is 	created 	in 	justice, 	and
holiness 	of 	truth. 	Wherefore 	putting 	away 	lying, 	speak 	ye 	the
truth 	every 	man 	with 	his 	neighbour 	: 	for 	we 	are 	members 	one
of 	another.&quot; 	Ephes., 	4 	ch., 	24, 	25 	ver.
(&) 	Be 	not 	delighted 	in 	the 	paths 	of 	the 	wicked, 	neither 	let
* 	See 	note 	D, 	page 	174.

THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS. 	167
In 	Virtue 	s 	path, 	with 	soul 	resolved, 	sincere 	;
And 	grace 	divine 	within 	thy 	soul 	shall 	grow,
Wrought 	by 	the 	hand 	of 	him 	who 	bids 	to 	flow
A 	fount 	perennial 	of 	essential 	joy,
Of 	fourfold 	bliss 	unmingled 	with 	alloy 	:
But, 	be 	thy 	works 	approach d with 	heav 	nly 	love,
With 	pure 	devotion 	to 	the 	Gods 	above.
From 	acts 	like 	these 	pursued 	with 	dauntless 	soul
Shall 	peer 	those 	laws 	which 	every 	change 	control 	;
The 	Gods 	immortal 	with 	pure 	light 	shall 	shine,
And 	manifest 	their 	nature 	all 	divine 	;
And 	every 	change 	which 	falls 	to 	mortal 	man
Shall 	then 	appear 	to 	square 	with 	Nature 	s 	plan 	:
Thou, 	too, 	shalt 	learn 	of 	heavenly 	laws 	the 	force,
Why 	Nature 	keeps 	a 	never 	changing 	course 	;
That 	all 	exist 	as 	justice 	hath 	ordained 	;
That 	one 	unbroken 	order 	is 	maintained.
Hence 	hope 	and 	fear 	shall 	wisely 	rule 	thy 	soul,
While 	Truth 	directs, 	and 	Reason 	holds 	control 	:
Hence 	nought 	can 	hap 	mysterious 	to 	the 	view,
And 	nought 	be 	hop 	d 	which 	Virtue 	deems 	untrue.
the 	way 	of 	evil 	men 	please 	thee. 	Flee 	from 	it, 	pass 	not 	by 	it 	:
go 	aside 	and 	forsake 	it. 	For 	they 	sleep 	not 	except 	they 	have
done 	evil 	: 	and 	their sleep 	is 	taken 	away 	unless 	they 	have 	made
some 	to 	fall. 	Prov., 	4 	ch., 	14-16 	ver.
See 	also 	the 	third 	chapter 	of 	Proverbs, 	on 	the 	practice 	of
Virtue.

168 	THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS.
Then, 	this 	good 	truth 	it 	shall 	be 	thine 	to 	know,
(a) 	That 	ofttimes 	men 	bid 	their 	own 	sorrows 	flow 	;
Unhappy 	wretches, 	whose 	slow 	faltering 	sight
Eefuse 	to 	see 	the 	blessings 	of 	the 	light 	;
And 	whose 	weak 	ears 	unconscious 	of 	a 	sound,
List 	not 	the 	cheering 	voices 	waving 	round.
(&) 	How 	few 	are 	they 	who 	judge 	where 	evils 	end,
And 	to 	what 	sad 	overthrow 	of 	mind 	they 	tend 	;
Who 	ignorant 	of 	right, 	unpracticed 	in 	the 	good
Roll 	reckless 	on 	in 	ways 	not 	understood 	:
Unnumber 	d 	ills, 	a 	fierce 	and 	dread 	array,
In 	ambush 	hid, 	beset 	their 	rugged 	way.
Oh, 	melancholy 	strifes, 	attendants 	of 	their 	fate,
Approach 	unseen, 	and 	on 	their 	footsteps 	wait 	;
(c) 	Ills 	which 	the 	good, 	who 	Wisdom 	s 	voice 	obey,
Bid 	stand 	aloof, 	or 	turn 	their 	steps 	away.
(a) 	Do 	no 	evils, 	and 	no 	evils 	shall 	lay 	hold 	of 	thee. 	Depart
from 	the 	unjust, 	and 	evils 	shall 	depart 	from 	thee. 	My 	son, 	sow
not 	evils 	in 	the 	furrows 	of 	injustice, 	and 	thou 	shalt 	not 	reap
them 	sevenfold. 	Ecclesiasticus, 	7 	ch., 	1-3 	ver.
(Z) 	?A 	deceitful 	balance 	is 	an 	abomination 	before 	the 	Lord 	:
and 	a 	just 	weight 	is 	his 	will. 	Where 	pride 	is, 	there 	also 	shall
be 	reproach 	: 	but 	where 	humility 	is, 	there 	also 	is 	wisdom. 	The
simplicity 	of 	the 	just 	shall 	guide 	them 	: 	and 	the 	deceitfulness
of the 	wicked 	shall 	destroy 	them. 	Riches 	shall 	not 	profit 	in
the 	day 	of 	revenge 	: 	but 	justice 	shall 	deliver 	from 	death. 	Tl\e
justice 	of 	the 	upright 	shall 	make 	his 	way 	prosperous 	: 	and 	the
wicked 	man 	shall 	fall 	by 	his 	own 	wickedness. 	The 	justice 	of
the 	righteous 	shall 	deliver 	them 	: 	and 	the 	unjust 	snail 	be 	caught
in 	their 	own 	snares. 	Prov., 	11 	ch., 	1-6 	ver.
(c) 	For 	a 	description 	of 	wisdom, 	her 	praises, 	her 	excellence,

THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS. 	169
Oh, 	mighty 	Jove 	! 	whose 	all-seeing 	vision 	knows
The 	length, 	and 	breadth, 	and 	depth 	of 	human 	woes,
Why 	not 	vouchsafe 	in 	love 	to 	feeble 	man,
To 	keep 	him 	safe 	from 	ills, 	or 	shew 	the 	plan
Whereby 	to 	shun 	them 	? 	or 	inform 	his 	fate,
And 	teach 	what 	spirit 	he 	should 	cultivate 	?
() 	But 	grieve 	not 	thou, 	nor 	at 	thy 	fate 	repine 	;
Since 	all 	men 	own 	an 	origin 	divine 	;
And 	sacred 	nature, 	to 	her 	instincts 	true,
Exhibits 	all 	things 	to 	thy 	willing 	view.
Observe 	the 	precepts 	I 	have 	given 	thee 	here 	;
Apply 	the 	cure, 	and 	learn 	no 	more 	to 	fear.
The 	soul 	then 	free 	shall 	onward 	move 	apace,
(b) 	And 	Wisdom 	s 	ways 	in 	fearless 	movement 	trace.
and 	the 	fruits 	which 	she 	produces, 	read 	the 	seventh 	and 	eighth
chapters 	of 	the 	Book 	of 	&quot;
Wisdom 	;&quot; 	also^the 	first 	and 	second
chapters 	of 	&quot;
Proverbs.&quot;
(#) 	&quot;
Therefore 	I 	say 	to 	you, 	be 	not 	solicitous 	for 	your 	life,
what 	you 	shall 	eat, 	nor 	for 	your 	body 	what 	you 	shall 	put 	on. 	Is
not 	the 	life 	more 	than 	the 	meat 	: 	and 	the 	body 	more 	than 	the
raiment 	? 	Behold 	the 	birds 	of 	the 	air, 	for 	they 	neither 	sow, 	nor
do 	they 	reap, 	nor 	gather 	into 	barns 	: 	and 	your 	heavenly 	Father
feedeth 	them. 	Are 	not 	you 	of 	much 	more 	value 	than
they 	?&quot;
And, 	&quot;
If 	the 	grass 	of 	the 	field, 	which 	is 	to-day, 	and
to-morrow 	is 	cast into 	the 	oven, 	God 	doth 	so 	clothe 	: 	how 	much
more 	you, 	O 	ye 	of 	little 	faith 	? 	Matt., 	6 	ch., 	25, 	26 	and 	30 	ver.
(i) 	I 	wisdom 	dwell 	in 	counsel, 	and 	am 	present 	in 	learned
thoughts. 	The 	fear 	of 	the 	Lord 	hateth 	evil 	: 	I 	hate 	arrogance,
and 	pride, 	and 	every 	wicked 	way, 	and 	a 	mouth 	with 	a 	double
tongue. 	Counsel 	and 	equity 	is 	mine, 	prudence 	is 	mine, 	strength
is 	mine. 	By 	[me 	kings 	reign, 	and 	lawgivers 	decree 	just

170 	THE 	GOLDEN 	VERSES 	OF 	PYTHAGORAS.
Each 	passion 	curb, 	refrain 	from 	foul 	excess 	;
The 	swelling 	fury 	of 	the 	blood 	repress.
On 	righteous 	basis 	let 	each 	action 	rest,
Be 	moral 	worth 	the 	guide, 	the 	sign, 	and 	test 	:
By 	this 	fair 	touch-stone 	let 	each 	thought 	be 	tried 	;
And 	heavenly 	truth 	shall 	in 	thy 	breast 	abide.
* 	Thus 	shall 	the 	soul, 	when 	left 	this 	mortal 	home,
Thro 	regions 	pure 	of 	sublime 	raptures 	roam.
things. 	By 	me 	princes 	rule, 	and 	the 	mighty 	decree 	justice. 	I
love 	them 	that 	love 	me 	: 	and 	they 	that 	in 	the 	morning 	early
watch 	for 	me, 	shall 	find 	me. 	With 	me 	are 	riches 	and 	glory,
glorious 	riches 	and 	justice. 	For 	my 	fruit 	is 	better 	than 	gold
and 	the 	precious 	stone, 	and 	my 	blossoms 	than 	choice 	silver. 	I
walk 	in 	the 	way 	of 	justice, 	in 	the 	midst 	of 	the 	paths 	of 	judg
ment. 	That 	I 	may 	enrich 	them 	that 	love 	me, 	and 	may 	fill
their 	treasures. 	Prov., 	8 	ch., 	12-21 	ver.
* 	See 	note 	E, 	page 	175.

NOTES 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
Note 	A, 	Page 	162.
Be 	this 	thy 	first, 	thy 	best, 	and 	fondest 	care,
The 	immortal 	Gods 	to 	worship 	and 	revere.
Throughout 	all 	the 	writings 	of 	the 	ancient 	philosophers, 	the
doctrine 	of 	a 	plurality 	of 	Gods 	continually 	occurs, 	notwithstand
ing 	that 	many 	of 	the 	most 	eminent 	of 	them 	really 	believed 	in
the 	existence of 	one 	only 	Supreme 	Being, 	Creator 	of 	the 	Uni
verse, 	and 	of 	man. 	In 	my 	notes 	to 	Epictetus 	I 	have 	already
remarked 	on 	this 	peculiarity 	in 	the 	Grecian 	Sophists, 	or 	Philo
sophers. 	Among 	the 	most 	distinguished 	of 	those 	who 	believed
in 	the 	existence 	of 	one 	Supreme 	Being, 	were 	Socrates 	and
Plato 	; 	yet, 	in 	the writings 	of 	even 	these 	we 	find 	interspersed
frequent 	allusions 	to 	the 	Gods 	(debt), 	with 	an 	apparent 	be
lief 	in 	the 	polytheistic 	doctrine. 	In 	the 	case 	of 	Socrates, 	it 	is
maintained 	by 	his 	biographers, 	that 	this 	frequent 	recurrence
to 	the 	system 	of 	Godheads, 	to 	be 	found 	in 	his 	discourses 	even 	to
the 	latest 	moment 	of 	his 	existence, 	was 	chiefly 	owing 	to 	his
respect 	for 	the 	established 	opinions 	of 	his 	times, 	and 	his 	un
willingness 	to 	risk 	any 	danger 	to 	the 	peace 	of 	society 	by 	the
introduction 	of 	novel 	doctrines 	into 	the 	religion 	of 	the 	State.

172 	NOTES 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
This 	certainly 	may 	have 	been 	the 	case 	; 	but, 	yet, I 	must 	confess
that 	it 	seems 	somewhat 	strange 	that 	so 	many of 	the 	philosophers
should 	appear 	to 	have 	followed 	in 	the 	same 	track, 	without 	per
haps, 	feeling 	any 	great 	impulse 	from 	the 	motive 	so 	kindly
attributed 	to 	Socrates. 	That 	Pythagoras 	was 	a 	believer 	in 	the
existence 	of 	one 	God, 	the 	Sovereign 	Lord 	and 	Creator 	of 	the
Universe, 	there 	can 	be 	no 	doubt, 	since 	in 	his 	Theological 	system
he 	maintained, 	that 	the 	world 	was 	created 	from 	a 	chaotic 	mass
of 	matter 	by 	God, 	who 	was 	himself 	the 	living 	principle 	of 	its
existence 	its 	mover, 	its 	supporter, 	its 	soul 	; 	and 	that 	this 	same
all-powerful 	and 	sole 	Creator 	and 	supporter 	of 	the 	Universe
infused 	into 	his 	work 	symmetry, 	beauty, 	order, 	and 	harmony,
which 	no 	chance 	or 	power 	but 	himself 	could 	produce, 	and
which 	was 	the 	most 	infallible 	proof 	of 	his 	incomparable 	skill,
wisdom, 	and 	greatness. 	But, 	notwithstanding 	this 	correct 	and
sublime 	view 	of 	the 	Deity, 	we 	yet 	find 	him 	using 	the 	phraseo
logy 	of 	polytheism, 	and 	thus 	forcing 	a 	conviction 	on 	our 	minds
that 	he 	held 	some 	vague 	notion 	of 	the 	existence 	and 	power 	of
various 	Divinities.
Note 	B, 	page 	163.
Let 	foul 	debauch 	a 	stern 	subjection 	own,
And 	Sleep 	s 	domain, 	with 	Sloth 	s 	rank 	weeds 	o 	ergrown 	;
Lust 	s 	foul 	desires 	should 	stoop 	to 	stern 	control,
And 	Anger 	s 	breath 	that 	shakes 	the 	troubled 	soul.
Nothing 	could 	exceed 	in 	rigor 	and 	severity 	of 	discipline 	the
system 	which 	Pythagoras 	adopted 	with 	his 	scholars. 	While
they 	were 	under 	what 	was 	called 	their 	probation, 	he 	never

NOTES 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	173
allowed 	them 	any 	drink 	but 	water 	; 	and 	their 	food 	was 	of 	the
plainest 	description. 	And 	such 	was 	the 	importance 	which 	he
attached 	to 	self-denial 	in 	those 	youths 	who 	were 	entrusted 	to
his 	care, 	that 	he 	frequently 	exercised 	them 	in 	this 	grand 	virtue
by 	placing 	them 	at 	a 	table 	loaded 	with 	all 	sorts 	of 	luxury, 	and
compelling 	them 	to 	go 	away 	without 	having 	tasted 	a morsel.
Note 	C, 	page 	164.
And 	while 	wealth 	fails 	one 	lasting 	joy 	to 	give,
The 	gifts 	of virtue 	shall 	forever 	live.
The 	Pythagorean 	disciples 	were 	obliged, 	at 	their 	initiation)
to 	put 	all 	their 	wealth 	into 	one 	common 	fund, 	and 	to 	live
together 	without 	distinction. 	Their 	clothing, 	food, 	and 	attend
ance 	were 	alike. 	They 	sat at 	one 	table 	together, 	fared 	in 	the
same 	manner, 	underwent 	the 	same 	privations, 	and 	were 	sub
jected, 	in 	all 	respects, 	to 	a 	similarity 	of 	discipline. 	The 	object
which 	the 	philosopher 	aimed 	at 	by 	this 	regulation, 	was 	obvi
ously 	the 	suppression 	of 	avaricious 	feeling, 	as 	well 	as 	the
prevention 	of 	pride 	and 	vanity, 	in 	his 	pupils. 	We 	are 	told
that 	he 	compelled 	them 	to 	rise 	before 	the 	sun, 	to 	whose
glorious 	presence 	they 	first 	paid 	homage 	; 	they 	then 	prepared
and 	arranged 	the 	day 	s 	business 	; 	after 	which 	they 	repeated
and 	sang 	some 	verses 	from 	Homer 	and 	other 	poets. 	They 	next
betook 	themselves 	to 	the 	study 	of 	science 	; 	and 	after 	that 	they
took 	a 	walk 	for 	the 	purposes 	of 	contemplation 	and 	peaceful
relaxation. 	Conversation 	and 	athletic 	exercises 	followed 	next,
which 	were 	succeeded 	by 	a 	spare 	dinner, 	composed 	chiefly 	of
bread, 	honey, 	and 	water. 	After 	dinner 	they 	devoted 	some 	time

174 	NOTES 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS.
to 	the 	arrangement 	of 	their 	household 	affairs 	; 	after 	which
they 	spent 	the 	remaining- 	time 	before 	retiring 	to 	bed 	in 	conver
sation, 	bathing, 	and 	devotional 	exercises.
Note 	D, 	page 	166.
To 	honest 	aims 	let 	all 	thy 	actions 	tend,
Truth, 	Justice, 	Peace, 	their 	purpose 	and 	their 	end.
Of 	all 	the 	ancient 	philosophers 	there 	was, 	perhaps, 	none 	who
more 	earnestly 	inculcated 	the 	moral 	and 	social 	virtues 	than
Pythagoras. 	His 	method 	of 	training 	pupils 	to 	virtuous 	practices
was 	in 	itself 	peculiar 	; 	he 	stopped 	short 	at 	no 	difficulty 	in
carrying 	out 	his 	views 	with 	respect 	to 	the 	acquisition 	by 	his
pupils 	of 	any 	good 	quality. 	He 	placed 	great 	value 	on 	silence 	;
and 	in 	order 	to 	accustom 	his 	scholars 	to 	the 	observance 	of 	it, 	he
compelled 	such 	of 	them 	as 	displayed 	a 	loquacious 	disposition,
to 	remain 	silent, 	at 	all 	times, 	except 	when 	spoken 	to 	; 	and 	this
both 	in 	and 	out 	of 	school. 	This 	discipline 	he 	would 	continue
for 	one, 	two, 	or 	even 	five 	years, 	according 	as 	the 	nature 	of 	the
case 	required 	it. 	He 	was 	also 	very 	particular 	in 	the 	admission
of 	pupils 	to 	his 	school 	; 	he 	would 	inquire 	into 	their 	previous
mode 	of 	life, 	especially 	with 	regard 	to 	the 	manner 	in 	which
they 	had 	been 	accustomed 	to 	behave 	towards 	their 	parents 	;
he 	would 	then 	closely 	examine 	their 	features, 	and 	the 	particu
lar 	expression 	of 	the 	countenance 	; 	he 	would 	endeavour 	to
ascertain 	what 	their 	predilections 	were, 	what 	afforded 	them
the 	greatest 	degree 	of 	pleasure, 	and 	what 	caused 	them 	the
greatest 	amount 	of 	uneasiness 	or 	pain. 	In 	short, 	he 	would
give 	admission 	to 	no 	boy 	who 	was 	not 	gentle 	and 	docile, 	and
who 	did 	not 	possess 	what 	might 	be 	called 	the 	germs 	of 	good-
nefis 	and 	virtue.

NOTES 	TO 	PYTHAGORAS. 	175
Note 	E, 	page 	170.
Thus 	shall 	the 	soul, 	when 	left 	this 	mortal 	home,
Thro 	regions 	pure 	of 	sublime 	raptures 	roam.
The 	text 	runs 	thus, 	&quot;
&quot;Hv 	6 	cnrohetyas 	ou/ua 	if 	acdep 	ifavdepov
f, 	loaeai 	adavaro^ 	debs 	a/^porof, 	OVK 	ITI 	6vrjr6^. 	jBut, 	if 	you
leave 	tJie 	body, 	you 	shall 	pass 	into 	the 	pure 	etfier, 	you 	shall
be 	immortal, 	an 	incorruptible 	God, 	no 	longer 	mortal.
Pythagoras, 	like 	Socrates, 	and 	others of 	the 	ancient 	philoso
phers, 	was 	a 	firm 	believer in 	the 	immortality 	of 	the 	soul,


University 	of 	Toronto
Library
DO 	NOT
REMOVE
THE
CARD
FROM
THIS
POCKET
Acme 	Library 	Card 	Pocket
Under 	Pat 	&quot;Ref . 	Index 	File&quot;
Made 	by 	LIBRARY 	BUREAU
