Anton Szandor LaVey
A Devil's avatar
Maxime Borgeaud
group 402
Maturity Work
directed by Sébastien Graber
Collège Rousseau
October 2006

2

3
"People write fictional characters because the real thing doesn't exist."
—Anton LaVey, conversation with Blanche Barton.

4

5
Table of Contents
Introduction 7
Part I: A Brief history of Satanism 8
-Satan in the Bible 8
-The 17th and 18th century 10
-The 19th century: the Romantic Movement, Huysmans 11
-The 20th century: Aleister Crowley 15
-From Crowley to LaVey 16
Part II: The Church of Satan: Satan for LaVey and
LaVey's Satanism
18
-The formation of the Church of Satan 18
-The Church of Satan's chronicles 19
-LaVey's conception of Satan and Satanism 21
-LaVey Satanic influence 27
-Anton LaVey: the father of lies? 30
Conclusion 34
Bibliography 36
Thanks 39

6

7
Introduction
I heard about Anton Szandor LaVey for the time in Marilyn Manson's autobiography:
The Long Hard Road out of Hell. At first sight, the most striking to me was that this guy had
written a Satanic Bible. The name sounded enthralling: fascinating and dangerous at the same
time. What could be written within a Satanic Bible? Who was this man that we used to call
the Black Pope?
I chose it as the subject of my Maturity Work knowing almost nothing more except the
fact that LaVey was the founder of the Church of Satan, and author of The Satanic Bible.
Therefore the structure of my work came slowly into being, only after many readings and
discussions on the subject, and in fact, it never stopped evolving until the end.
Beside this, the Church of Satan being purely an american phenomenon: I had to work
for the biggest part with english-written books and articles. It is basically for these reasons
that my work is written in English.
The goal of my work is to study a phenomenon: Anton LaVey's Satanism ; to define it,
study its particularities, its motivation and its influence. To do this I will first discuss his
relation and correspondences, with past organizations and movements: to see what preceded
LaVey. Then I will discuss LaVey's ideas and writings: to delve into the core of the subject.
We will see then, that LaVey has had a great influence on posterior satanic movements. As
my hypothesis in this study is that LaVey's charisma is one of the main causes of his fame and
success, I will briefly describe his legendary life.
My work is composed of two parts:
The first part of this study draws a sketch of what was Satanism before LaVey. In a
parallel manner, Part I also presents some symbolisms and figurations of the Devil at certain
periods, which I have chosen because of their analogies with LaVey's conception. This study
starts from the beginning, that is to say from the representation of Satan in the Christian Bible,
and ends describing how the Church of Satan came into being.
Then the second part presents briefly the Church of Satan, and then deals with
LaVey's ideas about Satan and compares them to some earlier Movement and earlier
representations. One of the role of this chapter is to situate LaVey in the "history of Satanism"
and to show what are his particularities. The description of LaVey's thought is also essential,
to have an idea of what is really LaVey's Satanism. The second part goes on discussing
LaVey's influence on modern Satanism, and thus makes a draft of a possible interpretation of
LaVey's modern Satanism. Then, it ends with a brief description of LaVey's uncommon and
startling life and personality. Which cannot be omitted in a complete study of LaVey's
Satanism.

8
Part I
A brief history of Satanism
Even if many of the modern groups of Satanists are inspired by him and his Satanic
Bible1, the history of Satanism doesn't begin with LaVey. That is the reason why it is
necessary to study his "predecessors" in order to have a global vision of what the world of
satanism (and eventually occultism) looked like at the time The Church of Satan was created.
To provide a background for satanism will also help us later when we will be looking for the
influences different figures had on LaVey.
Here we could make two parallel studies: an investigation of the evolution of the
representation of the figure of Satan in popular imagination, in popular notion (e.g. from a
literate or an artistic point of view), or a investigation of the Satanist groups at different
periods (from a sociological point of view). Even if both can be related, as my goal here is to
situate LaVey's organisation compared with his predecessors, we will concentrate on the
second one and make connections to the other when it is necessary. For this study I refer
especially to two books: Enquête sur le satanisme by Massimo Introvigne2 and Une histoire
du diable by Robert Muchembled3.
But first of all I will begin with a brief chapter about the figure of Satan in the Bible.
For this part my sources are: an article by Liliane Crété, Satan, l'ange qui a mal tourné, the
Bible and articles about the Devil in Bible Dictionaries of the program BibleWork 54.
Satan in the Bible:
In the Bible, He is most often called Satan or the Devil but sometimes also by other
names: Tempter; Beelzebud; Belial; Great Dragon; Father of lies ... etc.
The word Satan comes from the Hebrew saTan and means adversary. In the Old
Testament the word “satan” is used 24 times. In every case except one the word is used with
its definite article (the satan). In these cases and according to its etymology the word satan, as
a common name, is used there in a general sense. That is to say that satan does not refer to
one specific character, but can be translated into enemy or adversary. For example that is the
case in 1 Samuel 29,4, where the hebrew word satan has become adversary or enemy in our
modern versions.
However, further, the term is used to call an angel whose role is one of an attorney
accusing man before God. He observes men’s behaviour and denounces to God their
violations of the divine’s law. For example in Job 1-2, the satan suggests to God to test the
piety of Job, a very pious man:
1 cf. Part. II.
2 Massimo Introvigne, Enquête sur le satanisme, Satanistes et antisatanistes du XVIIe siècle à nos jours,
Paris, Bibliothèque de l'Hermétisme, 1997. pp.10-11. Which treat the subject of satanism from a historical and
sociological point of view.
3 Robert Muchembled, Une histoire du Diable, XIIe-XXe siècle, Editions du Seuil, 2000. Which is a study of
the representation of the Devil, related to culture, art (cinema, painting, comics ...etc.).
4 Cf. Bibliography.

9
“The Lord said to the satan, "Have you considered my servant Job? There is no-one
on earth like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who fears God and shuns evil."
"Does Job fear God for nothing? the satan replied.
Have you not put a hedge around him and his household and everything he has? You
have blessed the work of his hands, so that his flocks and herds are spread throughout the
land.
But stretch out your hand and strike everything he has, and he will surely curse you to
your face.”
God accepts that the satan destroys all Job owns, and kills Job’s children. The satan
here is not a devil, he plays the role of an accuser, an attorney and acts in order to protect
God’s interests. But testing Job’s piety and his heart, he acts for the first time like a tempter.
In the Old Testament, it is only in 1 Chronicles 21,1 that the word satan appears as
Satan (a proper name): here Satan incites David to number Israel and so provokes God’s
anger.
In the Old Testament Satan is not described as The Adversary of God and mankind. At
first satan is a general term used to name an adversary, then it becomes an appellation who
designates an accuser who serves and advises God. And Satan is finally pictured as we
usually figure Him in the New Testament.
Nowhere in the New Testament we find any entire description of the concept, nor the
doctrine of Satan. To conceive His characteristics and His work we have to recollect
fragments. But His story seems to be clear, in the Apocalypse John pictures the rebellion of
Satan, who can be easily identified with satan, the accuser. Historically, Satan, passes from
any adversary, to an angel whose work is to accuse man in The Old Testament, to finally the
revolted angel, the Adversary of God, in the New Testament.
In the apocalypse, we find the best description of Satan (Rev 12). He is described as a
Great Red Dragon with seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns on His heads. With His
tail He draws the third of the stars from the sky to the Earth. Here, Satan is also identified
with the Old Serpent that tempted Eve and the one who brought evil on Earth: "that ancient
serpent called the devil, or Satan, who leads the whole world astray" (that is also the case in
Wis 2.23-24 / 2 Co 11, 3-15). Despite this, initially the serpent was no satanic personification,
but the evangelists took it as the Devil.
The Great Dragon stands in front of a woman, who is giving birth, in order to eat her
child. However God saves the baby. We find here some symbols: the stars drawn to Earth are
the angels who followed Satan in His Fall (then called the demons); the woman represents
Eve, who having been tempted, has also permitted the Evil in the world, and in consequence
all her descendants are threatened by the Devil. But God is here offering a salvation. Satan is
then defeated by the archangel Mikeal, whose name meaning in Hebrew: “the one who is like
God”. Satan is thrown down on Earth, and a voice warned the inhabitants of the Earth: “The
Devil has gone down to you, He is filled with fury, because He knows that his time is short” .
This is the beginning of Satan's reign on Earth. His reign, we know, will be destroyed
by God at the end of the world. The Christ has in fact already won His fight with Satan when
he resisted to temptation in the wilderness. In addition, each exorcism of demons performed
by Jesus is a prediction of God's future victory upon Evil.
To summarize: in the Bible Satan is the Adversary of Man and God. He tries to seduce
Man to sin, and concentrates all His power to lead man to evil. He has the power of death, but
only as an executionner, not as the Lord. Jew and Christian litterature will then assemble all
the evil under His name, and so make Him the personification of evil. As a consequence,
since the 2nd century, Satan was known in the christian tradition as the King of Hell, darkness,
death and sin, and governing a real empire.

10
During the following centuries and until the end of the first millennium the Devil was
seen as an exterior (to man) and polymorphic figure. That image of a Devil who is not totally
bad, that we can manipulate and take advantage of, was due to the deep-rooted pagan
traditions that had never totally disappeared1.
Then about the 11-12th centuries, Satan has been transformed into a more threatening
figure: he is seen as a frightful exterior entity (a great beast/dragon) waiting for sinners in Hell
for eternal torments; but also as capable to invade the body of human Being (especially of
women) in order to spur them to sin2.
As a result, at the end of the Middle Ages the witchcraft's processes began. The
clergymen were convinced of the existence of diabolic sects of witches. The women body was
seen as the home of the Devil, sexuality was therefore totally forbidden outside marriage3.
These conceptions were going to last until the Enlightenment (and the witchraft processes in
western Europe stopped about the middle of the 18th century).
However the witchcraft's processes do not fit our study as they do not enter our
definition of satanism. In fact, we find the origins of modern satanism in Europe during the
17th and 18th century.
The 17th and 18th centuries:
Some elements appeared at that time, for example in descriptions of Sabbat or in late
demoniac possession's prosecutions, that were going to have an influence a few centuries later
during the first cases of "real" Satanism. As an example in France during the 17th century in
cases of possessions: some were thought to have been induced by a third: a Satanist. But more
interesting: in some cases, people who were possessed (usually young women)4 revealed
descriptions of masses celebrated by a sorcerer and into which the catholic mass was
parodied: with uses of eucharistic host in sexual practices.
If some theologists and historians doubt about the reality of these accusations, these
practices seem really to have existed in another case, "the first real trial of Satanism"
according to Introvigne: the case of Catherine La Voisin, still in France, at the court of the
king Louis XIV. According to the archives of the laic police of the king, whose boss was the
prefect Nicolas de la Reynie, the bourgeoise Catherine La Voisin, who kept a shop in the
suburb of Paris (rue Beauregard) which officially sold cosmetics and diverse remedies, was in
fact the leader of a real satanic organization governed by women. According to thorough
searches, many testimonies and a long inquiry: in her shop she sold also poisons, eucharistic
hosts, stolen in churches by Guibourg, a priest and a great complice of La Voisin, and also
proceeded to abortions. La Voisin and Guibourg also organized black masses (this is where
the term comes from), that were ordered by nobles, especially women from the court who
expected to gain the king's (or an important character of the court) favor with the help of the
Devil. The police found in rue Beauregard, a black chapel and a crematory which contained
the remains of children's bones; La Voisin confessed that during their black masses they had
carried out approximately 2000 children's sacrifices. Many of them were in fact aborted
1 Robert Muchembled, Diable!, in Historia thématique, n°98, Le Diable. De l'ange déchu à l'axe du mal
Paris, novembre-décembre 2005, p.4
2 Ibid.
3 Ibid.
4 This is a part of the testimony of a nun, Magdelaine Bavent, in Louvier (France), 1647. Massimo
Introvigne, op. cit, p.33.

11
children from secret surgical interventions. But sometimes, according to witnesses, living
children were sacrificed to Satan (these children had been kidnapped or even bought from
poor families, hence nobody would look for them). The inquiry also mentions the use of
human fat for making candles used during the ritual (the fat was given to La Voisin by an
executioner), and reveals some details of the black mass: a woman laid down naked and was
used as an altar, the (satanic) priest inserted an eucharistic host into her vagina and then had
sexual relations with her. The client sometimes had to drink (at the chalice) a mix of sperm
and feminine sexual secretions (sometime menstrual blood of the client was added). Finally
the priest (oftently Guibourg) offered the child or the foetus (in sacrifice) to the Devil and
implored him to realize the client's wishes.
The inquiry led to the apprehension of 319 people, La Voisin and 35 others were
executed in 1680, the nobles were set free, some others were condemned to exile or to prison
for life. The organisation was destroyed by the police. The motivation of La Voisin and
Guibourg was simply money, as they confessed. And here is the difference between the case
of La Voisin and the posterior satanic organisations1.
The 19th century, the Romantic Movement, Huysmans:
Although the begining of the century
saw what Introvigne calls "an epidemic disease
of antisatanists"2 (with writers such as
Mirville, Bizouard, who denounced plots of
Satanists, behind spiritistic organizations and
(in Bizouard's books3) even accused the
Freemasons and the Mormons of Satanism
e.g.), during the 19th century in France, many
writers were attracted by the figure of Satan.
At the end of the 17th century Satan became a
subject for literature. That had been possible,
according to Muchembled, once Satan's
powers began to be discredited. The doubts
had been inspired by the 17th century's
philophers, but the real change occured at the
end of and just after the French Revolution4.
In 1796, as he was only nineteen years
old, Matthew Gregory Lewis wrote The Monk,
in which the Devil is described as an extremely beautiful young man, who is naked, wears a
star on the forehead, two scorched wings on his back and smells of a delightful perfum.
During the same period the painter William Blake also represented Satan as a young and
beautiful angel, swerving from the usual christian representation. Lewis' magnificent Satan
1 The story in more details ibid. pp.34-39
2 Massimo Introvigne, op. cit., pp.65-99
3 Ibid., pp.90-99. The book of Bizouard cited by Introvigne : Joseph Bizouard, Des Rapports de l'homme
avec le Démon. Essai historique et philosophique. Gaume Frères & J. Duprey, Paris, 1864.
4 Robert Muchembled, op. cit., p.254-255.
Image: Satan watching the Endearement of Adam and Eve, by William Blake, 1808.

12
was at the origin of a trend of artists who took part in the Romantic Movement and that
pictured the Devil as a beautiful fallen angel who is revolted against an unfair God1.
Another forerunner of the Romantic
Movement in its conception of Satan was
the british poet John Milton. His famous
The Paradise Lost (1667) is an epic poem
about the fall of Satan and the temptation of
Eve. The Romantics were fascinated by
Milton's description of Satan, who is
depicted as a proud and noble angel who
prefers "to reign in Hell than serve in
Heaven". Milton vindicated indeed rebellion
and announced the romantic representation
of Satan.
The romantic british poet Byron
(1788-1824), inspired by Milton, pictured
Lucifer as the stereotype of Rebelion ;
Byron's Devil is indeed described as a
beautiful fallen angel who is revolted
against an unfair and terrible God.
Along with Byron, the entire english
literature has been marked by the figure of Satan as a proud, powerful, beautiful, fallen, sad
and cursed angel. The french literature tried to follow the english in that trend but in France
the phenomenon did not get as much "success", even with authors such as Alfred de Vigny,
George Sand, Théophile Gautier, Lamennais and Victor Hugo. Sand for example saw Satan as
the God of the poor and the weak and as the archangel of legitimate revolt2.
However in France, the romantic vision of Lucifer was not going to have a great
posterity, as in the middle of the century the myth had lost all coherence3.
At that time Alphonse-Louis Constant began to publish books under the pseudonym
Éliphas Lévi. His style was very different from the Romantic Movement, but he also depicted
a Lucifer unfairly condemned by God, and made him the symbol of revolt and freedom. But
his vision of Satan evolved and then he imagined Him as a positive spiritual force. Lévi's
books were mainly about occultism and magic, and even if he was despised by the leaders of
esoteric societies he received a lot of success among the "common" public, and in the last
decades of the century occultism and spiritism had become fashionable. Plenty of authors
were interested in these themes: Stanislas de Guaïta, Papus, Mallarmé, Mendès,
Huysmans...etc.
Joris-Karl Huysmans published in 1890 the novel Là-bas into which he described
Satanism as it was at his time, including a black mass. The main character, Durtal, is led by
Hyacinthe Chantelouve to an ancient convent where women from the high society are
gathering together with homosexuals:
1 Robert Muchembled, Une histoire du Diable, op. cit., p.255.
2 Ibid. p.261-264
3 Ibid. p.266
Image: Illustration of Milton's The Paradise Lost, by Gustave Doré, 1866.

13
"Alors l'autel apparut, un autel d'église ordinaire, surmonté d'un tabernacle au-dessus
duquel se dressait un Christ dérisoire, infâme. On lui avait relevé la tête, allongé le corps et
des plis peints aux joues muaient sa face douloureuse en une gueule tordue par un rire
ignoble. Il était nu, et à la place du linge qui ceignait ses flancs, l'immondice en émoi de
l'homme surgissait d'un paquet de crins."1
Then Durtal complains about the horrible smell of the room and at the same time the
defrocked priest Docre walked in, and the ceremony begins:
"Précédé de deux enfants de choeur, coiffé d'un bonnet écarlate sur lequel se
dressaient deux cornes de bisons rouges, le chanoine entra. (...) Il s'inclina solennellement
devant l'autel, monta les gradins, et commença sa messe.
Durtal vit alors qu'il était, sous les habits du sacrifice, nu. (...) Docre faisait les
génuflexions, les inclination médiocres ou profondes, spécifiées par le rituel.."2
Docre begins his speech in honor of Satan, glorifying crime and sins:
"Maître des Esclandres, Dispensateur des bienfaits du crime, Intendant des somptueux
péchés et des grands vices, Satan, c'est toi que nous adorons, Dieu logique, Dieu juste! (...)
Soutien du Pauvre exaspéré, Cordial des vaincus, c'est toi qui les doues de
l'hypocrisie, de l'ingratitude, de l'orgueil, afin qu'ils se puissent défendre contre les attaques
des enfants de Dieu, des Riches! (...)
Maître, tes fidèles servants à genoux t'implorent. Ils te supplient de leur assurer
l'allégresse de ces délectables forfaits que la justice ignore ; ils te supplient d'aider aux
maléfices dont les traces inconnues déroutent la raison de l'homme; (...) ils te demandent
enfin, gloire, richesse, puissance, à toi, le Roi des déshérités, le Fils que chassa l'inexorable
Père!"3
Then Docre continues his discourse insulting Jesus Christ:
"Et toi, toi qu'en ma qualité de prêtre, je force, que tu le veuilles ou non, à descendre
dans cette hostie, à t'incarner dans ce pain, Jésus, Artisans des supercheries, Voleur
d'affection! (...) Tu as failli à tes engagements, menti à tes promesses; des siècles ont
sangloté, en t'attendant, Dieu fuyard, Dieu muet! (...) Nous voudrions taper sur tes clous,
appuyer sur tes épines, t'amener le sang douloureux au bord de tes plaies sèches! (...)
Nazaréen maudit, Roi fainéant, Dieu lâche!
-Amen », crièrent les voix cristallines des enfants de choeur."
There begins an horrible orgy between all people participating to the mass (men,
women, children ...etc.).
Huysman's sources were, according to some of his friends, a personal experience of a
black mass (but some other friends of his doubted that Huysmans really witnessed such a
mass), the research of his friend Jules Bois, who made inquiries in the occultism and "satanic"
underworld, and finally the archives of two priests condemned for heresy by the Vatican:
Vintras and Boullan. Massimo Introvigne thinks also that Huysmans might have consulted the
archives concerning La Voisin.
1 J. K. Huysmans, Là-Bas, Editions Plon, Paris, 1908, p.237.
2 Ibid. p. 240
3 Ibid. p.240-241

14
The existence of satanic black mass at the time of Huysmans is not always accepted as
true. But what is sure is that Huysmans' descriptions were going to be used as a model for
satanic black masses during the following century.
After this infatuation for Satanism, as a reaction, revived a period of antisatanism, with
the publication of a huge book from a writer called Dr Bataille: Le Diable au XIXe siècle and
a few books from a writer called Leo Taxil also about Satanism1. They both described a huge
organization of mondial Satanism: the Palladism, which was supposedly directly governed by
Satan himself and whose headquarters was located in Charleston (US). The human leader of
the organization was supposedly Albert Pike (who was actually an important Mason, but not a
Satanist...). Supposedly was the organization behind the Freemasonry, the Mormons ...etc.
The case of Leo Taxil and Dr Bataille (who in fact was just another pseudonym of
Taxil) ended with the confession of Taxil in 1897: he admitted that he had invented the whole
story about Palladism and Albert Pike. This case was however a big shock, because public
opinion and a part of the catholic church had begun to believe in Taxil's false revelations.
On the other hand, from a general point of view, the end of the century saw the
beginning of what could be called "interiorization" of the image of the Devil2. This process
began at the same period as Science became interested in the exploration of the subject, and
conjointly, the subconscious. This tendency becomes obvious in novels such as The Picture of
Dorian Gray by Oscar Wilde and especially Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde by Robert-Louis
Stevenson, in which he investigates the human mind and comes to conclude that an evil and
good exist in everyone. Here, the primordial dualism of good and evil leaves the cosmos to
invade the mind of the subject.
For some authors, the Devil is the (unconscious) symbolization by the subject of
desires and compulsions coming from his unconscious that are repelled and diabolized by his
conscious mind and its moral laws (God). It is the case for example of a follower of Freud,
Ernest Jones, who published in New York in 1911 Nightmares, Witches, and Devils. As
expected, one finds the origin of this conception in Freud's works3:
"Pour nous, les démons sont des désirs mauvais, réprouvés, découlant d'impulsions
repoussées, refoulées. Nous écartons simplement la projection que le Moyen Âge avait faite
de ces créations psychiques dans le monde extérieur; nous les laissons naître dans la vie
intérieur des malades où elles résident."4
However this process of "interiorization" of the Devil does not mean that the
traditional vision of Satan disappeared. Satan, during the 20th century, has taken many
different forms. This, according to Muchembled, went along with the end of the devoted
attachment to christian dogmatism and with the return of ancient traditions.
Modern Satanism appeared at the beginning of the 20th century. As we will see, these
sects emphasized (still today) the importance of the fulfillment of the self and egoism, and
reject(ed) all Christian moral dogmas.
1 Leo Taxil, Les Trois Points; Le Culte du Grand Architecte; Les Soeurs Maçonnes. These three books are
gathered in Léo Taxil, Les Mystères de la Franc-Maçonnerie, Letouzey, Paris, 1897
2 Robert Muchembled, op. cit. p.275-287.
3 However, Freud's opinion about Satan is more complex. But I won't deal with that subject, which would
not belong to this study.
4 Sigmund Freud, Essais de psychanalyse appliquée, Une névrose démoniaque au XVIIe siècle, Gallimard,
1952, p.214.

15
The 20th century and Aleister Crowley:
An important character of the first half of the 20th century was Aleister Crowley.
Crowley in fact was not a real Satanist, he was a magician and an atheist, but his character
and doctrine are important in our study, because he has had a great influence on modern
magic and satanic movements. If an explanation of Crowley's whole theory would be far too
long for this present study, it is nevertheless necessary to pay attention to some points of his
doctrine in order to relate them later to the theories of LaVey.
First of all one must notice that Crowley was an atheist. He declared in his Liber OZ-
The Thelemic declaration of rights of Man: "there is no other god than man". Thus he
explained in his commentary on the Book of the Law 1, that the spirits he believed in and he
invoked were not real independant "beings", but were parts of what he called "the secret self",
which is described by Crowley, who had read Freud, as a concept close to the freudian
unconscious. Crowley, who after Freud read also C. G. Jung's theory about the collective
unconscious, also argued that different people could see the same spirits in the same way.
Something also interesting is the concept of "magick"2 rituals intended to invoke these
spirits (called the ritual of invocation), that are in fact unexistant outside the mind of the
performer. The invocation here consists to identify with the spirit invoked3 (using different
manners that we will not develop here). For example a magician who wants to experience
great joy will look for a deity "whose nature is Joy. He will find what he requires in
Dionysos" 4. Here we must also pay attention to the ultimate goal of rituals according to
Crowley: "The Supreme and Complete Ritual is the Invocation of the Holy Guardian Angel"5,
to know the nature of (and to be then able to realize) what he called the "Great Work" or the
"True Will"6. He added that "all magical Rituals are particular case of this general
principle"7, that is to say that the goal of all rituals is finally to realize the True Will.
Next, Crowley's opinion about the Devil may be interesting for our study. Crowley did
not believe that Satan really existed, even less did he believe in Satan as He is described in the
Bible8, he even despised those who worshiped Him (for example the Satanists described in
Huysmans's novel Là-bas). His critic was that worshiping the Devil from the Bible was in
some ways to believe in the Bible and therefore he accused the Satanists to be in fact
"disguided" Christians.
Contrary to this, Crowley used the words "Lucifer" or "Satan" to designate the phallus.
As opposed to Christianism, Satan also symbolizes the reason of Man, who according to
Crowley is God. And Finally Crowley sometimes named "Satan" an invoked spirit for
astrological reasons9.
1 Aleister Crowley, The Law is for All. An Extended Commentary on "The Book of the Law", 2nd ed., Falcon
Press, Phoenix (Arizona), 1986, pp.77-81.
2 Crowley used to spell magick with a "k".
3 Aleister Crowley, Magick, Book 4.
4 Aleister Crowley, Magick, in theory and in practice, Castle Books, New York, p.12.
5 Ibid., p.11. For an explanation of what "The Holy Guardian Angel" is: cf. note 3.
6 In his commentary on the Book of the Law, Crowley postulates that everyone has a unique and absolute
"True Will" that determines his or her proper course in life. The "True Will" comes from the "secret self" (the
unconsciousness) and one can find it by an invocation of his "Holy Guardian Angel", the most important
deity/spirit in Crowley theory, who will reveal its nature (of the "True Will") to the performer.
7 Aleister Crowley, Magick, op. cit. p. 11
8 Massimo Introvigne, op. cit. p.218
9 Ibid. pp.216-217. As the spirit is a part of the unconscious, it does not exist!

16
Let us conclude by saying that the influence of Crowley on some points of LaVey's
theory is evident. Moreover these points are not among the less important ones. For example,
the concept of Crowley's rituals and atheism, slightly modified, will be incorporated in
LaVey's modern satanic theory.
From Crowley to LaVey:
Describing the way Crowley's ideas travelled before they reached LaVey will make us
talk about some of the last forms of Satanism still missing in our list and will lead us to talk
about a character who played a very important role in the LaVey's esoteric formation and the
genesis of The Church of Satan. This man was actually the link between Crowley and
LaVey's Satanism.
Aleister Crowley travelled to the United States a few times to earn some money but
also to meet some of his followers in California, where a man called Wilfred T. Smith had
founded a Thelemic1 Church. In 1942 Crowley elected a man called John Whiteside Parsons
(alias Jack Parsons) to be at the head of the Californian Church instead of Smith. Crowley had
been impressed by Parsons' writings.
Nevertheless Parsons split from Crowley in 1948, and endeavored to set up his own
gnostic Church. He was convinced to be the Antichrist and to have got the mission of
preparing the coming of the Beast 666. According to Introvigne Parsons was not a real
Satanist, neither an atheist magician like Crowley, but he was somewhere in-between.
Effectively Parsons in his gnostic theory believed in the Trinity even if he hated Christianism,
he just had his own interpretation.
Blanche Barton in her biography of her partner Anton LaVey writes that LaVey
contacted Jack Parsons at the beginning of the 50's in order to purchase Crowley's books.
LaVey supposedly came to the conclusion that Crowley was "a druggy poseur whose greatest
achievements were as a poet and mountain climber" 2.
However it is certainly not through his readings that LaVey got the stronger influence
of Crowley, it is through somebody famous in Hollywood for his anti-conformist films: the
underground film maker Kenneth Anger.
Kenneth William Anglemyer (alias Kenneth Anger) was born the 3rd February of
19273. He played a small role in Max Reinhardt's film: Le songe d'une nuit d'été when he was
only four years old. When he was 17 he directed with success his first film: Fireworks,
nominated at the Festival de Cannes. At the begining of the 50's, Anger who was fascinated by
magic and occultism, became a member of the group of Jack Parsons and carefully studied the
works of Aleister Crowley. He went to Sicilia to visit the ruins of the thelemic abbey of
Crowley and made a film inspired by Crowley: Inauguration of the pleasure Dome. Anger
wrote also two books on scandals in american movie history entitled Hollywood Babylon
(1965) and Hollywood Babylon II (1984).
In the 60's, every friday at midnight, Anger frequented the house number 6114 of
California Street in San Francisco. That strange painted-black house belonged to a certain
Anton LaVey.
1 Thelemic means from the doctrine of Crowley
2 Blanche Barton, The secret life of a Satanist, the authorized biography of Anton LaVey, Feral House, Los
Angeles, 1990. p.61.
3 Massimo Introvigne, op. cit., p.263.

17
At the time, LaVey held every friday night what he termed "midnight magic seminars"
on various occult topics such as vampires, werewolfs, ghosts and haunting ...etc. In her book1,
Blanche Barton explains that LaVey acquired his house of 6114 California Street in 1956.
Since the beginning the house and its strange occupants got publicity from local newpapers,
due to the fact that for example LaVey kept first a leopard and then, after its death, a lion as
house pets. LaVey and his partner of the time, Diane, organized a few times a year soirees
which gathered "a crowd of influential and eccentric people around LaVey" 2. At the time,
according to Blanche Barton, LaVey had been very interested in occult for about one decade,
worked for the SFPD (San Fransisco Police Department) as a "ghost hunter" and therefore
had a reputation of a Black Magician. In the early 60's these soirees, where discussions dealt
with occult topics, became public seminars which were held every friday night. Charging a
"moderate fee" at the door, Anton gave lectures on topics we have already mentioned.
The most famous person attending to the "midnight magic seminars" was undoubtedly
Kenneth Anger. And it is therefore both Anger and LaVey who decided to form (around
1961) "The Magic Circle" with the seminars' regular attendants. The Magic Circle gathered
periodically and separately from the rest of (curious and occasional) attendants, to perfom
rituals. According to Micheal Aquino, who was LaVey's closest collaborator until 1975, the
magic circle took "various activities and operations of formal Black Magic out of the
theorical and into the practical" 3. (It is however necessary to employ Aquino's book very
carefully, because after 1975, he and LaVey split up, and Aquino founded a rival
organization: The Temple of Set. So one should not rely too quickly on his objectivity,
especially when he criticizes LaVey, but here it seems there are no reasons not to trust him.)
In her biography Blanche Barton mentions only once Anger's name and never
acknowledges his influence on LaVey. On the other hand she briefly narrates Anger cinematic
career, his travels to Europe in pursuit of Crowley's inheritance, and discloses that Anger
"introduced LaVey to Marjorie Cameron, John [Jack] Parsons' widow" 4.
However, knowing that Anger was part (the most important individual) of the "circle"
of very close friends around LaVey, one can infer that Anger has definitely had an influence
upon the shaping of the rituals, which would then be included in the ceremony the Church of
Satan.
1 Blanche Barton, op. cit. pp.67-71
2 Ibid. p.70
3 Micheal A. Aquino, The Church of Satan, private edition, fifth edition, 2002.
4 Blanche Barton, op. cit. p.75

18
Part II
The Church of Satan: Satan for LaVey
& LaVey's Satanism
Very few people in Europe have ever heard about the Church of Satan, which is an
American phenomenon. One may think that a description of the Church of Satan's activities
would be out of the subject of the present work. On the contrary, my opinion is that such a
part is essential, simply to understand what we are talking about. The two following chapters
are just a brief presentation of LaVey's activities: their goal is not to relate each episode, but
rather to enable the reader to make a general idea of was the Church of Satan. Which is
necessary to understand LaVey's Satanism.
The formation of the Church of Satan:
As we said in the previous part, in the 60's Anton LaVey was just an excentric San
Franciscan. As Barton relates, LaVey was born in Chicago in 1930, but spent his childhood in
California where his parents gave him a rather atheistic education. The young LaVey left
home at 16 to work in a circus, at first as a cage boy, but soon (as he had a talent for music
since his early childhooh) as a musician. LaVey left then the circus and worked as an organist
in different night-clubs and bars, where he supposedly met the then-unknown Marilyn
Monroe, with whom he had a short love affair. Fews years later, as we know, he supposedly
worked for the SFPD (San Francisco Police Department), as a ghost-hunter, until the middle
of the 60's. He then earned with his seminaries and other activities enough money to live
properly.
During the 60's LaVey had indeed gathered around him of group of "followers". Those
people were attracted by LaVey's philosophy according to Blanche Barton and other Satanists
(such as Peter H. Gilmore). But it seems rather that LaVey's success was certainly due to the
taste for eccentricity and anti-conformism which were in vogue at that time. In the second half
of the 20th century San Francisco was indeed the center of american counterculture: it was the
point of convergence for the Beat Movement writers, Hippies, rock musicians, different other
artists and particularly for the Gay Liberation movement. The success of LaVey's midnight
seminaries and their unconventional topics, is then not surprising.
LaVey Barton claims that people in the Magic Circle "comprised an array of
professions and pursuits: (...)artists, attorneys, doctors, writers, and law enforcement
officers". She mainly insists on one member: Dr. Cecil Nixon and his influence upon LaVey.
Nixon (who is mainly known for his inventions, e.g. the automaton Isis) and LaVey shared a
common taste for music, hypnotism and magic. LaVey attended Nixon's soirees, where he
met musicians, actresses and various artists. Nixon's home's decorations certainly touched the
imagination of LaVey when he bedecked his Black House. Nevertheless Nixon was much
older than LaVey, and died in 1962 when he was 82 years old1.
1 Banche Barton, op. cit. pp.71-74

19
The Magic Circle was aimed to perform rituals of black magic, LaVey pretended that
owing to these rituals the people from the magic circle obtained results such as "professional
advances, unexpected rewards, monetary gains, sexual or romantic satisfaction, or the
elimination of certain enemies". They continued their activities until 1966...
In 1966, "on the last night of April—Walpurgisnacht, the most important festival of the
believers in witchcraft—LaVey shaved his head in the tradition of ancient executioners and
announced the formation of the Church of Satan" 1. The first "official" organization dedicated
to the Devil.
LaVey declared "1966 year One, Anno Satanas, the first year of the Age of Satan".
The Magic Circle turned into the core of this new organization.
The Church of Satan's chronicle:
The ceremony took place in the Black House and was rather a private one. But within
a short time, the press of California was interested and a few articles about the Church of
Satan were published. The journalists were interested in the blasphemy constituted by the first
Church of Satan (even its name was a Blasphemy), LaVey's Black House and his house-pet:
the nubian lion Togare, but they were wondering whether it was all a joke or whether they had
to take him seriously.
LaVey received the Church's ceremonies every Friday night in the parlour of his
House (the chamber that had previously been used for the rituals of the Magic Circle and
LaVey's seminaries). During the first year, rituals mainly consisted of parodies of the catholic
mass directly inspired by the description of Huysmans's Là bas.
In October of the same year, the Church of Satan converted its most famous member,
the actress Jayne Mansfield, both LaVey and Mansfield subsequently received a lot of
publicity. Despite the fact that some detractors have tried to minimize the involvement of
Jayne Mansfield with the Church of Satan, it seems rather that Mansfield really converted to
Satanism.
On February the first, 1967, Anton LaVey was asked to perform a satanic wedding
ceremony: the journalist John Raymond and Judith Case (heiress of a wealthy family from
New York) wanted Anton to consecrate their union in the name of Satan. As Raymond and
his bride were figures in the society, a huge amount of journalists crowded in the Black House
for the ceremony. From this event the Church of Satan got a lot of publicity from the media,
the press began to call LaVey the Black Pope.
On May the 23rd of the same year, LaVey performed the first satanic baptism: he
"baptized" in the name of Satan his three year old girl Zeena in front of dozens of journalists.
In December, LaVey and Anger performed the first satanic funeral, of Edward Olsen,
a Navy officer. He and his wife were members of the Church of Satan and she asserted that
her husband wished his funeral to be satanic.
The Church of Satan got however some negative publicity: for example with the death
of Jayne Mansfield in a car accident: LaVey was accused to be at the origin of her death; a
rumor he has contributed to spread2. Moreover the murders of the Charles Manson's family
gave to the Church of Satan a bad publicity. One of the murderers, Susan Atkins, had indeed
played in LaVey's Topless Witches' Review3, and later accused LaVey to have exercised an
1 Anton Szandor LaVey, The Satanic Bible, Avon Books, New York, 1969, p.3.
2 Cf. Anton LaVey, the father of lies?
3 A LaVey's entertaining show at a club in San Francisco involving half-naked girls, and which dealt with
themes such as witchcraft and vampirism.

20
evil influence upon her. Bobby Beausoleil was the first member of the Family arrested (for
the murder Gary Hinman), he was also a very good friend of Kenneth Anger and had even
lived in LaVey's Black House for a while a few years before the murders. LaVey was
nevertheless never incriminated, he had no direct involvement with the murders nor either has
his so-called influence ever been proved.
In 1969, LaVey published his first book, The Satanic Bible, which has never been out
of print and has sold over 600'000 copies worldwide. The Satanic Bible was followed in 1971
by The Compleat Witches, or what to do when virtue fails,a book about seduction, and in
1972 by The Satanic Rituals, which states the principle of rituals, but which does not
faithfully describe the rituals as they were practised within the satanic ritual chambers1.
The centre of the administration was the Black House, and most of the rituals took
place there until 1972. However, at that time LaVey stopped opening his house for public
rituals, because he was then afraid for his family. The house indeed had been the target of a
few attacks from people opposed to the satanic Church. LaVey let people know (it was
certainly untrue) that most of time he was not in San Francisco. At this point the satanic
rituals came to be held in the Grottos. The first Grottos were founded around 1970, they were
gathering points for Satanists and representatives of the central power (the Black House).
About a dozen of Grottos were disseminated around the world, but mainly in US. Each one
had a chief and the Satanists frequenting the Grottos were ranked in five degrees, where some
corresponded to Catholic "ranks". Besides, the organization was said to be directed by a
council of nine: the Order of the Trapezoid, but it seems rather that LaVey and his partner
Diane, gathered all the power.
According to Michael A. Aquino, who was LaVey's right-hand man, but who is now
an opponents to the Church of Satan, the number of people attending the satanic rituals in any
Grotto was approximately five hundred. But not every member of the Church attended to the
ceremonies and one became (this is still valid today) a member (for life) when he had paid an
adhesion's fee. So, to the contrary of Aquino, Barton claims in her book that in 1969 more
than ten thousand people had paid their adhesion's fee.
However, LaVey still faced some problems: one grotto (in Dayton) got involved with
an affair of trafficking drugs and its chief was arrested, and then "ex-communicated". Some
other Grottos were suppressed because of money's problems. So LaVey in 1975 dissolved the
Grotto's system and turned the Church of Satan into a quasi-underground organization, whose
members could practise Satanism on their own and contact LaVey for further information.
The grades within the Church were given regarding to financial participation, or to "ennoble"
someone (e.g. the rock star Marilyn Manson was given the title of satanic reverend in 1994).
By doing this he broke up with his right-hand man Michael A. Aquino, who deemed the
dissolution as a suicide. Aquino then has always been one of the strongest adversaries of
LaVey, he founded in 1975 the Temple of Set (opposed to the Church of Satan) and a part of
the Church of Satan's members and representatives followed him. Hereupon Aquino claimed
(and still does) that this event marked the end of the Church of Satan. Effectively one did not
hear much from LaVey and his organization for a while, but Aquino's organization had no
more success.
In the 80's (during the satanic panic2), the Church of Satan was almost invisible. But
the 90's (the rumors of the satanic conspiracy had then begun to fade away) announced the
return of the "real" satanic movements3.
The revival of the Church of Satan was partly due to the actions of LaVey's new
partner: Blanche Barton1, who administered the organization in cooperation with LaVey, and
1 In order not to shock.
2 Cf. LaVey's Satanic influence
3 Introvigne, op. cit. pp.369-378.

21
to another figure of the Church: Peter H. Gilmore. Barton published a biography of LaVey in
1990, and she gave birth to LaVey's first son in 1993 : Satan Xerxes Carnacki LaVey.
LaVey published another book in 1992: The Devil's Notebook, with a preface by
Kenneth Anger, which is a collection of essays and short stories.
LaVey was writing Satan Speaks, a gathering of essays on different issues, when he
died in October the 31th (Halloween), 1997 in San Francisco from heart disease.
After a conflict between Karla LaVey, his oldest daughter and Blanche Barton, Karla
received the rights on LaVey's works and Barton inherited the Church of Satan and became
High Priestess. The Black House was destroyed in 2001, even if the Church of Satan had
protested, because LaVey had had to sell it at the end of his life, for he had pecuniary
problems. A friend of his had bought the house and lent it to him until his death, but refused
to give it to LaVey's successors, who had not enough money to buy it.
In 2002, Barton appointed Peter H. Gilmore as High Priest, a role he has played until
today.
LaVey's conceiption of Satan and Satanism, The Satanic Bible:
Whether or not the Church of Satan was at the beginning just another creation of a
group of eccentric San Franciscans, after a few years it was still alive. More and more, the
Church of Satan lost its image of an entertaining organization and presented itself as an
organization with a philosophy and an "ethic":
"Someone paid me a great compliment long ago" LaVey recalled, "when he said,
about me: 'He's no fun any more'. That's when I knew I was getting somewhere. This was
when the Church was two or three years old and I realized people were beginning to regard
us as more than just fun and games." 2
LaVey had understood that his Church could be more than just "fun and games", and
that he could get notoriety that way. So, as it matured, the Church of Satan was becoming
more and more "serious". Nowadays, even if the Church of Satan's website and magazine give
information on events on places like bars, clubs, etc., it especially emphasizes the satanic
philosophy. It is no more a place just "to go to have fun", but it is an organization whose goal
is to promote a sort of "philosophy".
Therefore this chapter will deal with LaVey's thought, and briefly with the principle
and functions of rituals.
——————
"What nearly everybody in my life (...) had misunderstood about Satanism was that it
is not about ritual sacrifices, digging up graves and worshipping the devil. The devil doesn't
exist. Satanism is about worshipping yourself, because you are responsible for your own good
and evil".
—Marilyn Manson3
1 In 1984, he and his previous partner Diane had split up after 24 years of life together.
2 Barton, op. cit., p.120.
3 Marilyn Manson (with Neil Strauss), The long hard road out of hell, Plexus, London, 1998. p.164.

22
This sentence is interesting in the sense that it shows the general idea of LaVey's
philosophy. But also in the sense that Manson only refers to LaVey when he speaks of
Satanism. We will see the influence LaVey has had on modern Satanism in the following
chapter; first we will have a look on his conception of the Devil and on "his" Satanism.
LaVey claimed to have written the Satanic Bible in order to supply information about
the satanic philosophy and ethic to a larger public than only the Church's members. But in
fact, the idea of a Satanic Bible came from an editor, and it seemed that its first goal was to
get publicity for the organization. So LaVey gathered small essays he had written about
different issues on Satanism, added an introduction, one part about magic and ritual and the
Enochian Keys. Thus the book is composed of four parts: the book of Satan, the book of
Lucifer, the book of Belial and the book of Leviathan (the four crown princes of Hell
according to LaVey). The Books of Satan and Lucifer expose the philosophy and the books of
Belial and Leviathan explain the principles of magic and rituals. In the Book of Satan, Satan
himself seems to have the floor. It is however never mentioned that the words have been
somehow inspired by a supernatural force: they could come from LaVey. The Book of
Lucifer, which contains 12 chapters on different issues (like Satanic Sex, or the Black Mass),
is in fact the assemblage of the rainbow sheets (essays).
At the very beginning of the book, LaVey affirms that within this book the reader will
find true black magic. He claims to have written The Satanic Bible "because, with very few
exceptions, every tract and paper, every 'secret' grimoire, all the 'great works' on the subject
of magic, are nothing more than sanctimonious fraud—guilt ridden ramblings and esoteric
gibberish by chroniclers of magical lore unable or unwilling to present an objective view of
the subject." 1 LaVey also claims that The Satanic Bible contains the real satanic thought, as it
was practised by some characters in history. Figures like the 20th century's arms trader Basil
Zaharoff or the 18th century's occultist Cagliostro. Zaharoff was an arm merchant, who sold
weapons in the Boer War, Japanese-Russian War and World War I. Zaharoff was an expert of
corruption, and often sold arms to both sides in a war. Cagliostro was an Italian occultist
freemason and charlatan. He claimed to be a few thousand years old, to be able to see the
dead, and he sold potions that supposedly prolonged one's life. He became famous as a
magician in Paris and lived wealthily until his arrest in Rome by the Inquisition in 1789.
These two characters, according to LaVey, were true black magicians, and practised real
Satanism (without calling it Satanism). Effectively as LaVey would say, they were part of an
elite and filled their desires, mainly because of their capacity to manipulate and to use
unconventional and reprehensible methods to reach their goal.
LaVey indeed claimed that true Satanism was practised by people from the elite
everywhere in the world and that he had himself written The Satanic Bible because otherwise,
"someone maybe less qualified would have done it" 2. One can observe here that LaVey
claims that Satanism is a philosophy that deals with Man's nature (we will develop this aspect
later, when we will be describing his ideas). Satanists are then an alien elite who live
accordingly to their nature (they are an elite in that sense).
For these reasons, LaVey does not claim in The Satanic Bible to have created
Satanism (or a new Satanism), but claims to have codified a pre-existent way of living
(according Man's nature) into a "philosophy".
This philosophy as we are going to see now is a philosophy of "objective
subjectivity"3, which rejects the existence of God: for a Satanist there is no other God than the
Satanist himself.
1 LaVey, The Satanic Bible, op. cit. P.21.
2 The Church of Satan's official website.
3 Anton LaVey, The most powerful religion, on the Church of Satan's website.

23
The Satanic Bible begins thus with the Nine Satanic Statements, which synthesize the
satanic philosophy and define the figure of Satan1:
"1) Satan represents indulgence, instead of abstinence!
2) Satan represents vital existence, instead of spiritual pipe dreams!
3) Satan represents undefiled wisdom, instead of hypocritical self-deceit!
4) Satan represents kindness to those who deserve it, instead of love wasted on
ingrates!
5) Satan represents vengeance, instead of turning the other cheek!
6) Satan represents responsibility to the responsible, instead of concern in psychic
vampires!
7) Satan represents Man as just another animal, sometimes better, more often
worse than those that walk on all-fours, who, because of his "divine spiritual and
intellectual development," have become the most animal of all!
8) Satan represents all of the so-called sins, as they all lead to physical, mental,
or emotional gratification!
9) Satan has been the best friend the church has ever had, as he kept it in business
all these years!"
LaVey explains the basic principles of his philosophy by describing a character that
endorses all its main aspects. This character is Satan. There, one could question: "is the
association of Satan with his philosophy coherent?" But in my opinion this question is not
relevant, in the sense that it suggests that a fixed and dogmatic representation of Satan exists.
And as we saw in Part I (except the Christian representation), Satan in history donned many
forms and had different symbolisms depending on the place and the period. A better question
in my opinion would be: "why did LaVey choose Satan to represent his philosophy, and so
how did LaVey figure Him?" And then it would be possible to compare this representation
with others that we have seen in Part I.
In order to answer these questions, I will first briefly present LaVey's "ethic", and
then I will focus on the character of Satan, His nature and symbolism.
LaVey's Satanism denies the existence of any God. For him, Man is the result of
evolution, and therefore Man has a carnal nature. And effectively what LaVey advocates
coincides with this definition. As Man is just another animal and lives only here and now (on
earth), LaVey vindicates egoism and hedonism.
The first statement summarizes LaVey's "ethic": "indulgence instead of abstinence".
LaVey indeed "advocates indulging in each of the [Christian seven deadly] sins as they all
lead to mental, physical, or emotional gratification" 2. For example, LaVey stands for radical
1 LaVey, The Satanic Bible, op. cit. P.25.
2 Ibid. p.46.

24
sexual freedom, "in the true sense of the word" 1. That is to say the choice to be either
faithful to one person or to have many partners. Moreover, LaVey "encourages any forms of
sexual expressions you may desire, so long as it hurts no one." 2
Beside this, LaVey also advocates the law of the jungle, (or Social Darwinism):
"death to the weakling, wealth to the strong" 3, and "vengeance, instead of turning the other
cheek!"
In addition to the Satanic Bible, LaVey published in the late 80's The Eleven Satanic
Rules of the Earth, The Nine Satanic Sins and The Pentagonal Revisionism: a five points
program 4. The Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth are kinds of Satanic moral codes. The Nine
Satanic Sins present the kinds of behaviour which a Satanist scorns the most and should
absolutely not adopt. However these two writings seem to be in contradiction with, or at least
mitigate the principle of Social Darwinism. The Pentagonal Revisionism was written to
express clearly the "concrete" goals of the Church of Satan.
Actually, even if as Peter Gilmore said, LaVey "acknowledges his own faculties and
understanding of human beings to synthetize the Satanic Bible" 5, he also recognizes that his
Satanic philosophy has been mostly influenced by the philosophy of Ayn Rand (1905-1982),
even if they had probably never met. Rand was a Russian-born American writer. Few of her
novels such as The Fountainhead or Atlas Shrugged were best-sellers. Her novels' aim was to
present her philosophy: Objectivism, which is an extreme individualistic philosophy that
vindicates capitalism and egoism and scorns such notions as altruism and sacrifices for the
common good. Rand thus elevated the pursuit of self-interest to the role of first principle6.
Beside Rand, LaVey acknowledges the work of Nietzsche as a source of influence
(particularly his concept of the superhuman), and also Ragnar Redbeard's work Might is
Right (Ragnar Redbeard was the pseudonym of the New Zealander Arthur Desmond). This
book is, according to Michael A. Aquino, "an obscure, turn-of-the-century political tract" 7
which vindicates Social Darwinism. Until 1987, it was not discovered that The Book of Satan
was in fact just a plagiarism of a section of Might is Right (LaVey has never acknowledged
his sources): LaVey had just withdrawn racialism allusions and added diabolical references
of his own.
However, none of these authors was particularly interested in the figure of Satan.
Now that we have an idea of LaVey's "philosophy", we can ask ourselves, why is
Satan associated with such "humanistic" ideas?
First of all, we must know what is the nature of Satan according to LaVey. The main
adversary of LaVey, Michael Aquino, pretends that LaVey at the beginning of the Church of
Satan believed in the real existence of the Devil (as an exterior being), but suddenly changed
his opinion about the nature of Satan in 1975, at the time of the schism: "As this history
should make abundantly clear, there is no question of Anton LaVey's convictions concerning
his literal High Priesthood [and therefore no doubts about the existence of Satan] during the
1966-1975 period" 8. To prove his claim he presents testimonies of people that knew LaVey
at the time, which seem credible, but are no proof.
1 Ibid. p.66
2 Ibid. p.69.
3 Ibid. p.30.
4 Cf. Bibliography.
5 LaVey, The Satanic Bible, op. cit. pp. 9-10.
6 Ayn Rand, in Encyclopedia Britanica 2004. And Introvigne, op. cit. P.265.
7 Micheal Aquino, op. cit. p.52.
8 Micheal Aquino, op. cit. p.53.

25
Today Satanists are still divided by their conception of Satan: some hold Satan as a
symbol of freedom (as the Church of Satan does today), but some others think Satan exists
(even if they don't obligatorily picture Him as He is defined by the Christians)1. Nonetheless,
today, the Church of Satan (and especially its new High Priest, Peter Gilmore) insists on the
fact that Satan is just a symbol of the "superior" and an "accomplished" Man, present in
every Satanist individual. This symbolism of Satan, as we will see, seems coherent with what
LaVey exposes in The Satanic Bible.
In The Satanic Bible, Satan endorses some characteristics, which I will try to outline
there and try to link with currents, authors ..etc. which we saw in Part I.
As we saw God does not exist according to LaVey, and Man has a carnal nature.
Therefore, Satan is the symbol of opposition against most of Christian dogmas, as they are
falsehoods. Satan represents also all these natural needs. Satan here becomes a positive force,
or motivation, which is present in each individual, but which is repressed in many
(individuals) by their religious (Christian) "morality".
It is first interesting to notice here that Satan is no more depicted as only pure evil, as
He had been in the classical Christian representation. Some journalists and academics
attacked LaVey on this point, asking why LaVey called his philosophy "Satanism". For
example J. B. Russel in his great study of Satanism states that LaVey's conception of Satan
(not as pure evil) is contradictory and therefore that modern Satanism is a contradiction in
itself. However, as we saw in Part I, Satan in the modern times suggests much more than
only pure evil. Actually, this representation of a positive Satan looks like the Romantic
symbolism. Moreover the similarities between LaVey's representation and the Romantic one
becomes even more evident when we look on some other aspects of the figure of Satan, for
example "rebellion". Effectively, for LaVey the Devil represents rebellion and freedom
against the "morality" of Christian establishment. This is obvious within the Nine Satanic
Statements: all of them begin with the word Satan, who is associated with one of His so-
called characteristics. In many statements, Satan's characteristic is then set off against its
"Christian" counterpart (e.g. "indulgence instead of abstinence" and "vengeance instead of
turning the other cheek"). This opposition to God and to the constraints of Christian
establishment, is not unlike the Romantic description of an Angel who is revolted against an
unfair God. However, one must notice the fundamental distinctions between the Romantic
Movement and LaVey on the subject of Satan: LaVey does not believe in an exterior
(Christian) God and Devil, but on the contrary he has "adopted" the vision of an interior
Devil.
What is interesting is that LaVey here takes one of Freud's definitions of Satan that
we saw in Part I:
"Pour nous, les démons sont des désirs mauvais, réprouvés, découlant d'impulsions
repoussées, refoulées". 2
These impulses (or natural needs) are repressed by the Christian morality of the
individual (the superior self). But as for LaVey, Christianity represents falsehood; there is no
reason to consider these pulsions as bad. Therefore LaVey pretends that Satanism "fills the
large grey void between religion and psychiatry" 3, in the sense that it is supposedly a
religion close to psychiatry (close in their process of suppressing the sentiment of guilt that
usually accompanies natural impulses).
1 James R. Lewis, Who serves Satan? A Demographic and Ideological Profile, in Marburg Journal of
Religion, volume 6, N°2, June 2001. For the link on the internet: cf. bibliography.
2 Sigmund Freud, op. cit. p.214.
3 LaVey, The Satanic Bible, op. cit. p.53.

26
This links with psychiatry, now leads me to underline the resemblance between
LaVey's vision of Satan and Crowley's ideas (as we saw in Part I, these resemblances were
certainly due to the influence of Kenneth Anger on LaVey). It is interesting to mention that
Crowley held the spirits he called forth as part of his subconscious ("secret self"), which is
not unlike LaVey's representation of Satan. Moreover, LaVey here has taken back Crowley's
argument towards the Satanists who worship the Devil as He is described in the Bible:
accusing those Satanists to be just Christian in disguise.
In the principle and function of rituals, LaVey has been certainly inspired by
Crowley. Before I begin, I just want to make clear that in this study I do not examine the
process of the ritual, but just its functions and principles. Today, Peter H. Gilmore affirms
that the rituals do not imply the calling forth of supernatural forces, but are only psycho
dramatic representations, whose goal is to release an individual from his emotional tensions
and his worries. For example, the ritual of the Black Mass is aimed to release an individual
from his Christian thoughts and feelings. In this sense the satanic rituals of the Church of
Satan look like Crowley's invocation of spirits (which are in fact just part of his
subconscious), in order to reach a particular state of mind or state of feeling1.
LaVey would have totally agreed with Gilmore's claim that satanic rituals do not
imply the invocations of supernatural forces. However, for LaVey, the first definition of
magic is slightly different: magic is "the change in situations or events in accordance with
one's will, which would, using normally accepted methods, be unchangeable" 2. And even if
in many cases this just implies an effort of the only individual (like the definition given by
Gilmore), for some great rituals (like destruction ritual) it implies the help of a dark force.
This force which "permeates and motivates the universe" is not supernatural, but has just not
yet been proven by science.
Today, some Satanists3 pretend that this force represented Satan for LaVey;
associating this force, with the force that runs within all human beings (that is to say the
carnal nature of Man).
To conclude, for LaVey Satan is a symbol: He symbolizes the Satanist, a so-called
superior Man, who is freed from Christianism and its false "morality" and dogmas, accepts
that he is basically an animal and so enjoys an hedonistic life on earth ; so Satan also
symbolizes self-fulfillment and therefore egoism ; Social Darwinism is then a consequence of
this egoism. On the other hand Satan is sometime associated with a mysterious "dark force"
that is used in some magic rituals.
To answer now to the question I asked at the beginning of the chapter: LaVey
responsed to those who asked him why he called his philosophy Satanism, that finally, for he
had chosen to embody what people usually called Satan, he would take also the name.
To notice and describe LaVey's "voluntary" embodiment of Satan, is in my opinion
fundamental to understand Satanism, in the sense that doing so he embodied people's fears.
In the next chapter, we will see that this embodiment of people's fears is a feature shared by
all satanic groups.
1 CBC, the Hour, Interviews of Peter H. Gilmore by George Stroumboulopoulos, June the 6th, 2006. And
TheResistanceManifesto.com, Interview of Peter Gilmore by John Conner. Cf. Bibliography for the links on the
internet.
2 Ibid. p.110
3 Lewis 2001.

27
LaVey's satanic influence:
As we said in the introduction, LaVey's works have influenced much of the new
satanic groups today and it is also impossible to skip the fact that LaVey has been accused by
many to have an evil influence upon teenagers through his Satanic Bible. So here I will briefly
deal with these two important points: LaVey's influence upon other organized groups of
Satanists, and his influence upon teenagers and "savage Satanism".
I will first discuss the influence of LaVey on the multiple new organized satanic
groups, with the help of two articles by James R. Lewis1.
Actually, LaVey is at the origin of the main current among the satanic organizations.
Especially since 1975, but even before, the Church of Satan has frequently endured small
schisms. The "separatists" often left The Church of Satan in order to form another concurrent
organization, with ideas slightly different from LaVey's. Even if some of them disappeared
quite quickly because they had only sporadic members, some subsisted, and in addition others
were formed by non-Church-of-Satan members. The result is that nowadays there exist
multiple (impossible to know exactly their number) small satanic organizations.
For his study on modern Satanism, Lewis sent by e-mail a questionnaire of basic
questions to about 140 Satanists from all horizons. It appeared that most of the respondents
were Satanists for many years already, which means that they had adopted Satanism as "a
mature religious option". Most of the respondents (about 60%) believed in Satan in a non-
theistic way, that is to say they considered Him a symbol. To the question of Lewis: "How did
you become a Satanist?", some respondents simply said that they had read the Satanic Bible.
Moreover, Lewis discovered that modern Satanists quote the Satanic Bible "to legitimate
particular positions as well as to de-legitimate the positions of other Satanists". That shows
the importance of LaVey's influence upon modern Satanism. As Lewis, we can almost say
that LaVey founded a Satanist Tradition. This fact is very surprising if we consider LaVey's
satanic ideology:
The sociologist Max Weber explained the process of Ideology in terms of
legitimation of authority2. In our case, LaVey legitimates Satanism as a true philosophy
pretending it is based on science and reason. And as Lewis explains in his article, today
science tends to be given "a level of respect and prestige enjoyed by few other social
institutions - to the point where, as a number of observers have pointed out, science has come
to be viewed quasi-religiously". LaVey used this strategy to criticize spiritual religions from
the "securalist world-viewed derived from natural science". However, what is interesting, is
that The Satanic Bible which stands against Christian moral dogmas and which preaches
reason, is today becoming more and more a reference about Satanism for most of the new
modern groups of Satanists. In other words, The Satanic Bible which stands for rationality
against dogmas and authoritative scriptures is itself becoming a satanic authoritative
scripture! As if aiming to be an enemy to Christianity, Satanism unconsciously reproduces
Judeo-Christian characteristic and schemes of authoritative scriptures3.
1 James R. Lewis, Diabolical Authority: Anton LaVey, The Satanic Bible and the Satanist "Tradition", in
Marburg Journal of Religion, volume 7, N°1, September 2002. And Lewis 2001, op. cit. For the link on the
internet: cf. bibliography.
2 Lewis, 2002, op. cit.
3 Ibid.

28
To discuss now about "savage satanism", that is to say Satanism as it is practised by
non-organized groups of teenagers, I will use once again Introvigne's book, and a book by
David Frankfurter about rumours of Satanic Conspiracies1.
First of all, in order to have a better understanding of the problem of "savage
Satanism", I have to talk about the what occured in America during the 80's: "the satanic
panic", or the rumors of an international satanic conspiracy2.
This "satanic panic" was engendered by the story of the "survivors" who pretended
that, because of their psychotherapy, they remembered to have been abused during their
childhood by a sect of Satanists. Michelle remembers was published in 1980 and was the first
book of a "survivor", and marked the beginning of the satanic panic. According to Introvigne,
the satanic panic had been preceded by the movement "anti-sect", which had taken place
during the 70's. The satanic panic that took place in the US can be compared, writes
Introvigne, to the witchcraft's processes at the end of the Middles-Ages. One must notice that
the "panic" not only seized some religious, but laic psychatrists also believed in the
"survivors" stories. Michelle remembers was just the first "survivors"' story and was followed
by many others. The "survivors" not only published their stories into books, but also appeared
on TV's talk shows, and gave public conferences on the subject, etc.
Some survivors described an enormous (international) underground satanic plot,
which performed satanic ritual abuse on children. They supposedly imprisonned young
women, the breeders, whose role was to procreate. The babies' births were then not declared
to the authority, hence they could be sacrified without anybody knowing.
The problem for the survivors was that no proof could be found about their claims, as
they supposedly remembered events that had taken place 30 years before. However, in the
middle of the 80's, some psychiatrists announced that some children (their patients)
complained about satanic ritual abuse, in nursery schools or even in their own family. These
cases often led to police inquiries and a lawsuit. By the end of the 80's, there were thousands
of cases of so-called ritual child abuse. But the people accused were never condemned and the
existence of a satanic plot had never been proved. In fact, most often these children, according
to Introvigne, had been influenced by their psychiatrists who believed in a satanic conspiracy,
and so either invented their stories, or in most of the cases, probably added some satanic
elements and practises to real non-satanic abuses. Introvigne however, mentioned that it
might have been a phantasm for some pedophiles to use satanic symbols (as described in
stories of survivors) in child abuse.
The satanic panic lost its credibilty in 1989, when the CSER (Committee for the
Scientific Examination of Religion) published a report that totally discredited the existence of
a satanic conspiracy, and discredited the scientific competences of the people that believed in
it. But even if every serious scholars have denied the existence of the conspiracy, the
american society has nevertheless been marked by these rumors and by the descriptions of the
Satanists and their rituals.
One must here see the difference between the satanic conspiracy and "savage
Satanism": the conspiracy was supposedly an well-organized group of adult worshipping the
Devil (usually the Devil from the Bible) and abusing and sacrificing children. On the other
hand, "savage Satanism" is a form of Satanism practised by revolted teenagers. The existence
of such (small) groups is indisputable.
LaVey has hardly never been accused to be part of the international conspiracy (during
the 80's, he did what he could to contradict these rumors), but has often been accused to
1 David Frankfurter, Evil Incarnate, Rumours of Demonic Conspiracy and Satanic Abuse in History,
Princeton University Press, Princeton New-Jersey, 2006. p.198-202 and p.221-222.
2 Introvigne, op. cit., pp.310-366.

29
seduce teenagers and incite them to violence. It is a fact that there exists in America and in
Europe many groups of teenagers wearing dark clothes, long black hair and make-up and
calling themselves Satanists. For Frankfurter, in contemporary Euro-American cultures,
religious morality can often be seen as "an oppressive force in everyday life and a rejectable
option", while there also exists a "freedom to develop publicly deviant subcultures". To shock,
some teenagers adopt radical symbolic clothing, accoutrements and behaviour that suggest
morbidness, and form so-called satanic groups. Those teenagers that enact such images do so
because of their social conditions: usually they are marginal, they are "youth conscious of
their own deviance in the local community", because they experienced it either in their school,
family or sexual life1.
It is not surprising that a marginalized teenager who is searching for an identity could
be seduced by Satanism. By becoming a Satanist, he can supposedly gain power and
membership to a group that is the elite (as promises LaVey). Introvigne explains that an
adolescent generally learns about Satanism by the medias like TV, cinema and music. While
cinema can give them taste for morbidness and horror, some rock bands define themselves as
Satanists. These rock bands, not unlike TV, newspapers and especially the internet can
provide them with information on organized Satanism. It is then not difficult for them to find
further information about the satanic ideology on the internet or by purchasing LaVey's books
(in the US you can find them for less than $10 in every big book-store). Some of them even
try to reproduce rituals at home or in cemeteries (those groups often gather in cemeteries),
often with the uses of drugs and sometimes with the ceremony degenerating into an orgy.
Many times such groups have been accused to commit acts of vandalism (on churches eg.) or
even crimes. These crimes have often been imputed to their satanic beliefs (especially by
religion), although it is always very difficult to know whether the motive is purely "religious",
or whether it is something else (due to other factors such as drugs' traffic)2.
However, one must admit that LaVey never directly incited to break the law (he
invites to respect the law), moreover, most of the individuals or small groups have no contact
with the "official" satanic organizations. But on the other hand, psychological studies about
youth's Satanism conclude that LaVey's social Darwinism and denial of moral codes can have
an impact on young disoriented teenagers3. Introvigne also adds that about five thousands of
teenagers in America and about the same number in Europe belong to these groups.
For Frankfurter, who tries to analyse the phenomenon, there is no doubt that these
adolescents hear or have heard rumours about satanic conspiracy and witness(ed) the terror it
can engender to certain people. And so when they perform "Satanism" in public ("perform"
here means behave and be dressed in a way that denotes Satanism) they provoke reactions of
fear, disgust and repulsion. These reactions are "enjoyed by the group as a source of power"
(power to be able to produce them at will). For the believers in a satanic conspiracy, those
groups and the acts of vandalism and crimes they exceptionally committed confirm the
existence and the dangerousity of a satanic plot.
What is amazing is that the teenagers unconsciously play with this obsessive fear of a
conspiracy and with the border of what is acceptable in their society. They indeed feed the
rumours and signs "on which the Satanism panic are based". "They seek to be visually what
society fears the most". In that aspect, their behaviour and accoutrements are directly linked to
the social myths of satanic conspiracy in the dominant culture. That is to say that they try to
embody the myth4 (to be more frightful), and thus they parody the fears of their society. As
1 Frankfurter, op. cit., p.198-200.
2 Introvigne, op. cit, p.355-358.
3 Introvigne, op. cit, p.356.
4 However that doesn't make the myth come true.

30
Frankfurter summaries: "They derive both power and group fulfilment from enacting the
starkest cultural notions of evil"1.
The organized satanic movements such as the Church of Satan use the same tool,
maybe at a lower scale (LaVey invites to respect the law and his formula for The Church of
Satan was 9 parts social respectability and 1 part outrage), to get recognition; that is to say to
be feared and respected. In addition, the fact that LaVey had been accused to have an evil
influence, made him seem even more frightful in the eye of people. According to Frankfurter,
the stratagem of these groups shows that some people in the society have understood that "the
myths have great power, great danger, even an oppressiveness, and that one can play with the
symbols, imaginatively and theatrically, if one is willing to accept some ostracism"2.
Anton LaVey: the Father of Lies?
As we saw in the previous chapters, the Church of Satan's first goal today is to
promote their "philosophy", that they grant for serious. But on the other side, the Church of
Satan cannot be "reduced" only to its "philosophy": there something theatrical in LaVey and
his followers' behavior as Satanists, that cannot be ignored in our study.
Throughout his life, LaVey has
indeed always been closely connected
to the show business' world. As we
saw, when he was 16 LaVey left home
to worked in a circus. There he formed
long-time friendships with clown for
example. During this period, he also
got familiar with the "big cats".
After the circus he worked as a
musician in clubs and bar in San
Francisco. In his biography, Blanche
Barton relates how LaVey met with
Marilyn Monroe who worked as a
stripper in the "Mayans", a night-club
in Los Angeles where LaVey worked
as a musician. They supposedly had a
short relationship and even lived
together during a few weeks.
However, the journalist Lawrence
Wright, who inquiried into LaVey's
life, proved that LaVey
1 Frankfurter, op. cit. p.198-202 and p.221-222.
2 Frankfurter, op. cit., p.222.
Image: LaVey (on the right) and his friends from the circus: Lou Jacobs, the clown, and Jimmy Amstrong,
the midget.

31
propably never met Marilyn Monroe: Marilyn's agent (questionned by Wright) had never
heard about LaVey; Wright also proved that in fact neither LaVey nor Marilyn ever worked in
that night club at that time...etc1.
However it is sure that LaVey has had
many relationships with people from the show
business. For example Kenneth Anger who,
more than being a member of the Church of
Satan, even made a film about the Devil:
Invocation of my demon brother (1969), into
which LaVey played the role of Satan.
Jayne Mansfield's involvement with the
Church of Satan is also undeniable. LaVey and
Mansfield kept in touch until her death in June
1967. Her fame brought a lot of success to the
Church. As we can see on the picture, LaVey
knew how to tickle the journalists!
The Satanists got also publicity when
Polanski's Rosemary's Baby was released in
1968. The movie contains a few allusions to
the Church of Satan: in the movie the Satanists declare 1966 as year one of the reign of the
Devil, and yelled "Hail Satan". Both
are of course allusions to the Church
of Satan. LaVey claimed to have
been requested by the productors as a
consultant and even to have played
the role of Satan2. It certainly
contributed to the success of the
Church of Satan with the media.
Finally we can consider the
involvement of Sammy Davis Jr. and
of the rock star Marilyn Manson, who
were both famous members of the
Church of Satan. Marilyn Manson was
even given the title of Priest of Satan.
Considering LaVey's close
connection to the world of the show
business it is not surprising to find in
the rituals and the ceremonies of the
Church of Satan a sort of theatricalism.
During the first years of the Church,
LaVey performed "sensational"
ceremonies that were aimed to shock
and to get publicity.
1 Introvigne, op. cit. pp.259-260.
2 It is affirmed by lots of articles about LaVey, but the name of LaVey never appears in the casting's list nor
as a consultant.
Images: Anton LaVey, disguised in Satan and posing with Jayne Mansfield ; Marilyn Manson and Anton
LaVey in the Black House, in 1994 ; the first Satanic wedding in the ritual's chamber of the Black House

32
Into these, LaVey did not hesitate to put on a
desguise: horns, a sword...etc. These ceremonies were
parodies of christian ceremonies: LaVey performed a
satanic wedding, satanic funerals, and baptized his little
girl, Zeena, in the name of Satan: "With her soft blond
hair and engaging smile, she captivated reporters with
the image of such an angelic child being dedicated to the
Devil". The ceremony was aimed to "glorify her natural
instincts and intensify her lust for life". "Christian's
organizations were outraged at the spectacle" as reports
Blanche Barton, but "there was little they could do" at
that time1.
More than just by these
ceremonies, the journalists were
also attracted by LaVey's unsual
way of living. His house for
example was famous, because all
black-painted. LaVey also kept a
lion as a house-pet, Togare. No
doubts that it contributed to his
reputation of a black magician and Satanist.
1 Barton, op. cit. p. 89-91.
Images: Anton and Zeena during her satanic bapstism (in the ritual chamber) ; Edward Olsen's Satanic funerals:
the man in the back is Kenneth Anger ; The Black House of 6114 California Street ; LaVey and his house-pet
lion Togare.

33
Thus, as LaVey summarized it, the Church of Satan was supposed to shock
(moderately) and "smash all concepts of what a church should be. This was a temple of
indulgence instead of a temple of abstinence (...). We [especially himself] didn't want it to be
an unforgiving, unwelcoming place, but a place where you could go to have fun" 1.
But LaVey wasn't probably content about his reputation, and so contributed in his
biographies to create a kind of legend about his life. LaVey's two biographies2 have indeed
been revised by LaVey himself; moreover the author of the second one was LaVey's last
partner, Blanche Barton! So of course we cannot trust their objectivity.
Into Barton's book The secret life of a Satanist, we can read many surprising stories
about LaVey's life before the creation of the Church of Satan, and some anecdotes about his
life ulteriorly. For example Barton claims that the newborn LaVey bore a kind of small tail,
due to a deformity of his last vertebra. This deformation supposedly disapeared a few years
later.
Barton also recounts how LaVey put curses on different people. For example when
Jayne Mansfield and her attorney and friend Sam Brody were killed in a car accident
everybody agreed to say that Brody hated LaVey and some rumours said that LaVey had
cursed Brody, giving his word that he was going to die within a year. When asked, LaVey
confirmed the rumours. Barton explains it in her book: Brody had supposedly touched and
broken some material used for curses and destruction rituals, and that incident caused the
Devil's malediction.
As another example, Barton writes that in 1969 LaVey was invited by Lou Gordon to
appear on his "hot television show in Detroit" 3. During the show, "Gordon ridiculed LaVey's
odd beliefs". Back in San Francisco LaVey wrotes "a formal curse on blood-red Church of
Satan stationary and sent it to Mr. Gordon, who read it on his next broadcast, laughing and
scoffing. Gordon died within a year".
Some people indeed consider LaVey the most dangerous man on earth: that is due of
course to his activity as High Priest of the Church of Satan, but also to his natural charisma,
and to his fictitious life, who both contributed to his reputation. In his autobiography4, the
rock star Marilyn Manson writes:
"All the power LaVey wielded he gained through fear—the public's fear of a word:
Satan. By telling people he was a Satanist, LaVey became Satan in their eyes—which is not
unlike my attitude toward becoming a rock star."
As we have seen in this chapter, LaVey fed people's fears and played the role of the
Black Pope, in a way that, as Manson emphasizes, evokes that one which is used in the show
business' world. That contributed a lot to his fame. But it also gave some arguments to his
detractors, who have accused him to be an impostor.
1 Blanche Barton, op. cit. p.89
2 Burton H. Wolf, The Devil's Avenger. A biography of Anton Szandor LaVey, Pyramid Books, New York,
1974. (now out of print) ; Blanche Barton, op. cit.
3 Blanche Barton, op. cit, p.197
4 Marilyn Manson (with Neil Strauss), op. cit. p.165-168.

34
Conclusion
As a conclusion we ask ourselves the question, who was really Anton Szandor LaVey?
The New Yorker's journalist Lawrence Wright declared about him:
"Quand il est question d'Anton LaVey, il y a trois possibilités. La plus probable, c'est
qu'il soit un faussaire complet. Il est possible aussi qu'il soit un psychotique tourmenté par de
grandes illusions. La possibilité la plus inquiétante, toutefois, c'est qu'il soit vraiment le
diable incarné — peut-être sans même le savoir." 1
LaVey's character is indeed ambiguous, as this statement makes it clear. As a
personnal conclusion I am going to give my opinion about him. I think that LaVey was
intelligent enough to use people fear to his own interest, so yes in a way he was a
manipulator. But I would not totally agree with someone who would pretend that he is just an
impostor, for two reasons.
The first one is that it is amazing to notice that ironically LaVey precisely admired
figures such as Basil Zaharoff and Cagliostro: "impostors" who knew how to manipulate
people and how to take advantage of their superstitions. LaVey added that these two (and
especially their conducts) were really satanic! That is to say that in LaVey's eye, manipulation
and falsehood are somehow part of what makes someone be satanic.
Secondly, the question of being an impostor is a non-sense if we consider that anyway
his organization has a Bible, a charismatic figure as leader and a tradition. For this reason we
cannot simply dismiss LaVey as an impostor. Furthermore his movement has also some
importance because, as Introvigne writes, LaVey is, with very few exceptions, at the origin of
all the modern satanic organizations. He adds that these would probably not exist without
him.
One of my professor once asked me the question: is the Church of Satan coherent? He
meant coherent with what can be expected from a Church dedicated to the Devil. But the
problem is that it necessarily depends on our vision of the Devil. If we consider the traditional
image of the Devil : the notion of coherence would then be related to the way the Church of
Satan opposes (by definition) to the established Church. Then the answer would be no, in the
sense that the Church of Satan reproduces all the working schemes of the Christian Church.
But as I have repeated many times in my study, the image of Satan is not dogmatic in popular
imagery.
So instead of asking the question of its "coherence", I will rather briefly talk about the
image of Satan carried by LaVey. Which is a more relevant question in regard to his
importance today concerning the new satanic groups. Doing so I am going to synthesize what
I have been doing all throughout my study.
From a general point of view, the Church of Satan can be looked at as an "indicator"
of the "popular perception" of the Devil: the fact that the existence of a satanic Church has
been accepted in the american "modern" society shows that the fears inspired by the Devil
have regressed in our century. In my opinion the character of Satan has lost some of his
"powers" in our modern times: he doesn't only represents pure evil, but more and more He
shows positive characteristics, such as sexual freedom...etc.
1 Lawrence Wright, Saint & Sinners, Alfred A. Knopf, New York, 1993, p.121.

35
Nevertheless Satan as pure evil of course sill exists for some part of the population. To
the other he has been replaced in his role by figures such as Adolf Hitler. That is to say that
the image of the Devil is ambiguous today.
LaVey has played with this ambiguity and has founded his Church upon it. This is the
reason why it is difficult to "classify" LaVey's Church of Satan: LaVey used the fear still
inspired by the word Satan, that is to say the "darker" connotation of the term. But on the
other side, in his "philosophy" Satan doesn't seem so terrible, and finally his Church thrives as
a rather sympathic and entertaining organization
Finally, in my opinion it is very difficult to conclude about LaVey's real personality,
because he had certainly never solved this ambiguity about himself. But the fact that he kept
the same convictions until his death shows that if he were not somehow a psychotic, he was
then really a perseverant fraud!

36
Bibliography
Main books:
Aquino Micheal A., The Church of Satan, private edition, fifth edition, 2002.
http://www.xeper.org/maquino/nm/COS.pdf
Barton Blanche, The secret life of a Satanist, the authorized biography of Anton LaVey, Feral
House, Los Angeles, 1990.
Frankfurter David, Evil Incarnate, Rumours of Demonic Conspiracy and Satanic Abuse in
History, Princeton University Press, Princeton New-Jersey, 2006.
Huysmans J. K., Là-Bas, Editions Plon, Paris, 1908.
Introvigne Massimo, Enquête sur le satanisme, Satanistes et antisatanistes du XVIIe siècle à
nos jours, Paris, Bibliothèque de l'Hermétisme, 1997.
LaVey Anton Szandor, The Satanic Bible, Avon Books, New York, 1969.
Muchembled Robert, Une histoire du Diable, XIIe-XXe siècle, Editions du Seuil, 2000.
Other books:
Crowley Aleister, The Law is for All. An Extended Commentary on "The Book of the Law",
2nd ed., Falcon Press, Phoenix (Arizona), 1986.
Crowley Aleister, Magick, Book 4, Sangreal, Dallas, 1972.
Crowley Aleister, Magick, in theory and in practice, Castle Books, New York.
Freud Sigmund, Essais de psychanalyse appliquée, Une névrose démoniaque au XVIIe siècle,
Gallimard, 1952.
Manson Marilyn (with Neil Strauss), The long hard road out of hell, Plexus, London, 1998.
The Bible, New International Version (BR), on the program BibleWork 5.
Articles:
Anger Kenneth, in Encyclopedia Britanica 2004.
Boulware Jack, Has the Church of Satan Gone to Hell?, in SF-weekly, 1998-06-17.
Crété Liliane, Satan, l'ange qui a mal tourné, http://www.historia.presse.fr/somm_them.php3.

37
Crowley Aleister, in Encyclopedia Britanica 2004.
Devil, in the Fausset's Bible Dictionary on the program BibleWork 5.
Gilmore Peter H., Satanism: the feared religion, Church of Satan's official website.
Harrington Walt, Anton LaVey, America's Satanic Master of Devils, Magic, Music and
Madness, in The Washington Post Magazine, February 23nd, 1986.
Johnson Bob, Dinner with the devil, in High Society, august 1994.
LaVey Anton, The most powerful religion, on the Church of Satan's website.
Lewis James R., Who serves Satan? A Demographic and Ideological Profile, in Marburg
Journal of Religion, volume 6, N°2, June 2001.
http://web.uni-marburg.de/religionswissenschaft/journal/mjr/lewis2.html
Lewis James R., Diabolical Authority: Anton LaVey, The Satanic Bible and the Satanist
"Tradition", in Marburg Journal of Religion, volume 7, N°1, September 2002.
http://web.uni-marburg.de/religionswissenschaft/journal/mjr/lewis3.html
Muchembled Robert, Diable!, in Historia thématique, n°98, Le Diable. De l'ange déchu à
l'axe du mal Paris, novembre-décembre 2005.
Rand Ayn, in Encyclopedia Britanica 2004.
Satan, in the Fausset's Bible Dictionary on the program BibleWork 5.
Satan, in the ISBE Bible Dictionary on the program BibleWork 5.
Satanist's Daughter To Keep the `Faith', Famed devil-worshiper died last week, in San-
Francisco Chronicles, Saturday, November 8, 1997.
Websites:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aleister_Crowley
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Book_of_the_Law
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magick_%28Book_4%29
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magick
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/San_Fransisco
http://www.churchofsatan.com/home.html (Church of Satan's official website)
http://www.churchofsatan.com/home.html

38
→ theory-practise: The Nine Satanic Sins ; The Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth ;
Pentagonal Revisionism: a five point program.
Videos and radio's interviews:
http://www.cbc.ca/thehour/video.php?mode=w&save=1&id=1034
CBC, the Hour, Interviews of Peter H. Gilmore by George Stroumboulopoulos, June the
6th, 2006
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fw6qPVZ5lmE&mode=related&search=
An interview of LaVey (by who?).
http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=Peter+Gilmore&search=Search
TheResistanceManifesto.com, Interview of Peter Gilmore by John Conner.
Images:
Aquino Micheal A., The Church of Satan, private edition, fifth edition, 2002.
http://www.xeper.org/maquino/nm/COS.pdf
Barton Blanche, The secret life of a Satanist, the authorized biography of Anton LaVey, Feral
House, Los Angeles, 1990.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_H._Gilmore
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradise_lost
Johnson Bob, Dinner with the devil, in High Society, august 1994.

39
Thanks:
Thanks to Christelle for the loan of her documents on the history of Satanism.
Thanks to my mother for having read some parts of my work and for her advices for
my conclusion
Special thanks to Sue for having read my work and corrected my english mistakes
Special thanks to Sébastien Graber for having chosen to direct my work, for his
interest and for his advices
Special thanks to Youri Volokhine for his worthy recommendations and the loan of
his books and articles
Special thanks to my father for his readings of some part of my work, for his critics,
for the loan of his books
