Charging an Enochian Tablet
Date: 27 Dec 93
From: Josh Norton
To: Fir
Subj: Charging a tablet
Fi> Any generic advice on how one might properly charge a Tablet? I Fi> suppose I could look to your
book Enochian Temples on how you charged Fi> the Temple for an example of what is involved?
Hmmm. As you know, I tend to take a minimalist approach to things Enochian -- elaborate ceremony
seems to be gilding the lily, to me. <G> You can pretty this up with any sort of ceremony you deem
appropriate.
It doesn't take a great deal to charge one of the Tablets -- simply vibrating the names in its presence, or
meditating on it, is often enough for it to pick up some charge.
Here's the steps I'd use for a serious charging:
1. Sit or stand with the Tablet in front of you.
2. Imagine that you are the Enochian God. See yourself as a pure creative deity, standing entirely outside
the realms of creation. Vibrate the First Call, and as you do so, imagine that you are gathering all primal
energies of the Empyrean together to do your bidding. (Note that all the Calls are spoken by this deity,
and that whenever you use them, you are effectively acting as the deity.)
3. Vibrate the Call of the Element in question several times. As you do, imagine the forces previously
called being transformed into that particular element, at the same time increasing in power.
4. Gather the power into yourself, and focus your concentration on the Tablet.
5. Vibrate the second Call, imagining as you do that it is causing a magickal "containment grid" to form
over the Tablet, with the grid following the lines of the Tablet's 12-by-13 grid. (This step sometimes
produces some very weird mental effects -- skip it if it seems too much for you in practice.)
6. Vibrate each of the macrocosmic names (i.e., 3 Names, King, Seniors) several times each. As you do
each, project the power you have gathered into the appropriate squares of the containment grid. _See_ the
power filling up the squares and becoming fixed there, so that the Tablet vibrates with the force of the
names. Repeat this as often as necessary for each name, until you get a sense of the power of each name
being solidly anchored.
7. On different days, repeat these steps for each of the Lesser Angles, substituting the Call appropriate to
the L.A. in step 3, and the L.A. names in step 6. _Don't_ invoke the macrocosmic names when charging
the Lesser Angles; think of each as a self-contained unit.
That's all there is to it.
If you're using a copy of the Great Table instead of individual Tablets, I would save the Black Cross for
last. Get each element's section charged first, and then bind them together with the Tablet of Union
names.
Charging a Tablet
http://w3.one.net/~browe/papers/charging.htm [11/3/2001 5:58:58 PM]
