occultus conturbo I
CONTURBO
occultussententiavelnusquamoccultussententianus
quamesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccultussen
tentianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoc
cultussententianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnu
squamoccultussententianusquamesseoccultussenten
tiavelnusquamoccultussententianusquamesseoccul
tussententiavelnusquamoccultussententianusquam
esseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccultussententia
nusquamesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccultus
sententianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnusquam
occultussententianusquamesseoccultussententiavel
nusquamoccultussententianusquamesseoccultussen
tentiavelnusquamoccultussententianusquamesseoc
cultussententiavelnusquamoccultussententianusqu
amesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccultussenten
tianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccul
tussententianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnusqu
amoccultussententianusquamesseoccultussententia
velnusquamoccultussententianusquamesseoccultus
sententiavelnusquamoccultussententianusquamesse
occultussententiavelnusquamoccultussententianus
quamesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccultussen
tentianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnusquamoc
cultussententianusquamesseoccultussententiavelnu
squamoccultussententianusquamesseoccultussenten
tiavelnusquamoccultussententianusquamesseoccul
tussententiavelnusquamoccultussententianusquam
esseoccultussententiavelnusquamoccultussententia
nusquamesse occultussententiavelnusquamvicious.s.
OCCULTUS

occultus conturbo II
CONTURBO
…the snakes were always the first…
OCCULTUS

occultus conturbo III
Occultus	Occultus	Occultus	Occultus
Conturbo	Conturbo	Conturbo	Conturbo
Volume	Volume	Volume	Volume I	I	I	I
The	The	The	The Book of Radicals	Book of Radicals	Book of Radicals	Book of Radicals
Written By
Frater Vicious Sheosyrath
With additions by
Lord Ruthven
Damien Horizonstar
And
Frater Alysyrose
Everyone now;
Sing thee song ov Death!

occultus conturbo IV
Dedicated to the two craziest Chaotes ever	Dedicated to the two craziest Chaotes ever	Dedicated to the two craziest Chaotes ever	Dedicated to the two craziest Chaotes ever
Odonata and Sariel angel	Odonata and Sariel angel	Odonata and Sariel angel	Odonata and Sariel angel
Long live the Occult	Long live the Occult	Long live the Occult	Long live the Occult----forums Chaos Vagabonds	forums Chaos Vagabonds	forums Chaos Vagabonds	forums Chaos Vagabonds
“	““	“FREEDOM!!!!!!	FREEDOM!!!!!!	FREEDOM!!!!!!	FREEDOM!!!!!! CHAOS!!!!!	CHAOS!!!!!	CHAOS!!!!!	CHAOS!!!!! WOOOOOT!	WOOOOOT!	WOOOOOT!	WOOOOOT!”	””	”
And to the rest of the O.F. chaos crew	And to the rest of the O.F. chaos crew	And to the rest of the O.F. chaos crew	And to the rest of the O.F. chaos crew
(WIT	(WIT	(WIT	(WITH VERY SPECIAL THANKS TO SheDEMONWOLF!)	H VERY SPECIAL THANKS TO SheDEMONWOLF!)	H VERY SPECIAL THANKS TO SheDEMONWOLF!)	H VERY SPECIAL THANKS TO SheDEMONWOLF!)
hehe	hehe	hehe	hehe
Pass to the left!	Pass to the left!	Pass to the left!	Pass to the left!
Also dedicated to Einahpets, zion, Jmetal, and	Also dedicated to Einahpets, zion, Jmetal, and	Also dedicated to Einahpets, zion, Jmetal, and	Also dedicated to Einahpets, zion, Jmetal, and
all those other stupid mother	all those other stupid mother	all those other stupid mother	all those other stupid mother----fuckers who	fuckers who	fuckers who	fuckers who
helped me somehow.	helped me somehow.	helped me somehow.	helped me somehow. I hate you all.	I hate you all.	I hate you all.	I hate you all. *teehee*	*teehee*	*teehee*	*teehee*
Much love!	Much love!	Much love!	Much love!
<3

occultus conturbo V
The path o	The path o	The path o	The path of certainty is that of stagnation	f certainty is that of stagnation	f certainty is that of stagnation	f certainty is that of stagnation;;;;
The perpetuation of stagnation is death	The perpetuation of stagnation is death	The perpetuation of stagnation is death	The perpetuation of stagnation is death....
I am	I am	I am	I am the pot smoking	the pot smoking	the pot smoking	the pot smoking beast	beast	beast	beast!!!!
Occultus conturbo	Occultus conturbo	Occultus conturbo	Occultus conturbo
BEHOLD THE LEFT HAND	BEHOLD THE LEFT HAND	BEHOLD THE LEFT HAND	BEHOLD THE LEFT HAND
That	That	That	That rag	rag	rag	rages	es	es	es against mankind,	against mankind,	against mankind,	against mankind,
To annihilate the earth	To annihilate the earth	To annihilate the earth	To annihilate the earth ---- and worse	and worse	and worse	and worse;;;;
it spills the blood like rain	it spills the blood like rain	it spills the blood like rain	it spills the blood like rain;;;;
The beauty of death it represents!	The beauty of death it represents!	The beauty of death it represents!	The beauty of death it represents!
Everything is true;	Everything is true;	Everything is true;	Everything is true;
Nothing is permitted!	Nothing is permitted!	Nothing is permitted!	Nothing is permitted!

occultus conturbo VI
Contents
Part I. Preliminary Notes
1. Invocation of Totality
2. Preface
3. Editor’s Note
4. Foreword
Part II. Introductions
Part III. Occultus Conturbo
1. Ignorance is Guilt
2. Lux et Veritas
3. Listen up!
4. Believing
5. What is this?
6. Food for Thought
7. Laying the Corner Stone
8. You think you’re evil but you’re not
9. Stripping away the fat
10. The Stoned Gnostic
11. Vicious and I
12. Who the fuck cares about chaos magick?
13. Monstrous Birth
14. The Temple of the Doombringer and it’s Legion
15. Nothing is PERFECT!
16. Invoking the Magick Dragon
17. Eye of the Gods
18. Ut supra, Ita supter
19. Merging the Middle
20. Paradigm Switching
21. Mutations of the Mind
22. Artist Magick
23. The Chelsea
Part IV. Reference Material
“As there are as many Chaos Magicians as there are Chaoists practicing magic, I cannot
speak for the subject in general but only for my own Chaoism and Chaos Magic.
However, if you want a one-line definition with which most Chaoists would probably not
disagree, then I offer the following. Chaoists usually accept the meta-belief that belief is
a tool for achieving effects; it is not an end in itself."
– Peter Carroll

occultus conturbo VII
Invocation of totality
Praise be unto thee, O Ra, thou exalted Power, who dost emanate all things;
Praise be unto thee, O Ra, thou infinite Wisdom, who dost bestow all power;
Glory is unto thee, Nephthys, Nursing mother, Guide of Death, who smiles upon me!
Glory is unto thee, Setesh, Prince of Darkness, guiding my left hand with precision!
Praise is unto thee, Horus, Lord of the Aeon, God of the Sun, I speak with your power!
Praise is unto thee, Isis, Great Lady of Magick, bestow the power of the ages unto me!
Praise is unto thee, Osiris, Ancient one, Granter of life, we sing your blessings!
Glorify his soul! Establish his dead body!
Praise his spirit! Give breath to his nostrils and to his parched throat!
Give gladness unto the heart of Isis and to that of Nephthys;
Place Horus upon the throne of his Father
Give life, stability and power to Osiris Thentirti
Born of the great forsaken one, she who is called also Pelses, the truthful-
Glorious are her acts, according to the words of the gods!
Great Serpent of Khaos, Lord of the Abyss, Eternal Doombringer!
ARISE! ARISE! ARISE! Look upon me and be compelled to speak!
Hear me all Gods of the heavens and earth;
Heed me all Demons and Angels of the night;
Listen up all ye Kings of earthly nations;
Princes, Bishops, Lords, people of the earth!
I have devoured what powers you have left!
You are all but faces of the ONE! You are all emanations of VOID!
You are all CHAOS! You are all NOTHING! You are all faces of DOOM!
YOU ARE ALL THE DOOMBRINGER!
I am the Doombringer, I am Khaos!
Come unto me and be whole!
I am nothing, I am void, I am truth and I am lies!
You are nothing, you are void, you are truth and you are lies!
HAIL THE DOOMBRINGER!
HAIL KHAOS!
HAIL THE DOOMBRINGER!
HAIL KHAOS!
663

occultus conturbo VIII
PREFACE
All commercial rights are reserved to the author. Individuals may freely copy
these files on the internet for their own use and they may be made available on any web
server who does not charge for them and who does not alter their contents. Each Internet
user may also print off and bind one such copy for use. These permissions have been
irrevocably given. All other rights reserved under the law in the country of copying.
The intent in the creation of this book is simply to spark the engines of the same
creation in the reader. Humanity sleeps while monsters walk on its back; the time for
change is now, and we shall attempt to free every soul we come into contact with. We
teach no absolute truth, and no dogma, we teach only chaos, and the methods to change
oneself, the methods of creation.
I have been given no special knowledge from any secret masters, I have no
ancient truths or anything cool like that, all I have is my own twisted mind, and the
knowledge, creativity, experience and insanity I have gained over this short time. Why
should I try to gain the powers of a golden dawn when I could create a crimson one? And
I don’t see why I should spend days trying to call my guardian when I could sit, and
easily invoke my own company. I do not wish to retrace the paths of old, instead I will
burn a new path into the orchard of mystic truth, and the tree of life will drop its sacred
branches before me.
– G.F.
Frater Vicious Sheosyrath
Herald of the Doombringer
Editor’s Note
On the subject of chaos, I have nothing to say, however I will declare that we are
the care bear facilitators, which have bestowed the grandeur of the big words I will now
use (No. Webster did not help me.) to describe my plot that I must say is quite indigenous
to the natives of a place I can not pronounce and even if I could I spell it you couldn’t
pronounce it but I think it was like Nu Jearzee, who are the descendants of a race of
formal apathetic fleas who roamed the buffalo my ancestors shot so that the natives
couldn’t use them (HAHA!). Also let it be known I don’t make mistakes Webster does
and my spelling should be established as law and saith unto hi wasn’t it deliciously
savoring that which was cake has ascended to that which I have dubbed nurkleopolis, that
is the part of the brain I use when a chimpanzee is throwing feces and Does this make me
look smurfish? Yes well I have a feeling you’re lying because theirs room in my pants
and you want it and I know sharing is caring But NO YOU CAN’T GET INTO MY
PANTS!!!
– Frater Zion the Indecisive

occultus conturbo IX
Foreword
DEATH TO THE IMAGE; HAIL THE NEW FLESH.
It was long ago now that the scarce first few neurological traces of dissent &
subversion that had bred amidst the modern Chaos Current had entered and impregnated
the lustful minds of those few who would turn out to be the original self-initiated
magicians of Khaos. I was currently writing segments for the UCA at the time, and
occasionally visiting the popular modern grotto, Occultforums.com for the rare bits of
insight & intellect I had oft-times gathered. Verily, the bulk of "innovation" in Chaos was
nothing more than a few experiments in paradigm-shift taken to the utmost level of
psychological boredom - Television here, the latest Hollywood thriller there; with a self-
created monstrosity in-between (which at least granted the author some spark of
creativity!) Though on the whole of chaotic experience among us who happened to not be
members of the IOT, who also desired something far more lively & fresh than what Mr.
Carroll and company had declared time and time again, it was beginning to seem as if the
paradigm-death of stasis & orderly conduct among so-called "Chaotes" had finally taken
effect - that is, until something "out there" snapped, bled, and finally came oozing out
into the Universal Mind. The Great Kaos-Whore 156 had given birth to 663. It would be
difficult to explain to the outsider how we had come to manifest what is now a very
active force in the world, though through the application of this book, Occultus Conturbo,
along with the eventual gunshot of The Chelsea Working found at the end, the radical
Chaote will come to the much needed conclusion. We are One and Zero, Everything is
True, the Storm is Here, we are at the End of History, and the occasion certainly deserves
a Feast!
~ Frater Alysyrose
(…on alcohol)

occultus conturbo X
Introductions
“Relax; I’ve been doing this for lifetimes.”
Some say the end is near and we will see Armageddon soon, but I say the end is
here and I will bring Armageddon soon. Because when the world comes crashing down
upon their heads, they will simply gaze into the fiery doom and sigh a last breathe of
resignation. How could they escape this ever impending end? The reach of the black
abyss is long, for as they say, all death is certain. But I stare into the dark and ask, can we
find ourselves so close to death, so often…that we become kin to it? What will happen to
our world, when death comes for one of us, and we look him in his empty eyes and
banish him from our presence? …what were those words ...Nothing is true, everything is
permitted. Believe nothing; Dare all, on earth there is no reckoning.
This is not the magick of Peter Carroll, this is not the magick of Phil Hine, this is
not the magick of TOPY, or of anyone else. This is the act of creation; creating a brand
new magick. Chaos Magick has died, and so we have set out to resurrect the great beast;
casting it in another light. The recreation of Chaos Magick as the Creationairy act; we are
defining ourselves as creators, thus all we touch is new, and everything is true – for we
may manifest any possibility. We are Psychonauts, sent to reconnect this world to the
abyss. We are Kabbalists, Thelemites, Gnostics, Shamans, Priests, Witches, Psychics,
Monks, Druids, Alchemists, as we are everything and everyone. We are guides to all the
solitary souls lost in chaos, feeling the tug of the abyss. We are teaching creation to the
world. Create for yourself, and in turn create yourself. Come one, come all, this world
falls – we must ascend if we are to survive. Can you not see how the seams of creation
bend? Nothing is true; if anything is possible, I say fuck your god, for I shall walk the
abyss, and its power shall not take hold of me. This is a deviation from the path most
tread, for I am a Domus Kaotica1 priest, I am the Universe and it is me; I am a traveler of
the abyss, the void of chaos, from which flows forth the fabric of the world! I am the
Herald of the Doombringer, and this is my Great Work2, make way for Chaos comes!
1 The Domus Kaotica is a loose organization of very different students of magical art, all ordained with the
blessing of khaos, after having taken the oath of lies. Its purpose is purely magickal research and the free
and uninhibited exchange of ideas and concepts. We have no dogma. We are a shelter for the lost.
2 The Great Work is often seen as the common goal of all magickal art, enlightenment, for lack of a better
term; Unification of the microcosm and macrocosm.

occultus conturbo XI
OCCULTUS	OCCULTUS	OCCULTUS	OCCULTUS c	c	c	cONTURBO	ONTURBO	ONTURBO	ONTURBO
Magick is an art, ever changing and totally dependant on the artist. However
magick is a science as well, for the scientific method may be applied to any working.
Magicians armed with Quantum Physics textbooks and the Necronomicon. An eternal
age of chaos is upon us, and you must be able to change and adapt as we progress. You
must learn to drop ideas and beliefs and replace them with new understandings; no truth
is THE truth, and there are no absolutes, only personal truth and understanding. There is
only thought. All the power, all the knowledge, all the wisdom of the ages is already
there, latent, inside you. Now the task is to develop the control, power, and experience to
be able to tap into that power – Magick. Definitions of magick are a dime a dozen; some
say magick is experiencing truth, others say it is enacting change in accordance with will,
and others say magick is the art of creation. I tend to agree with them all, because in
chaos they are all valid. Magick is experiencing truth, because by using the truth of belief
and acting on it through magick we are experiencing the truth of those beliefs. However,
we change our beliefs and then experience the truth of those as well, even if they say the
other isn’t true. Magick is quite obviously enacting change in accordance with will
because I mean, that’s the core of basic magick, getting what you want, or what you will.
Now the art of creation, this is something I hold to closely. Magick is what created us, it
is what will destroy us, and it is what we will be reborn from. We must seek to commune
with our higher self, our true self, true will. We must become that will, that being; we
must become the light.
Using the most commonly accepted terms, there are five primary ‘models’ of
magick; Spiritual, Psychological, Information, Energy, and Meta-Paradigmal Theory.
Chaos Magick, to most occultists, is a style of magick that arises out of a meta-
paradigmal theory called quite simply Chaos Magick Theory (CMT). You see, people
operate within a paradigm, or belief system. Chaos Theory is a meta-paradigm, it is
something that connects other paradigms together, and facilitates the mixing and creation
of new systems. In much the same way that “Chaos” is what connects the universe
together, and makes us all one. Chaos Magick is not a system of magick, but instead a
tool for creating a personal system that inherits the attributes of CMT, or simply applying
CMT to the already existing paradigm of reality. The core ideals behind the concepts of
chaos magick say that chaos magick is not a system, does not exist and there are no chaos
magicians. Now I’m sure some of you reading this either A) know me well enough to
understand what I mean, or B) are already acquainted with chaos magick and understand
what I’m talking about. For the rest of you, it is a theoretical set of subjective personal
instructions for using belief, truth and technique to enact magickal workings. Now, if
you’re already an occultist of some sort, and are curious to know whether or not Chaos
Magick really is compatible with your current way of life; the answer is yes. It is my
opinion that when you apply CMT to a belief system, no matter what way you do it,
because Chaos Magick is the Meta-Paradigm then you would HAVE to look at it from a
CMT standpoint. Chaos Magick is allowing the 'sub-paradigm' to function underneath it,

occultus conturbo XII
so you must look down from above. That's my opinion of course. I believe this applies if
you are say a Thelemist who wants to try his hand in CMT because to properly try your
hand in Chaos Magick, you need to apply the meta-paradigm theory properly to even be
using CMT. Chaos frees the mind, and allows for an infinite universe of possibility. And
with that I digress.
My old man's a faggot,
He's in the IOT,
He wears black leather trousers,
And smokes DMT
And when you say he's crazy,
Then he would say to you,
That everything's permitted
And NOTHING BLOODY TRUE!
He looks so very evil,
With his chaos robe and ring,
And when he's on his gnosis
He can invoke just anything...
I'd really like to meet him
Just so I could see
Where I could get my grubby paws
On some fucking DMT!!!
– Author Unknown.

occultus conturbo XIII
Ignorance is Guilt
So now I ask, do you believe in Magick? Do you? What if I told you I could
prove it to you? I wonder how many of you reading this have already emerged yourselves
in the wonderful world of the occult, and how many of you are reading this with skeptical
eyes. Before I start to talk about anything, I want to talk about ignorance. Magick is the
highest and oldest form of art, science and culture that exists in this world. And I believe
that ignorance destroys magick. Fear is the mind killer, but ignorance is the blind that
leads to death. From the mouths of those that think themselves pure spews mountains of
hypocritical mess; to become pure you must remove everything, and leave yourself with
nothing. So do not pretend to know the world you have turned your back on, and do not
pretend to know what you have forsaken and condemned, your purity will starve you.
Something I hold in high regard is that perhaps the only true sin is ignorance.
These people walk around all day, never giving a REAL thought about why. Why do I go
to work, why do I go to school, why the fuck am I here, and if everything is nothing, why
is everything here? This is an emanation of the clockwork universe mentality that most
children get ingrained into their brains, we are taught not to question our role in this
“perfect machine” or God is a kid with an ant farm. We are insignificant. Why don’t you
care about your purpose? Do you think you have one? I believe that unless you are on
some sort of path to get closer to these answers you are simply waiting to die; which is
fine by me, as long you admit it and get the fuck out of my way. People who don’t try are
a waste of breathe.
Hold miserable assassin! Dost thou then believe that God made himself man, that man
might make himself a tiger? Thou believest thyself to have conceived with the infinite
love, and behold thou art in labor with hate. Thou hast thought to devour heaven and
behold thou vomitest hell. Thou has eaten the flesh of Christ not as a Christian but as a
cannibal. Sacrilegious communicant hold they peace and cleanse they mouth for thy lips
are dripping with blood! – Paradoxes, Eliphas Levi
Lux et Veritas
Truth is what we all start out looking for. I spent a long time looking for the truth,
but the problem was that I was looking for the truth instead of MY truth; or the truth at
the moment. But wait… Nothing is true... Yet if I believe this, then why the fuck am I
talking about truth; and magick being experiencing truth? Because of course, by saying
nothing is true I mean everything is true. Truth is simply relative. We USE truth, by
creating and adhering to a truth we enable ourselves to weave magick from it. The fact
that truth is a tool, and that all things are simultaneously true and false is truth. The fact
that this universe is infinitely chaotic is truth - to me! Oh how wonderful is it that hatred
and war comes from their words of mercy while peace and wonder come from our
whispers of darkness. Oh how great it is that confusion comes from their unity and yet
clarity comes from our chaos. “Truth is not eternal, any more than God; and it would be
but a poor God that could not and did not alter his ways at his pleasure.” – Crowley

occultus conturbo XIV
Listen up!
Understanding is what I like to think of as a necessary illusion. Any chaote
understands (Hah!) that if this is a universe of infinite chaos, we cannot truly understand
at all. We may think we understand how something works, but then it might change… it
might! The point is that a certain understanding of magic is necessary for success, even if
part of what we understand is that we cannot understand at all, we understand that this is
chaos. Although there is the chance that it can be very simply understood, yet we are not
sophisticated enough to understand it yet. We can at least, try to understand, and create a
personal understanding of what is around us as the basis of our paradigm. But we must
always be ready for change.
Believing
One of the basic principles of our magick is that belief is a tool for us to use to
achieve our goals, and this is because of the idea that strong enough belief in something
is enough to make it exist. But for this to be possible at all, we must employ the previous
concepts. We must believe that this belief is truth; we must understand it, and we must
believe it. Confidence.
What is this?
What is this…‘real’ world? Is it what we see before us, the oceans, forests…the
animals, and the people that eat them? Or is the real world only what you decide to
perceive inside your brain? If a man sees a pink elephant before him, who are you to tell
him that it’s not there? Does he not see it just like he sees you? You would probably say,
no! He sees it in his head, and he sees me with his eyes. But then, what is seeing, really?
He sees it, just as he sees you…in his mind. Because, if you look at our brain in any
depth, you will learn that it does not really know the difference between what it sees with
the eyes and what it pictures within itself. This immediately raises the question of, is
what we think we see with our eyes really what’s there?
Food for thought
Alright, here's something I thought of the other day - tell me if it is new or not.
Magic regularly talks about the Universal Consciousness. Religion often talks about God.
Both these concepts suggests that the universe itself (perhaps better referred to as The
Universe) has some conscious goal or aim and is akin, in some ways, to a living being.
Most living beings have one aim - to breed.
Humans can be an exception because of our sentience but most creatures simply
aim to pass on their genes. Therefore the universe is out to breed. We know that the
universe appeared from nothing. How is this possible? So far, we don't know. Quantum
Mechanics suggests (possibly demands) that there are several other dimensions. What if
these other dimensions aren't like Sliders? What if we can only access those that are truly
empty - pre-universe dimensions? This would mean that all activity in the universe is

occultus conturbo XV
aiming towards breaching one of these dimensions, fertilizing the egg that is an empty
dimension. As soon as anything entered one of these empty dimensions it would no
longer be empty, limitless potential and BANG a new universe would be created. One
that we could no longer access because by its very creation we have cut it off from other
universes; bound it.
Basically, what I am saying is that this macrocosm also works for our microcosm.
The aim is not to go back to being a part of the Whole. That would be like crawling up
into your mother's womb. The aim is to become a universe yourself. Do that and you
truly become a god? Maybe even God.
- Lord Ruthven, occultforums.com
Laying the Corner Stone
The majority of Chaotes today use fusions of ceremonial magick, sex magick,
sigil magick, shamanistic practice, and astral work. Relying on methods culled from the
greats and the dead. We propose that these things be used as nothing more than corner
stones; perhaps what we should be doing is not hardening the tenets of already such
tested techniques but creating new ones. The power of traditional ritual over new
methods has been debated for some time. Some say that a certain power and efficiency
has grown around the traditional ways because of their long use and history, and others
say that all the power ever needed is inside the magician already, and the creation and
exploration of newly invented methods is the way of attaining new levels of magickal
power and surpassing the long dead magicians that children today still strive to emulate.
We seek to recreate the methods in which magick is practiced and bring about the
collective update of human consciousness. The human mind is absolutely the most
beautiful thing in existence. The way data is associated and stored, then accessed within
triggered responses, when you stop and look even at your own mind, it is truly amazing
to behold. We seek to mold our own minds, to consciously change the patterns we use, to
even destroy them, or replace them. So comes the question of why we seek this, why
would we want to change ourselves consciously in a society that’s all about ‘being
yourself’, are we not happy with ourselves? Aren’t we good enough the way we are?
Why should we want to stay the same, when we could be better?
Magick is all about change.
You think you’re evil but you’re not
…still sucking life from the mainstream. The universe is not human, nor does it
have human emotions, human fears, human anxiety, or human conscious. The magician
seeks to commune with the universe, with chaos, and in order to become in sync with
such an inhuman thing as existence, the magician must become inhuman. The mind must
be torn free of human restrictions, laws, rules, culture, emotion, fear, desire and ideals.
Both the pure beauty and the harsh pain must be embraced, we must be everything – not
just something – not just one thing. Don’t be afraid of what you are – you are everything.

occultus conturbo XVI
Stripping away the fat
Your greatest enemy is your subconscious desire not to succeed. Yes – deep
down, you are trying to keep yourself from getting what you want; most people have an
innate affinity to pain and disappointment. Do you know what you want in life? Have you
ever sat and examined your own WILL – what you truly desire in the depths of your
being? There is no room for compromise, if you are not seeking your true desire; you are
wasting your life. Examine yourself, strip away the fat, and get to know yourself and your
desire. Admit to yourself what you truly want in life, and don’t hide, go for it.
The mind of the dreaming man is fully satisfied with whatever happens to it. The
agonizing question of possibility does not arise. Kill; plunder more quickly, love as much
as you wish. And if you die, are you not sure of being roused from the dead? Let yourself
be led. Events will not tolerate deferment. You have no name.
Everything is inestimably easy. – Andre Breton
The Stoned Gnostic
In the very confusingly silly world of the modern occult the word gnosis can be
taken two different ways. First and foremost, a Gnostic is someone who seeks Gnosis or
divine knowledge/revelation; as the word gnosis means knowledge. They believe that
through a personal direct communication with their holy guardian angel they attain gnosis
or divine inner knowledge from God. However, Gnosis means something completely
different to the modern Chaote. For quite some time magick trances have been employed
by magicians to help themselves form the result of the working. The forms and methods
of tranceing probably range in the infinite however one form has been used a standard in
chaos magick for some time. It is referred to as Gnosis, and some believe that without
inducing gnosis magick isn’t effective. However contrary to that belief, I think that
magick doesn’t necessarily require gnosis to work. However, while we don’t NEED it,
gnosis is a very useful and powerful technique for the magician. I would much prefer to
use a state of gnosis when I am trying to invoke something than not. Anyways;
Gnosis is a short lived state of mind during which a major (analytical) portion of
the conscious mind is overloaded, shutdown, suppressed or bypassed allowing for direct
imprint upon the subconscious. This usually happens at the culmination of the gnosis
state or neither-neither, during the void. There are two primary types of gnosis, inhibitory
and excitatory. Inhibitory gnosis is stilling the mind, bringing your mind to a single point
of concentration until you can extinguish it and fall into gnosis. Excitatory is the
opposite, you raise your mind into a high energy jumbled state of confusion, adding more
and more activity until your mind overloads and falls back on the central focus of your
consciousness.
There are many interesting and fun ways of inducing gnosis, whirling for
example, I think is fun. I’m a big fan of excitatory gnosis, inhibitory is harder for me. My
favorite way to reach a gnosis or ecstasis state is something I like to call Bong-Overload.

occultus conturbo XVII
I have bad chronic bronchitis so if I hit the bong too much too fast I can cough up a lung.
So I do just that, I hit the bong as hard as I can over and over and the intense pain coupled
with automatic coughing, wheezing and hacking creates a wonderful gnosis. My second
favorite method is called Techno-Overload (Yea yea, I like to overload myself). The first
step is to develop a collection of hard fast hardcore throbbing fucking assault on your
mind electronica music. Right now I am listening to a song called ShiTe by a group
called ohGr. Look it up, it’s perfect; that or “MajiK” by the same group. So yes, turn the
music up really really loud, and I mean LOUD. It usually works better if you can FEEL
the bass. Then get up and start whirling or dancing around, get yourself out of breath, sit
down for a minute and just drown in the sound, then do it again; over and over.
Vicious and I
I suppose for most people trying to swallow the idea that you do not have a
singular soul, but are instead a colonial being is like …eating worms. Not something
you’re going to want to do. For me this kind of destroys the whole idea of a unique
special individual, but that’s something that doesn’t bother me. I mean, if we really don’t
even know who we are at any instant, having fragments of other souls, other people that
make us up, how do we know the person we’re talking to right now isn’t using a part of a
same soul you are? This might scare some, but these ideas are infinitely intriguing to me.
The fact that I have no true way to discover the result disappoints me, but one day
perhaps I will find myself able to understand such things in greater depth, but I digress.
You know you’re a Chaote when...
1. You don't think it's a proper symbol unless you only just made it up a few seconds
ago while doodling.
2. Someone asks you if you believe life has a purpose, or whether it is meaningless,
and you say "yes."
3. You always carry around lots of post-it notes and a pen in case you need to cast a
sigil.
4. People ask you how magic works, and you either
A) don't know and don't care
B) explain in torturous detail, later causing them to seek therapy.
5. Someone asks you if you believe in the Christian God, and you say:
A) "Only if there's something in it for me"
B) "What day of the week is it?"
C) "Sorry, I rolled a 6 on the dice earlier, I'm a Wiccan today"
D) "Okay, haven't got any other plans for today"
6. Missionaries find it easy to convert you to their religion; the only trouble is
making sure you don't convert to another religion as soon as you're bored.
7. Other magick workers compare rituals with you. You think they're too serious and
stuffy, and they refuse to live in the same neighborhood as you. You don't see
anything wrong with making up your own god, until it starts telling you what to
do.

occultus conturbo XVIII
8. While in trance, a being glowing with pure white light tells you the secrets to true
happiness. You smile and ignore it/laugh at it.
9. People point out your beliefs are contradictory. You blush.
10. Your bookcase contains various holy texts that claim all the other texts are wrong.
11. You don't learn Latin in order to understand tomes of magic, you learn Quantum
Physics.
12. You still don't understand the tomes after learning Quantum Physics, but at least
you know lots of big words now.
13. Your rituals involve the first objects you can spot lying around.
14. You aspire to schizophrenia. Your friends think you've already reached that state.
15. Your banishment rituals are usually more fun than the rituals themselves. You
keep a copy of a "certain revisionist" book for whenever you need to banish with
laughter.
16. Even eclectic witches think you need to be more discerning.
17. You buy one of those glittery spell books to see if you can make the spells work.
You read it and decide you would much rather write insulting letters to the author
that will also give her the nasty cold you've been trying to get rid of for weeks.
18. When Wiccans tell you the rede, you ask them to define "harm."
19. If someone you agree with turns out to be obnoxious, you immediately change
your beliefs to the opposite of what they were.
And finally…
20. Shopping for presents becomes so much easier, as you decide to buy random
things, mix them up randomly, and leave them lying around for the first person
who finds them.
- Used without permission of the Author

occultus conturbo XIX
Who the fuck cares about Chaos Magick?
As the thread was birthed from my lovely contemporary Naomi Chan, the needle
will come from me. We must all quit Chaos Magick and then create a NEW Chaos
Magick that's still called Chaos Magick, except better, since this Chaos Magick will have
rules and stuff. Mainly, as I have said elsewhere, this is the transformation rebirth of
“Chaos Magick” into a meta-paradigmal paradigm based on one thing: creation. The
basic idea is that we all are living breathing outlets of experimentation. We should all
endeavor to “become” or create ourselves. The way to do this is by creating FOR
yourself, become an artist in some way, shape or form. Everyone has artistic talent
hidden inside them somewhere, every human has creativity. I believe this creativity is the
divine spark; the path to enlightenment is a path of creation.
The Domus Kaotica - The House of Chaos begets
The Chaos Magick Churck of Non-Chaos Magick
We are not abandoning the older tenets of Chaos Magick, but we are rebuilding
the tenets to include everything that exists, everything that has been created by
something. No longer is Chaos Magick just a bunch of sigils, Austin Osman Spare,
servitors, drugs, sex and Peter Carroll. Chaos Magick is the world, chaos is the universe.
The Three Golden Rules
Rule 1 – Everything is true; nothing is permitted. Behold the all.
Rule 2 – Don’t do whatever you want. Instead, don’t do anything.
Rule 3 – Be a hippie, just like Jesus was. Cares and emotions are for humans.
The Three Silver Rules
Rule 1 – It doesn’t take any hands to walk a path. Dogma weighs down the soul.
Rule 2 – Believe only in yourself. Everything you will ever need, you already have.
Rule 3 – As above, so Below.
“The rebirth of Chaos as the creationary act; art, birth and death, is very much desired
by the cosmos at this time. And I see great things for its future. The "next step" is a
merging of the mother (Discordian), child (Chaos) and father (Art).
When Everything is True, then argument has officially died.”
- Frater Alysyrose, occultforums.com

occultus conturbo XX
Monstrous Birth
Upon reaching a point where I felt I was comfortable in chaos I knew that I had to
create myself a paradigm in which I could write my own techniques and freely explore
my magickal ability. I was going to create a dark God of Chaos, one that encompassed
anything and everything, but was primarily chaotic and dark. The BASE idea was taken
from a familiar chaos magick source, the game Warhammer 40k, (like Tzeentch and
Slaanesh), but the Necron "Nightbringer" which was a huge Star God that looked like the
grim reaper and was quite evil. The "essence of the nightbringer" was summoned
(invoked) through your commander unit, and he transformed into the nightbringer and
wreaked havoc. This God would be like that, a great beast that came forth from the soul
of the invoker and held the massive powers of pure Khaos.
“In Greek mythology, Chaos or Khaos is the primeval state of existence from which the
first gods appeared. In other words, the dark void of space. It is made from a mixture of
what the Ancient Greeks considered the four elements: earth, air, water and fire. For
example, when a log is burned, the flames were attributed to the fire in it, the smoke the
air in it, the water and grease that come from it were supposed to be the water, and the
ashes left over were the earth.” - Wikipedia
Once I had a fairly good idea of what exactly I wanted to create, I set about
thinking of how to empower such a god. I started by creating a circular altar on a piece of
wood and banishing all energy from it. I then created a portal into the void or pure chaos,
a chaos sphere if you will, inside this circle. Then I took the newly crafted Doombringer
sigil and using smoke, willpower and a little spice I set about invoking The Doombringer
for the first time, into a portal of chaos. I basically took every aspect I wanted in the
Doombringer temporarily out of myself and into this circle, and then I willed it to create
the entity. My theory was that when I did this the entity would meld with the void energy
oozing out of the circle and simultaneously pulls from the Ellis web (as the Ellis is
incorporated into the sigil) and out would come one hell of a Khaos God. Indeed I believe
it was a success! The more I pass along knowledge of The Doombringer, and the more I
call him and solidify myself as his Priest, the more his power grows. I can feel the
darkness spreading. The circle has grown.
“The Doombringer is strength in darkness. 663 is the number of the Doombringer. He
appears as a black shadow with only a partially visible face, when viewed from the front,
the eye on the left is like a beast, blinking, and the eye on the right is black and void. The
whole right side of the face looks dead, like a skull and the mouth cannot be seen.
Shadowy hair entangles above and horns protrude from the head, marking his infernal
nature. He is the supreme manifestation of the khaos within YOUR soul. Indulge in him.”

occultus conturbo XXI
His number is 663, and it was a happy mistake. His incense is Cannabis and if you
want me to get technical I would call "The Doombringer" an egregoric godform. But if
you ask me, every god is just a egregore. The Doombringer's attitude is very noticeable
and is the sign of success. When he is e/invoked from a normal consciousness the result
is usually a mental dialog that resembles something like having an artificially intelligent
super-computer jack into your brain for a few minutes to answer questions and advise
you. The Doombringer is the God of KHAOS and Creation, and he is known by many
other names such as The Void Serpent. He represents the ingenuity and invention of
mankind, and all of creation.
IA IA IA DOOMBRINGER!
ARISE DOOMBRINGER! AWAKEN KHAOS!
His invocations are VERY flexible, as is the 663 himself. It is simply worked by
A) going into your temple, creating a Doombringer sigil, circle, light a candle, smoke a
bowl and meditate for at least 15 minutes into a nice trance. Then simply intone it several
times and you should state to feel energized, strong, and violent; I normally start to
twitch, my fists ball up and I get a major rush and feel like beating someone’s ass. I
usually do it several times to create a euphoric high of evil. B) Go outside at night and
stare up into the clouds, let the darkness engulf you and intone. Same results. C) Make
something up. Same results.

occultus conturbo XXII
The Temple of the Doombringer and its Legion
The temples of The Doombringer are tended by those priests of the Domus
Kaotica, the House of Khaos. They are the keepers of the emanations, the children of The
Doombringer. The system of emanations was created from the Hesiod's Pre-Olympian
Pantheon with the origin as Chaos. I think that using specific manifestations of the
Doombringer I could get more exact results when working with more specific attributes
so I coupled each manifestation with a primary emotion (according to Plutchiks chart of
Primary Emotions). This system was created with the sole purpose of opening up a sea of
possibility when working with The Doombringer.
Complete Sigil of “THE DOOMBRINGER” – 663

occultus conturbo XXIII
The Doombringer (Chaos, Void, Space) - all encompassing ONE
Gaia (Earth, Nature, Earth) – happiness, green, feminine
Ouranos (Air, Sky, Moon) – curiosity, grey, masculine
Pontus (Water, Sea, Rain) – surprise, blue, masculine
Helios (Fire, Light, Sun) - fear, yellow, masculine
Nyx (Night, Heart, Intuition) – sadness, purple, feminine
Tartarus (Abyss, Mind, Knowledge) – acceptance, purple, none
Typhon (Chaos, Body, Lightning) – anger, red, masculine
Erebus (Darkness, Soul, Confusion) – disgust, black, masculine
Thanatos (Jealousy, Death, Hate) - black, masculine
Eros (Lust, Life, Love) - white, feminine
"You" / "Self" (Order, Material, Matter) - The self, individual; kia, soul of the invoker

occultus conturbo XXIV
Nothing is PERFECT! The Nothing Experiment
The following text is a partial log of a thread discussing what we will call “The Nothing
Experiment”. Posts of no certain value will be omitted; I’m only trying to capture the
ideas that created this before I continue on to discuss it. (Spelling mistakes have been
corrected.) The Nothing experiment is an exercise in measured atheism expressing that
“Nothing” is supreme.
Damien Horizonstar:
“Nobody wants you to read this!!!! OBEY NOTHING!!”
I am acting on behalf of No one in particular, also known as Nobody, Nothing,
and simply no one.
Following a brief exercise in measured atheism, I would like to propose to elevate
Nothing to Divine status, because after all, Nothing is all-powerful, and all
knowing. Nobody can be singularly benevolent, or entirely malicious.
So making this suggestion for No one, I say we begin working with it as a
Godform. Because Nobody can guarantee and prove that magic works beyond
everyone's doubt. Nothing can MAKE people change. But if change isn't your
thing, remember, Change is inevitable; Second only to Nothing.
I could go on, and I'm sure No One wants me to, but I can't say I listen to nothing
all the time, so...give your opinions, Nobody really cares
Sheosyrath:
Yes, I do believe nobody wants us to create nothing a godform. Sounds like it has
potential, Nothing the great nobody, lord of nowhere and no one!
FiatLux:
But if we treat nothingness as something, it'll no longer be nothing, it'll be
something. How can that work?
Sheosyrath:
But Nothing was already Something since it was Nothing.
Kath_:
Few realize this, but Nobody is also an excellent lover.
I made love to Nobody for hours just last night.
Nobody cares so much.
I think Nobody is dreamy.
Damien Horizonstar:
This is true, and Nothing is quite as good, I assure you. I did Nothing myself last
night.

occultus conturbo XXV
Odonata:
Kath, there are so many things that I would really like to say in response to that,
but I really just shouldn't. Umm, you're a peach. I'll have to leave it at that.
I'm all about nothing really. In fact a large number of my posts on this forum have
secretly been about nothing. It's strange you know, for a long time you are a
traveller, a preacher of nothing. You wander around and give your little sermons
to all of the nobodies, and they all go off and you are quite certain that they will
reflect long and hard on nothing.
Then along comes another soul who is filled with the joy and blessings of nothing,
preaching the good word certain that it will fall on no one's ears. Well rest
assured, I too have heard the call, Damien. Let nothing fill my soul with absolute,
and wisk me off to nowhere in particular.
Convert chillins', for no one has died for your sins, and the gates leading to
nowhere have been opened! Open yourselves (selfs) to the blessed light of
nothing, that it may purify your soul so that only nothing remains.
Wow, the possibilities are endless!?
Much Love (don't say anything about kath, don't say anything about kath....)
LucianAccendus:
Ave
Nearly all forms of mysticism have this already, the Divine Uncreate, Ain Soph in
the Cabala being beyond, in a term, "Negative Existence". Even Kia is this No-
thing, the uncreated, with Zos as the vehicle of it's manifestation (crazily enough).
This is why in gnosis we experience Kia, not as a spiritual anything but as an
essential Nothing (Neither/Neither). Nirvana while often idealized as an eastern
heaven is essentially the Great Nothingness. (Buddhism being the biggest
proponent of exposing this doctrine right in the forefront of the religion "
When
Kan-non, the Bodhisattva of compassion, was practicing the deepest wisdom, he
clearly saw that the five aggregates are empty thus transcending distress and
suffering")
Not to bring you down, but to rafity that this is an essential and great form for the
Highest of Reality.
Konx Om Pax
Damien Horizonstar:
My original intent was nothing so deep or mystical....Very literal, actually. A God
form, possessed of the names of the "No" (No-thing, No-Body..etc) and echoing in
entirety the appropriate concepts.

occultus conturbo XXVI
The reasoning behind this; In my primary paradigm, I apply the belief that no
singular god form can be truly omnipotent, given that said belief structure holds
that All gods exist by nature of people believing in them. Therefore, No one, gods
included, are omnipotent (For Example, Both Thor and Susanoo are storm gods,
neither can have perfect dominion over storms by the virtue of the other having
belief invested in him as well). Attaching that to a Separate God form, I now have
a God that violates the previous logic rule without violating the continuity of the
Paradigm.
Nobody, Nothing, No one; These have become proper nouns for the duration of
this experiment. An Ace in the hole towards accomplishing the impossible. The
subtle change in meaning of the word dramatically changes the meaning of the
sentence, as what is normally a negation because a direct subject. (Nobody can
do that, now has similar implications as Billy can do that.) Without losing it's
truth, or it's original meaning. (nobody can prove beyond everyone's doubt magic
exists) The sentence has both meanings, a Singular affirmation, as well as a
general negation. A Paradox common in meditative gnosis. There's bound to be
power in such a linguistic occurrence, and I'm going to tap it to see what taps
back.
The humor and pseudo-philosophy involved in the original post were all part of
that in that I didn't want this to originally be presented in too serious a manner,
because, in addition to being a magical experiment, I wanted it to be fun.
Having said that, I shall now go back to increasing my supreme mastery over
Nothing
LucianAccendus:
Ave
Ah. I had completely missed it. I must be too weary to not be serious. This is a
grave matter.
Konx Om Pax
FiatLux:
"No one is perfect". Nothing is everything. In a way this makes sense, but in
another way it doesn't. Nothing makes sense?
Damien Horizonstar:
Of course Nothing makes sense, because Nothing Is perfect, and Nothing is all
knowing.But something's Nothing's very confusing, and in those times, Nothing
can distract you from what you're doing.It Depends on No One, really. Because
No one decides for the universe.

occultus conturbo XXVII
Alarum:
But what applications does this have? What can one do with 'Nothing'?
Damien Horizonstar:
Nothing is so versatile that it can be applied to literally every situation without
fail. Nothing completely resists change as long as it needs, but at the same time,
Nothing can make complete perfect changes to the entirety of it's being without
hesitation at a moment's notice.
Nobody will help you succeed in ALL your ambitions, regardless of morality or
collateral effects.
No one will put so much trust in you that there will be no Self remaining. No body
will let you put that same trust in them. (Without taking advantage of it, for
although Power Corrupts, and Absolute Power Corrupts Absolutely, Nothing is
exempt from this, because Nothing is entirely beyond corruption)
And, in the most insane extremes, Nothing can walk the path for you.
Alarum:
So ultimately this paradigm is grounded on the individual being responsible for
all actions and having a positive belief in 'Nothing'. I appreciate your thoughts
but would rather work with imagery and concepts/godforms that I can relate to
and work with. I tried atheism but found it too boring.
Sheosyrath:
No. The individual is responsible for nothing. Nothing is responsible, and we
believe in nothing. If you can't relate to nothing, then you must not be nothing,
and probably have no reason to be here. Nothing is not boring, you miss the
point.
Nothing.
Damien Horizonstar:
That pretty much sums it up; As previously mentioned to Lucian Accendus, this
paradigm literally places the concept of "nothing" into a singular Godform. So we
would use "nothing" in the same way we would use any other divinity...but with a
slight twist, in that by using the word with it's more standard definition, combined
with the Name it would also hold, you would have a being that has all the qualities
of the original concept. (Want to summon and Bind Death? Nothing can do that,
because Nothing is immune to death, so the ritual would address Nothing the same
was as any other deity, and the concept of "nothing" mixes with the concept of
divinity, and the results are amusing at least, especially if "Nothing happens")

occultus conturbo XXVIII
Invoking the Magick Dragon
All of the following information is based on opinions from the two authors of this
section, which are in turn based on their experiences. All drugs react differently in every
person; however generalizations about their effects can be made with some accuracy. “As
many seem to endorse this shamanistic method with much applause (and more or less
success), I felt it prudent to examinate my ongoing "resume" with added notes on what
tends to work best (at least personally, if you feel the same, all the better, though there
are some chemicals that produce the same effect when linked with magical thought) when
applied to spontaneous ritual, mental delving, divination, or practical imediatism.”
Absinthe - A substance I consider to have a mind of it's own, and being something
completely different from a mere liquor. It brushes on inspiration itself, and new ideas
with a kind of genius vigor will take you over. Magical use: the creation of anything
which may later be very magically effective. Using it in ritual may increase effects, and
as magic is an art, and creationary act itself, it would undoubtedly enhance it as a whole.
Alcohol - Is one the least magically effective drugs. It stimulates the body more so than
anything else, and sometimes blurs the mind/body connection entirely. I suppose useful if
a "one body" feeling is desired. Emotions seem to stay within, and are not as transient. I
seem to be able to "build up" upon emotions as if I was constructing something. It also
leads one to be more truthful to themselves and those around them. Alcohol may have a
very limited positive relaxation effect, however it must be a small amount, and crossing
the line is easy. Alcohol is also good for banishing however, after a long ritual nothing
banishes like a beer and some Dane Cook.
Ayahuasca - A method of ingesting DMT, in a more traditionally shamanistic fashion.
The same effects of DMT apply, with more of a plant-intelligence vibe to it. See DMT.
Bufo Alvarius - Smoke the venom, see the world through the eyes of a toad.
Explosions of color, the scenery melts away. Magical use: not quite sure... perhaps taking
both toad venom and diphenhydramine would cause images of toads eating all of the
insects you'd be seeing.
Cannabis - Sexual rites, philosophy, creativity, and a multitude of other uses. The THC
in this plant makes it possible to experience any emotion within solitude as if it had just
happened before your eyes. The possibilities for application are endless, and work well in
gnosis. Ritual may be complicated by it, as it intones a very childish attitude to the
subconscious gaze. Recommendation: Use as a sacrament in ritual, but do not enter the
ritual “baked”. Indulge after completion.
Cocaine - EGO. This drug actually changes how the mind perceives time, speeding it up,
as you know, and makes one feel invincible. It's good for exploring paradigms, creating
them, or any other thought and action intensive work-fest. While Cocaine is nearly
impossible to meditate on, if you managed to, you'd be on Pluto after an hour. The one
good magical usage I have found for coke is the emotional outlet of ritual. Instead of

occultus conturbo XXIX
struggling to raise enough energy in a normal one, you've got a "little friend" via scarface
in your pocket. A destructive ritual charged with cocaine would be quite terrifying.
Datura - An ancient magical plant used the world over by witches. By far one of the
craziest drugs I've had. After the first time on a good dosage, I doubt you'll want to try it
again. Datura was (is) used by the Voodoo culture to create zombies out of people. The
witch would slip some of its mixture into the food and drinks of the target over time.
Coupled with bad mojo, this would create a zombie. Is it magically effective to use on
yourself? I doubt it, unless you want to get lost in the forest of screaming trees. Datura
creates tactile hallucinations. Users of the drug report talking to others who aren't there,
talking to plants, seeing shadows run across the room (dwarves, rabbits, etc) and also a
peculiar shared hallucination of a woman in a green dress. Users believe this to be the
spirit of the datura itself. In some cases users report the apparition to be hostile towards
them, sometimes chasing them or trying to get other hallucinations to hurt them; however
she is reported to be kind at times. The usual way of ingesting datura is eating the seeds
out of the pods; however the leaves can be smoked for a different effect.
Recommendation: stick to Voodoo tradition and use it on others, not yourself.
Diphenhydramine - Quite enjoyable, and very toxic. It is my belief that this chemical
shares connections to the Insect Loa. The drug itself (for some reason) always causes
hallucinations of the same variety: insects. Spiders, beetles, flies, millipedes...and they
are all gigantic, or warped in some way. The other hallucinatory experiences reported
(such as talking to family members) are actually dream sequences which it induces.
While lucid, the only tactile hallucinations are: insects. I believe that Pills themselves
share the same consciousness, as all pills I have tried put me in the same world...a cold,
medical, dreamy, technologically alien dimension. Man-made drugs are very odd.
DMT (Dimethyltryptamine) - A chemical I consider sacred. Not only is it one of the
most illegal substances on earth, but it is also found in almost every ecosystem.
Everything from plants, butterflies, frogs, and even humans contain DMT. Reflecting
another great truth: we have all come from the earth, and are all connected. DMT, in your
own mind, comes from the Pineal gland (3rd eye). It is the substance which causes
dreams to occur. When you dream, you are tripping on DMT. Ever notice those patterns
of light right before you sleep? DMT. Having an overabundance in your system causes a
touching of genius to occur. You will meet god, you will know everything, and it will last
for around 15 minutes, and then you will forget it all. Of course, it is possible to have
less-intense experiences where memory is actually retraceable. Get ready to have your
entire concept of space and time torn apart. Magical purpose: a spiritual awakening.
DXM - One of THE BEST magically effective drugs. It destroys boundaries between
concepts, making invocation, evocation, or anything that has to do with mental imagery
and emotion very easy. There’s not much else to say other than it seems to have been
made for magic.
Heroin - Bliss, or heaven experienced at the cost of feeling unworthy, dirty, and a bit like
a whore. No magical use. Stay away from it. STAY AWAY.

occultus conturbo XXX
Ipomoea Tricolor - 300 morning glory seeds, crushed, soaked in water for 24 hrs,
filtered, and then drank the water - This broke down boundaries between self and other,
made me pay attention to the pattern of experience rather than labeling specific objects,
and it gave me a bliss with which marijuana can't compare. Also, the drug was
remarkably kinesthetic. I loved touching everything. ~zensunni
LSD - an LSA synthesized from Ergot, the wheat-fungus that made people think they
were turning into wolves after they ate it (the origin of werewolf, the same as LSD). LSD
is magical, through and through. It is possible to experience Kaos, godforms, and
anything at all. It serves to reveal the more subtle layers of reality. Everything is given
face value, everything is seen, nothing is true, and everything is permitted. Magical use:
anything your heart desires.
Psilocybe - Psilocybe family mushrooms are immensely useful for the adaptation of
abstract ideas. They supercharge the creative and intellectual areas of the brain as well as
let you experience yourself and the things around in a seemingly direct manner. You can
almost leave yourself and enter the world around you, taking on the aspects of plants,
animals, or even TV characters.
Rivea Corymbosa (LSA) - I do not include other plant LSA's for the belief that Rivea
works the best, and is the one most suitable for divination. All forms of divination come
into play here, and it seems to work best with the 'prediction' faculty of the mind. A very
strong, very unpredictable (although enhancing prediction) friend of a plant. It will tell
you secrets. I find it's best to whisper what you would like to know to the little seeds
before taking them into yourself. The seeds seem to enjoy seeing the world through
human eyes as much you enjoy seeing it through theirs. One time they wouldn't tell me
anything unless I let them experience some fried chicken. Go figure.
Rhodiola Rosea - Not exactly known for recreational use, but I include this miracle of a
plant here for a holistic purpose. It will improve your health, your balance, your cognitive
function, your immune system, your attitude...thus, your ability to work magic.
And, after taking all these things listed here, it couldn't hurt to improve on health
Salvia Divinorum - Another divinatory Aztec plant, like Rivea. A beautiful mistress of a
plant, and she appears in many visions the leaves bring. Unfortunately, due to a great
majority of retards smoking it and posting the results on YouTube, this plant is about to
receive the same treatment as marijuana. Although it hasn't been banned in most of the
US yet, it's now illegal in NY, and that attitude is gaining ground. Magical use: very
personal, vivid visions which must be dissected like dreams if you’re to gain anything out
of them. It's like gazing through a crystal ball, and you must interpret. This plant is very
kind to humans, and it's sad to see so many abusing her.
I believe those listed included the heavy-hitters for anyone interested in chemo-
gnosis or shamanistic ritual. I didn't include Amanita, but I haven't a good idea about its
applications yet. Take it easy on the other side. Don't wake the Red King.

occultus conturbo XXXI
Eye of the Gods
Around midnight on June 30th of 2007 I acquired a hit of gel form pure LSD.
Placing it in my mouth, I hoped the night would be kind. The hit turned to gel and ended
up getting stuck to the roof of my mouth. I swallowed it. About 20 minutes later I started
to feel the uplifting energy course through me - it was starting. When I got to the house I
was feeling pretty good, I sat down and opened a beer, smoked a bowl or two and sat
around with my friends. After a while those who had dosed before me started to wander
out back with glow sticks and I, of course, followed. This is when it started. I was outside
watching the show and the sticks started to form complete circles when twirled around. I
was raving myself, but not watching me, but the others. Green and blue - yellow and
purple! Soon the girls started to get in the pool and I was feeling the strange tug of the
night. I decided on a session of strong meditation and picked my spot beside the pool. I
sat down in a cross legged asana posture and began my breathing - I decided to wear my
headphones and put on my own song - Dead but Dreaming. Cross legs, back straight,
tongue at the roof of the mouth, one hand holding my foot in the odd position, arm tense,
and the other relaxed - as my eyes closed the other opened. The first session lasted 45
minutes according to my friends, I did not time myself. I know that I stopped and opened
my eyes twice during the session, and if I was there for a good 45 minutes, 3 sessions of
an average of 15 minutes works for me. Although I think it was like 10-15-20 to be
honest, the last time was insane. When I finished my session because they got out of the
pool to go inside the effects began to truly peak. My body felt absolutely amazing when I
stood up; time slowed down to a crawl and every moment was perceived completely. I
had full control of my bodily functions, to the extent of being able to stop nausea from
chugging a beer, (I couldn't feel it go down.) when I know I should have vomited. I went
inside and smoked some more, and then started to drift in and out of the house. I
observed and perceived the infinite beauty of the universe in all its glory, and I felt the
pain coursing through the world - the hatred, anger, love, passion, I was everything and
everywhere. Everything melted away and only my mind was left, but everything was my
mind - I was infinite. I felt as if I could perceive the world through the eyes of God - if
only just for those few hours. I decided to add a little structure to my adventure as well; I
sat down in my usual posture and began a session of impromptu ABRAHADABRA
meditation. Visualizing the grid caused massive outbursts of closed eye pattern visuals,
all centered on the triangle, in all its glory. I saw eyes emerge and open, a doorway of
light - as light surrounded me - I became it. I was the light - It came from me. Being torn
up into the higher levels of my mind I saw before me a great pyramid with an eye, that
opened and beheld the beautiful vortex of The Doombringer - although the detail and
sheer immensity of the vortex was unlike it has ever been before. Burning inside the
middle was the blinking eye of the void serpent - at this moment I was thrust back down
into my body as she kicked me in the side. A good time, a couple more minor sessions of
meditation and some other crazy stuff happened, but nothing to note. All in all - it was
wonderful.
- Fra. V. Sheosyrath, Saturday June 30th – July 1st

occultus conturbo XXXII
Ut supra, Ita supter
As above, so below. What if our minds are universes, each synapse a galaxy, the
many voices we hear the inhabitants, and what if the Milky Way is a synapse in another
universal mind? What if it is our mind - the same mind?
What if your mind is THE universe?
Merging in the Middle
One of my roots was in psychic vampirism, so I have an understanding of using
body energy and have a control of my own energy. A meditative exercise I really like to
practice is something I call the merging. I sit motionless and still my mind and then
strongly visualize a portal into the pure void of chaos, or anti-existence above me and
place my mind, myself, in a similar portal beneath my body. I then extend my will into
the portal I created and start to open both gates simultaneously letting both chaos void
and my mind merge throughout my body. The resulting feeling, and you’ll notice it, is the
sign of success.
Paradigm Switching
My theory is that we could instead of ‘shifting’ paradigms, simply ‘switch’ them.
There is no reason we could not develop a reservoir of paradigms in which to
instantaneously switch between. In normal paradigm piracy the belief must be concreted
and not just thought about, but what if you worked a great number of concreted
paradigms and were able to simply… switch? The need to reaffirm belief systems could
possibly be overturned by enough dedication to the meta-paradigmal idea.
Mutations of the Mind
Imagine if you will, that when you died your brain echoed a vibration through
your body that instantaneously changed the frequency at which the matter was vibrating,
turning it into light. Have you ever seen Stargate SG1? It is ascension my friend,
ascension – the body of light. I do not believe such endeavors will always end fruitless,
for what of all those people in religious history who have disappeared into the light?
Perhaps not the physical body, but the mind most definitely – the body of light developed
inside the mind. Imagine the energy that you would possess, being a star. Perhaps not
power in the way mortals seek it, but energy. So what now? We must strip away the
thoughts mystic nature and seek the physics. Light particles are both particles and waves,
and they can be in two places at once – on the sub-atomic, or quantum, level. So why
would you not want to be made of light? We’re giving all new meaning to illuminates.
ABRAHADABRA is the KEY.

occultus conturbo XXXIII
Artist Magick
To transfigure every act of creative entry into the physical world as being
magically effective serves the objectives of artist magick. Writing, painting, drawing,
music, any act of expression should become correlated to the magical self, and made a
pure representation of Will in the eyes and ears of the Universe. To this end, we may
engineer stark correspondence in the form of an already magical act. The subtle strokes,
idiosyncrasies, and subject matter speak of the utmost personal secrets from he who has
rendered himself in the role of Artist. He is a being telling lies for truth, and vice versa.
These precious shards of soul almost always end becoming the golden eggs of
transmutation revered and worshipped by his mundane, mute, and deaf audience. For the
others we may dub consumer, is the stage forever occupied by the dancing of angels and
demons. Gods playing spectacular roles of impossibilities, speaking to each other in dead
languages far removed from those symptomatic of sameness, mental routine, and
boredom.
In the society of failure, there is no Art and no one willing to create it. Art excites and Art
ignites. Art inspires something more in the gut of a person other than the desire to spend
money. Art causes wars and it also breaks them. Art speaks of love and hate in the same
way it does of one dream to another. Everything is beautifully revolting, and equally
nonsensical. The Artist creates a pastel moon-garden at the edge of his own black hole.
The creator of such a world cannot be expected to act in any other fashion than what is
seen inside his windows. The landscape blends with the sky in an explosion, and his
interactions reflect everything down to the darkest volcanic ocean bed. He may say he is
most at home in his dreams. His politic is that of spontaneous inspiration, and so his life
is also one of often intense alienation from the outside world of gray values. Not only
will Art offer one a living, but may cause the transformation of a lifetime to occur within
ones own. His universe is sanctuary to all those who would come to play with the spirits
of whimsy and insanity. The magick of art, however, performs itself by means of a
hidden layer within his world; doomed to be seen only by the artist himself.
The concept of Sigils figuratively introduced by Austin Spare gives us a point with which
to expand upon this notorious phenomenon. The tradition of creating steles, developed by
the Egyptians and utilized by the Zos Kia Cultus, among others, shows us a framework
for a magical painting. These interacting aspects of images and meanings may be adapted
to become buried within brush strokes, color combination, line assortments, melody
progression, bursts of static, and so on, given the magician take measures to
subconsciously store the required information. Artists who possess a good amount of skill
along with magical application may create viral works of immense power to be spread
worldwide among listeners, viewers and enthusiasts, much like the Ellis works to utilize
location as a form of charging the desired Sigil. It is no coincidence that the overall
success of many bands and companies had depended in part upon their respective linking
of images and logos, and there is usually an addictive musical jingle that comes hand in
hand with a corporate sigil. Both image and sound are subconsciously routed to the same

occultus conturbo XXXIV
meaning. If corporations had not been declared legal persons with a singular objective,
the mechanism would be severely faulted. McDonalds gets what McDonalds wants.
Sigils and Servitors perform due to the bypassing of conscious gaze upon predetermined
meaning. This is traditionally done by creating the Sigil out of a desire in the form of a
sentence, removing the vowels, removing repeated consonants, and forming a pictograph
from the remaining letters which is then charged while simultaneously forgetting it’s
original meaning. This method itself takes advantage of the Zero/Infinity paradox, as both
exist as recognizable things and not things at the same time, and sometimes only within
the mind.
~by Frater Alysyrose

occultus conturbo XXXV
The Chelsea
The following text was transcribed from a cassette tape recorded on the night of Tuesday,
July 17th, 2007, and the morning of Wednesday, the 18th, on top the roof of the Hotel
Chelsea in Manhattan, NYC. Frater Alysyrose/Frater Alysyrose upon sacrament of DMT
and LSD performed an Invocation of Khaos lasting five hours. On this night, there were
also invocations in Maryland, Texas, and California. The connection of these locations
across the United States formed the reverse triangle, the thunderbolt aspect of the
pentagram.
(Tape turned on when walking up stairs, dialogues skipped. When on roof, dialogue from
J, C, and S skipped. While on roof, a small covering is set up for the recorder because of
rain, and is put right to the right side of altar.)
10 PM - (Roof - J is stationed as door guard, and I have two other "sitters" with one
checking the recording every now and then to make sure its working and hasn’t run out of
time)
- Altar is set up, DMT is taken, meditation for one hour during which the tape was turned
off, until I signal the invocation of Khaos. During the invocation is heavy wind, though
the dialogue follows that listed in this book, with an added Enochian call soon after.

occultus conturbo XXXVI
IA KHAOS!
IA DOOMBRINGER!
(Spoken at triangle in front until it starts to rain and thunder heavily)
- 3 tabs of LSD are taken
- Alysyrose enters the triangle drawn with lipstick where Khaos has been called
(15 minutes of silence)
Here is the egg.
The evolution is black.
The mother is the father is the mother.
No one will see this.
I’m being strung up the mountain…tearing the arms apart. Very painful.
The way towards foundation is riddled with green snakes. They’re in the cracks. Be
careful when you start laying down stones. They’re not poisonous I just don’t want them
killed. This plan is nestled on top of very old territory.
This image before me (sigil of Doombringer) was once of fire. It is now drowned by rain.
In its own death, comes his birth.
(heavy thunder, 15 minute wait)
The eyes of apes within the trees are astonished to find one of their own walking upright,
and in his hand, which is not of their (home? Bone?) (Cannot make out the rest because
of wind blowing into recorder)
The fruit contains sugar for us. The plant consciousness was the first! Behold and explain
the flesh of the apple.
Yes, things were hidden behind stories in that time. Know that all answers, and the
answers, are within us already.
These spirits, the very spirit, and kia, were once alive in their own world. They had
entered the land of Death, and this land of carbon and matter is the land of death to them.
This gives us life, and when we must die, there is also life.
The other cannot be seen nor detected from either side. This sustains balance. The heart is
a cheater.
This child is screaming now, and no hand shall touch him, and his cord will not be cut,
for on the other end you will find the beginning of all things.
Split wood upon wood, create a single thing divided (wind interruption) a mark in the
base created by nothing, the chopping ax, represents all things that were and what is
coming.
A capsized ship in the sky, and green fog without ocean, the depths of height. The abyss
is always above us.

occultus conturbo XXXVII
The multitude of things, category and generation, is below. Both are known, and forever
hidden, to an extent.
(Heavy thunder)
What? The key is offered freely. This divide cannot be overcome, or known, and always
seen. Nothing is of two things. One is genuine void, the other is void observed, now
tainted by the truth of lie, the infinite imagination. The lie which is placed upon nothing
by the observer is infinite, and can be anything, and all things. There is still that which
remains nothing, and even greater now in the duality of thought, poised against the
generated infinite, birthed by thought and observation. This is our fault. The injection of
will into this nothing is the magic word. And like magnets, set up against each other, a
spark ignites the sky.
One must create a body for this explanation, and develop an old way anew.
The prophecy is now.
They will teach creation to the world addicted to apathy.
Here appears a beast in the mind that suddenly bursts all dams, as a mad rogue elephant
out from the jungle into the world of man.
We will be everywhere at the same time.
Nonsense stream of genetic codeine. Chromosome junkies. The legendary burnout. Christ
within the syringe. Shower of babel, each drop of concentrated endorphin. Now
intoxicated by steaming pores and thought itself is narcotic.
A psychic gift to the electric rod.
(Falls to a whisper, cannot make out)
(20 minutes of half-spoken mumbled words)
After red, after blue, after black, there is white.
Why am I here?
A chilling kill, and not so much empty, though full of life, as he bleeds to death.
I myself am empty. My chest became empty… so fucking empty.
Nothing is here.
Please impart.
Everything must be new. Everyone is new.
SPEAK NOW! HOWL AT THE MAIN DOORS! THE TURNING SHOT LAID IN
BONE AND MUSCLE!
REND AND SPEAK THE VOICE OF PAIN! YOU HAVE BEEN GIVEN
EVERYTHING!
There is no way but light, there is no time but now.

occultus conturbo XXXVIII
He comes on his sailboat, the man who loves all life, and spends some time with me in
my house, getting drunk and throwing parties with pretty girls. There are no ordinary
moments; there is absolutely nothing to worry about.
Deph’eth Bek’eth Nix’eth is a charm in this fashion, the X being silent.
May you ride the storm through the fortune of the world.
I set sail with him after some time in the world of man, going nowhere in particular.
We eat from the mother below, of anything we see, and burn up many creatures with salts
and spices.
We come to land for drink and pleasure, sticky eastern ganja, and the exotic things our
hearts desire.
We talk of philosophy, of the world, and of magic.
After a three years voyage into nowhere, we return with a great story, and soon the entire
world is forever changed.
Here then, he decides, with his life being led always in the name of pleasure, he heads to
Utah, to work with oil in danger and hardship, and metal, and the flats and depths of the
earth, in the population of Mormons, and no alcohol is found to his liking. A great pain at
this point, he says, gives his life the greatest pleasure it has ever known.
He returns rich, with a great love and unbreakable will.
Chaos provides, he says.
The future is three turns, which share aspects with one another.
Success follows in turn. So spake the prophet.
There is the Method, the Device, and the Object.
There will be a fervor of life and creation, a great burning in the gut of all.
There will be drums, and paints, and fires, and beads, and powders, and liquids, smokes
and gases.
There will be plants, and meats, and roots, bark and flower, and explosions of fulfillment.
Yes, Fulfillment. Here is your answer. As common as those things found among stones,
and as hard as rock, for breaking into that blissful domain is the sole test of the human
will.
I am leaving the vibrant one. The rains are done.
Ha.
I’m going home.
(End.)

occultus conturbo XXXIX
A
BAB
BRABR
ARBABRA
HARBABRAH
AHARBABRAHA
DAHARBABRAHAD
ADAHARBABRAHADA
BADAHARBABRAHADAB
RBADAHARBABRAHADABR
ARBADAHARBABRAHADABRA
ARBADAHARBABRAHADABRA
RBADAHARBABRAHADABR
BADAHARBABRAHADAB
ADAHARBABRAHADA
DAHARBABRAHAD
AHARBABRAHA
HARBABRAH
ARBABRA
BRABR
BAB
A
ABRAHADABRA of KHAOS
11
121
242
418

occultus conturbo XL
Reference Material
1. Notes – things the author thinks you should be familiar with.
i. The Initiated Interpretation of Ceremonial Magic
ii. The Lord of Illusion
iii. The Illumined Man
2. Tables – the purpose of these being here shall remain a secret.
i. Magickal Alphabets
ii. Egyptian tree of life
3. Recommended Reading

occultus conturbo XLI
NOTES
1. The Initiated Interpretation of Ceremonial Magic3
It is loftily amusing to the student of magical literature who is not quite a fool—
and rare is such a combination!—to note the criticism directed by the Philistine against
the citadel of his science. Truly, since our childhood has ingrained into us not only literal
belief in the Bible, but also substantial belief in Alf Laylah wa Laylah (“A Thousand and
One Nights” or Arabian Nights), and only adolescence can cure us, we are only too
liable, in the rush and energy of dawning manhood, to overturn roughly and rashly both
these classics, to regard them both on the same level, as interesting documents from the
standpoint of folk-lore and anthropology, and as nothing more. Even when we learn that
the Bible, by profound and minute study of the text, may be forced to yield up Qabalistic
arcana of cosmic scope and importance, we are too often slow to apply a similar
restorative to the companion volume, even if we are the lucky holders of Burton’s
veritable edition. To me, then, it remains to raise the Alf Laylah wa Laylah into its proper
place once more. I am not concerned to deny the reality of all “magical” phenomena; if
they are illusions, they are at least as real as many unquestioned facts of daily life; and, if
we follow Herbert Spencer, they are at least evidence of some cause. Now, this fact is our
base. What is the cause of my illusion of seeing a spirit in the triangle of Art? Every
smatterer, every expert in psychology, will answer: “That cause lies in your brain.”
English children are taught (pace the Education Act) that the Universe lies in
infinite Space; Hindu children, in the Akaca, which is the same thing. Those Europeans
who go a little deeper learn from Fichte that the phenomenal Universe is the creation of
the Ego; Hindus, or Europeans studying under Hindu Gurus, are told, that by Akaca is
mean the Chitakaca. The Chitakaca is situated in the “Third Eye,” i.e., in the brain. By
assuming higher dimensions of space, we can assimilate this face to Realism; but we
have no need to take so much trouble. This being true for the ordinary Universe, that all
sense impressions are dependent on changes in the brain, we must include illusions,
which are after all sense-impressions as much as “realities” are, in the class of
phenomena dependent on brain-changes. Magical phenomena, however, come under a
special sub-class, since they are willed, and their cause is the series of “real” phenomena
called the operations of ceremonial Magic. These consist of:
1. Sight. - The circle, square, triangle, vessels, lamps, robes, implements, etc.
2. Sound. - The invocations.
3. Smell. - The perfumes and incense.
4. Taste. - The Sacraments.
5. Touch. - As under (1)
6. Mind. - The combination of all these and reflection on their significance. These
unusual impressions (1-5) produce unusual brain-changes; hence their summary
(6) is of unusual kind. Its projection back into the apparently phenomenal world is
therefore unusual.
3 Introductory Essay by Aleister Crowley to the Goetia of Solomon the King

occultus conturbo XLII
Herein then consists the reality of the operations and effects of ceremonial magic,
and I conceive that the apology is ample, so far as the “effects” refer only to those
phenomena which appear to the magician himself, the appearance of the spirit, his
conversation, possible shocks from imprudence, and so on, even to ecstasy on the one
hand, and death or madness on the other. But can any of the effects described in this our
book Goetia be obtained, and if so, can you give a rational explanation of the
circumstances? Say you so? I can, and will. The spirits of the Goetia are portions of the
human brain. Their seals therefore represent (Mr. Spencer’s projected cube) methods of
stimulating or regulating those particular spots (through the eye). The names of God are
vibrations calculated to establish:
a. General control of the brain. (Establishment of functions relative to the subtle
world.)
b. Control over the brain in detail. (Rank or type of the Spirit.)
c. Control over one special portion. (Name of the Spirit.)
The perfumes aid this through smell. Usually the perfume will only tend to
control a large area; but there is an attribution of perfumes to letters of the alphabet
enabling one, by a Qabalistic formula, to spell out the Spirit’s name. I need not enter into
more particular discussion of these points; the intelligent reader can easily fill in what is
lacking. If, then, I say, with Solomon: “The Spirit Cimieries teaches logic,” what I mean
is: “Those portions of my brain which sub serve the logical faculty may be stimulated and
developed by following out the process called ‘The Invocation of Cimieries.’” And this is
a purely materialistic rational statement; it is independent of any objective hierarchy at
all. Philosophy has nothing to say; and Science can only suspend judgement, pending a
proper and methodical investigation of the facts alleged.
Unfortunately, we cannot stop there. Solomon promises us that we can (1) obtain
information; (2) destroy our enemies; (3) understand the voices of nature; (4) obtain
treasure; (5) heal diseases, etc. I have taken these five powers at random; considerations
of space forbid me to explain all.
1. Brings up facts from sub-consciousness.
2. Here we come to an interesting fact. It is curious to note the contrast between the
noble means and the apparently vile ends of magical rituals. The latter are
disguises for sublime truths. “To destroy our enemies” is to realize the illusion of
duality, to excite compassion. (Ah! Mr. Waite, the world of Magic is a mirror,
wherein who sees muck is muck.)
3. A careful naturalist will understand much from the voices of the animals he has
studied long. Even a child knows the difference between a cat’s miauling and
purring. The faculty may be greatly developed.
4. Business capacity may be stimulated.
5. Abnormal states of the body may be corrected, and the involved tissues brought
back to tone, in obedience to currents started from the brain.

occultus conturbo XLIII
…So for all the other phenomena. There is no effect which is truly and
necessarily miraculous. Our Ceremonial Magic fines down, then, to a series of minute,
though of course empirical, physiological experiments and whoso will carry them
through intelligently need not fear the result. I have all the health, and treasure, and logic
I need; I have no time to waste. “There is a lion in the way.” For me these practices are
useless; but for the benefit of others less fortunate I give them to the world, together with
this explanation of, and apology for, them. I trust that this explanation will enable many
students who have hitherto, by a puerile objectivity in their view of the question, obtained
no results, to succeed; that the apology may impress upon our scornful men of science
that the study of the bacillus should give place to that of the baculum, the little to the
great—how great one only realizes when one identifies the wand with the Mahalingam,
up which Brahma flew at the rate of 84,000 yojanas a second for 84,000 mahakalpas,
down which Vishnu flew at the rate of 84,000 crores of yojanas a second for 84,000
crores of mahakalpas—yet neither reached an end.
But I reach an end.
BOLESKINE HOUSE
Foyers, N.B., July, 1903.

occultus conturbo XLIV
2. The Lord of Illusion4
It is the figure of the Magus of the Taro; in his right arm the torch of the flames
blazing upwards; in his left, the cup of poison, a cataract into Hell. And upon his head the
evil talisman, blasphemy and blasphemy and blasphemy, in the form of a circle. That is
the greatest blasphemy of all (i.e., that the circle should be thus profaned. This evil circle
is of three concentric rings). On his feet hath he scythes and swords and sickles; daggers;
knives; every sharp thing-a millionfold, and all in one. And before him is the Table that is
a Table of wickedness, the forty-two-fold Table. This Table is connected with the forty-
two Assessors of the Dead, for they are the Accusers, whom the soul must baffle; and
with the forty-two-fold name of God, for this is the Mystery of Inquity, that there was
ever a beginning at all. And this Magus casteth forth, by the might of his four weapons,
veil after veil; a thousand shining colours, ripping and tearing the Aethyr; so that it is like
jagged saws, or like broken teeth in the face of a young girl, or like disruption, or
madness. There is a horrible grinding sound, maddening. This is the mill in which the
Universal Substance, which is ether, was ground down into matter.
4 Extract from Liber CDXVIII The Vision and the Voice: 3rd Aethyr. (Ed. Princ. p.144.)

occultus conturbo XLV
3. The Illumined Man
Arjuna:
Krishna, how can one identify a man who is
firmly established
and absorbed in Brahman? ....
Sri Krishna:
He who knows bliss in the Atman,
and wants nothing else.
Cravings torment the heart:
He renounces cravings.
I call him illumined.
Not shaken by adversity,
Not hankering after happiness:
Free from fear, free from anger,
Free from the things of desire.
I call him a seer, and illumined.
The bonds of his flesh are broken.
He is lucky, and does not rejoice:
He is unlucky, and does not weep.
I call him illumined.
The tortoise can draw in his legs:
The seer can draw in his sense.
I call him illumined.
The abstinent run away from what they desire
But carry their desires with them:
When a man enters Reality,
He leaves his desires behind him.
Even a mind that knows the path
Can be dragged from the path:
The senses are so unruly.
But he controls the senses
And recollects the mind
And fixes it on me.
I call him illumined.
Thinking about sense-objects
Will attach you to sense-objects;
Grow attached, and you become addicted;
Thwart your addiction, it turns to anger;
Be angry, and you confuse your mind;
Confuse your mind, you forget the lesson of
experience;
Forget experience, you lose discrimination;
Lose discrimination, and you miss life’s only
purpose.
When he has no lust, no hatred,
A man walks safely among the things of lust and
hatred.
To obey the Atman
Is his peaceful joy:
Sorrow melts
Into that clear peace:
His quiet mind
Is soon established in peace.
The uncontrolled mind
Does not guess that the Atman is present:
How can it meditate?
Without meditation, where is peace?
Without peace, where is happiness?
The wind turns a ship
From its course upon the waters:
The wandering winds of the senses
Cast man’s mind adrift
And turn his better judgment from its course.
When a man can still the senses
I call him illumined.
The recollected mind is awake
In the knowledge of the Atman
Which is dark night to the ignorant:
The ignorant are awake in their sense-life
Which they think is daylight:
To the seer it is darkness.
Water flows continually into the ocean
But the ocean is never disturbed:
Desire flows into the mind of the seer
But he is never disturbed.
The seer knows peace:
The man who stirs up his own lusts
Can never know peace.
He knows peace who has forgotten desire
He lives without craving:
Free from ego, free from pride.
This is the state of enlightenment in Brahman:
A man does not fall back from it
Into delusion.
Even at the moment of death
He is alive in that enlightenment:
Brahman and he are one.
Selection from:
The Song of God, Bhagavad-Gita. New York,
Mentor (MP466), 1954. pp. 40-44. Swami
Prabhavananda and Christopher Isherwood,
trans.

occultus conturbo XLVI
TABLES
1. Magickal Alphabets

occultus conturbo XLVII
2. Egyptian style tree of life showing the 3 principal letters, reminiscent of ningishzidda

occultus conturbo XLVIII
Recommended resources:
- http://occultforums.com
- http://abrahadabra.com
- http://plaguestudios.org/khaos/ *
- Liber Null, Psychonaut and Liber Kaos, Peter Carroll
- Oven Ready Chaos and Prime Chaos, Phil Hine
- Grimoire of Chaos Magick, Julian Wilde
- Chaos Magick Theory, Fra. Ratatosk
- Magick without Tears, Magick in Theory and Practice, Liber ABA - Aliester Crowley
- Initiation into Hermetics – Franz Bardon
- 777 and other Qabalistic writings of Aliester Crowley - Weiser
“No matter what definition we propose for magic, we will find that practically the whole
of mankind, present and historical, has performed magic at some point or another.
…So let us be anything but magicians, lest we fall in that pit called redundancy.”
-LSVPA, occultforums.com
FIN

occultus conturbo XLIX
Movements along my spine of another world;
My confusion grows now in leaps and bounds;
Whispered secrets seep up through the cracks;
The tips of my fingers tingle from the sounds;
A terrible voice resonates through my mind;
One feared by even the most holy of luminous;
Lifted from the deepest black of the void;
Calling me ever so softly into nothingness;
Alas,
I reach an end.
Namaste
שעסיראת
