1
G E R A R D C R E M O N E N S I S
O N A S T R O N O M I C A L G E O M A N C Y .
ecause Astronomy is so transcendent and subtil an Art in itself, that
therein a man ought to have respect unto so many things before he can
attaine to true judgment thereby, because the eye of the understanding will
not pierce unto the half thereof, and few Doctors of our later time have
been found so experienced therein that they know sufficiently how to
judge thereby; Therefore I have composed this work, which I wilt have to be named,
Astronomical Geomancy; wherein, I will sufficiently teach how to judge with less labour and
study. For in this present science it is not requisite to behold neither the Ascendant, nor
the hour in a Table, as it is in Astrology.
It is expedient therefore, to make four unequal lines, by the points casually set down;
and to joyne together those points; and out of the points which are not joyned together,
which do remain in the heads of the lines, (as it is done in Geomancie) extract one figure;
and the signe of the Zodiack that answereth to that figure, put for the Ascendent, for the
words sake. If Acquisitio arise from the heads of those four Lines, let Aries be placed in the
Ascendent; if Laetitia, or the lesser Fortune put Taurus in the Ascendent; if Puer or Rubeus,
place Gemini; If Albus, Cancer; if Via, Leo; if Conjunctio or the Dragons Head, Virgo; if
Puella, Libra; if Amissio or Tristitia, Scorpio; if the Dragons Tail, Sagittary; if Populus, Cap-
ricorn; if Fortuna major, Aquary; if Carcer, then put Pisces for the Ascendent. Afterwards in
the second House, let that signe be placed which immediately succeeds the other. In the
third House the third Signe, and so place the rest in order until you come unto the end of
the Signes; and make one square figure divided into twelve equal parts, and therein place
the Signes in order, as it is in Astrology, and as you may finde them in this figure: neither
are we here to regard the * witnesses, or * Judge, or any other thing, which belongs to Geo-
mancie; but onely the sixteen Figures, that by them we may have the twelve Signes, to
which they agree; and observe the maner of the Figure as it is here placed.
Afterwards it is requisite to make four Lines by course for every Planet, by points casu-
ally pricked down; and likewise for the Dragons Head, as you have done for the Ascendent,
and divide those points by twelve; and that which remaineth above twelve, or the twelfth
itself, if a greater number doth not remain, retaine, and the Planet for which the projection
was made, place in that House of which the superabounding number shall be; that is, if
there remain twelve, let the Planet be placed in the twelfth House; if ten, in the tenth
House; if one, in the first House; if two, in the second House; and so of the rest. And you
ought alwayes to begin from the Sun, and afterwards from the Moon, then from Venus and
Mercury, and from Saturn, Jupiter and Mars, and the Dragons Head and Dragons Tail; but
B

2
you must alwayes take heed that you do not make a question in a rainy, cloudy, or a very
windy season, or when thou art angry, or thy minde busied with many affairs; nor for
tempters or deriders, neither that you may renew and reiterate the same Question again
under the same figure or forme; for that is error.
Questions of the first House.
If you are desirous to know concerning the life of any man whether it shall be long or
short, behold the Lord of the Ascendent, who if he be in strong Angles, it signifies long
life; in succedents, a middle age; and in cadent Houses, a short life; and if he be in strong
Angles, he signifies greater years; if in Succedents, meaner years; if in Cadents, lesser
years. The lesser years of Saturn are thirty, the meaner are forty four years, and the greater
fifty eight. The lesser years of Jupiter are twelve, the meaner years forty, and the greater
accordingly are forty seven. The lesser years of Mars are fifteen, his meane years forty, and
the greater years forty seven. The lesser years of the Sun are nineteen, his mean years forty
five, and his greater years eighty two. The lesser years of Venus are eight, her mean years

3
forty five, and her greater years eighty two. Mercury's lesser years are twenty, his mean
years forty nine, and his greater years eighty. The lesser years of the Moon are fifteen, her
mean years thirty nine, and her greater years a hundred and seven. And also look if Mars
or Saturn shall be in the first House, and the Lord of the eighth with them; and if the Sun
shall be in the eighth, the Querent shall not live: likewise if the Lord of the Ascendent
shall happen to be void of course, and Mars be in the eighth, the Querent shall not live;
but if the Sun and the Moon shall be in conjunction in the seventh House, and Venus in the
second, he shall live well.
The accidents of the nativity are likewise to be considered. If you finde Saturn or Mer-
cury in the first, * he is foolish and talkative; if it be Mars and Mercury, he will not be ser-
vile, but a wrangler and scoffer; if the Sun and Mercury, he will be a speaker of truth; and if
the Sun be in Aries, he will apply himself to learn whatsoever he shall hear; if Venus be in
the seventh, he will be luxurious; and if Saturn, Mercury and Venus be in their fall, he will
be a Sodomite; if the Sun and Venus be in the tenth, and the Moon in the first, he will be
very liberal; if Venus, Mercury and the Dragons Head be in the first, he wilt be covetous; if
the Moon and Mars be in the first, he will be subject to great bondage; and if Mars be Lord
of the nativity, he will he rich, and an evil speaker, and litigious; and if the Sun be in the
first, he will be envious, having a fair body, not very lean, nor very fat; and if Venus be in
the first, he will be white and fair; if Mercury be in the first, he will not be stable, but
alwayes in motion; but if the Moon be found there, it denotes him to have a graceful face,
brest and arms; if Saturn be there, the man will be black and filthy; if Jupiter, he will have a
round face, a fair forehead, a ruddy complexion mixt with a little white.
If you would know his office or art: if the Moon be in the seventh with Saturn, or in the
fourth, or in the tenth, or in the first, It is not good for him to build any house in a City,
nor to build a ship, neither is it good for him to be a tiller of land, or to dress vines, or
plant trees; but to be imployed about some office belonging to the water, or concerning
marriages, or to be a Post or a Messenger; neither let him apply himself much to his mas-
ter, because he shall gain no repute from him: if the Moon be in the fifth or third, it will be
good to him; in the second, eighth, sixth and twelfth, neither good nor evil.
Jupiter signifies Bishops, Prelates, Nobles, Potentates, Judges, Wise men, Merchants
and Usurers.
Mars signifies Warriors, Incendiaries, Homicides, Physitians, Barbers, Hangmen,
Gold-smiths, Cooks, furnaces, and all fireworks. And if Mars be in strong Signes, he will
be poor and die in captivity, unless he put himself in arms with some souldier or vassal.
The Sun signifieth Emperors, Kings, Princes, Nobles, Lords and Judges.
Venus signifies Queens and Ladies, Marriages, Communications, Friendship, Apothe-
caries, Taylors, and such as make Ornaments for playes, sellers of Cloth, Jesters, Vintners,
Players at dice, Whores and Robbers.
Mercury signifies Clerks, Philosophers, Astrologers, Geometricians Arithmeticians,
Latine writers, and Painters, and all subtil Artists, as well men as women, and their Arts.

4
Concerning the intention of the Querent, look unto the Signe ascending, and his Lord;
and where you finde the Lord of the Ascendent, he comes to inquire about something per-
taining to that House; and if the Sun be Lord of the Ascendent, his Question is concern-
ing fear which he is in of some man; if Venus, he enquireth of Arts, that he may know
some proper Arts, or he enquireth concerning things belonging to women. If Mercury be
Lord of the Ascendent, he seek after something that is lost, or enquireth concerning some
infirmity. If the Moon he seeketh also for something lost, or inquireth about sickness, or
some disease in his eyes. If Saturn be Lord of the Ascendent, he enquireth about some
sickness, or concerning a Prince; and keepeth silence, but hast some great grief or anguish
in his heart. If Jupiter be Lord of the Ascendent, his Question is concerning some infir-
mity, or restitution, or for some office which he desireth to have. If Mars, he enquireth for
some fear, or of an enemy, death, sickness, riches, or substance.
Questions of the second House.
If you would he informed concerning the substance of any man whether he shall be rich or
not, behold the Lord of the second, which if he shall be with a good Planet, & a good
Planet likewise in the second, he shall be rich; but if the Lord of the second be joined with
evil Planets, and an evil Planet shall be in the second, he shall be poor.
If you would know whether you shall have again a thing lent, or not, look if there be an
evil Planet in the second, and disagreeing with his Lord; then he that detaineth the thing
lent, will not willingly render back the same: But if there be a good Planet in the second,
and agreeing with his Lord, it shall easily be recovered; and if the Lord of the second, be
exalted and be evil, or if an evil Planet be with him in the second, or if the Lord of the sec-
ond, be exalted, he which keepeth the thing deposited, will not willingly restore the same,
but he shall do it whether he will or not. And if an evil Planet be in the second, it's to be
recovered: But if Mercury be in the second, so that he be his Lord, and bringeth contrari-
ety, then it shall be recovered; and if a good Planet be in the second House, he signifies
recovery, although he be the Lord thereof.
Mark therefore the concord and discord of the Planets: the Moon and Jupiter are
friends, the Moon and Mars enemies; Mercury and the Sun are friends, Mercury and Venus
enemies; Venus and Jupiter are friends, Jupiter and the Moon are enemies.
The Planets are said to be friends, when they agree in one nature and quality, as Mars
and the Sun, because both their natures is hot and dry; Venus and the Moon do agree in
cold and moisture: or when Planets do agree in substance and nature, as Jupiter and Venus
are friends: or when the House of one is the exaltation of another, or on the contrary.
Questions of the third House.
If that you desire to know, how many brethren a man hath, see the Lord of the third, and
it is to be held, that to so many Planets as he is joyned, so many brethren the Querent

5
hath; and the Masculine Planets signifie brethren, and the female Planets sisters; and note,
That Saturn and Mars, the Sun, Jupiter, & the Dragons Head, are masculine; but the Moon,
Venus and the Dragons Tail are foeminine: but Mercury is promiscuous, sometimes Mascu-
line and sometimes foeminine; he is Masculine when he is joyned to Masculine Planets, or
when he is in a masculine quarter of the Zodiacke; and he is foeminine, when he is joyned
to foeminine Planets, or when he is in a foeminine quarter of the Zodiacke.
Questions of the fourth House.
If thou wouldst know whether it be good for thee to stay in any Land, City, Village, Terri-
tory, or House, or not, behold the Lord of the Ascendent of the fourth, and of the sev-
enth; and if the Lord of the fourth be in the seventh, and be good, and the Lords of the
first and the tenth House be good, and with good Planets, then it is good for thee to con-
tinue in that place wherein thou art. And if the Lord of the seventh be with a good Planet,
and the Lord of the fourth with an evil Planet, then it is not good for thee to abide there,
because if thou dost continue there, thou shalt suffer many losses, & have evil reports
raised on thee in that Country.
But if thou wouldst know when any one that is absent will return, behold the Lord of
the Ascendent; and if you finde him in any one of the four Angles, he will return in that
year; and if he be not in an Angle, then see how far he is distant from the first Angle; for
so long he will stay, and so many years as there be Houses.
If you would be informed of the dearth or plenty of things, behold the strong Houses,
the Succedents and the Cadents; for the strong Houses signifie dearth and scarcity, the
Succedents a moderate season, neither too dear, nor too cheap, the Cadents signifie plenty
and profitableness of things. Consider also the Planets, and their places, which if they be
in strong Houses, the things which are signified by those Planets will be rare: and note,
That Saturn doth signifie fields, vines, and instruments to work in fields, and leather, and
of fruits, corn, acorns, oak-apples, and pomegranates. Jupiter hath oil, honey, silk-wormes,
cloth, wine, and grass, and things that are odoriferous. Mars signifies wine, and flesh, and
especially hogs, wars, and armour, and such things as belong thereunto, and red garments.
The Sun bath signification of wheat, and wine, purple colours, and cloth, and all things
that are assimulated unto gold, horses and birds, such as hawks and falcons. Venus doth
signifie fatness and grapes, figs and dates, fish and pastimes. Mercury hath barley, millet,
grain, money, and quicksilver. The Moon signifies oats, milk, cheese, fire and salt, cows,
rams, hens, and silver, and accordingly plenty and scarcity of them.
Questions of the fifth House.
If you would know whether a woman be with Child, or whether she will have any chil-
dren, or not, look if the Lord of the Ascendent be in the seventh, or the Lord of the fifth
in the first, or the Lord of the first in the fifth, or if the Lord of the fifth be in the seventh,

6
or if the Lord of the seventh be in the fifth, or the Moon with them; or if good Planets be
in the first, or the fifth, or with the Lord of the fifth, or * R * in Angles, she is with child,
or may have children; but if you finde none of them, but evil Planets in the same places,
she neither is with childe, neither will she have any children: and if there be both good and
evil Planets in the said places, then happily she may have children, but they will not live;
but if Cancer, Scorpio or Pisces shall be in the first or fifth House, she may have children;
but if Leo and Virgo be there, she is not with child, neither shall she ever have any children;
or if the Lord of the fifth shall be in them Houses.
And if you would know, within how many years she shall have children, look where you
finde the Lord of the fifth; for in that year she shall have issue; if he be in the first, in the
first year; if in the second, in the second year; and so you may number unto the twelfth
House. And if mean Signes be in the Ascendent, she that is with child hath twins in her
wombe, which will live, if a good Planet be in the first; and if an evil Planet, they will die;
and if there be one good and another evil, one shall live, and another die; and if a mean
Signe shall be ascending, and Mars in that Signe, the mother shall die, and not the childe;
if Saturn, both the mother and child shall die; and if the Dragons Tail be there, its possible
they will both die; but the infant shall not escape; and if the Dragons Tail be so in the first,
and the tenth House fallen: the mother shall die; likewise if Mars and the Moon, or Mars
and Saturn be in the first, seventh or tenth, the mother shall die.
Whether the party with child shall miscarry, or not. Consider if a moveable Signe be
ascending, because if it be so she will miscarry.
If you would know whether a woman shall bring forth a man-child, or a woman-child;
behold the Ascendent and his Lord, which if he be Masculine and in a Masculine Signe,
or in a Masculine quarter of the Figure, it is a male-childe; but if the Lord of the Ascen-
dent be feminine, and in a feminine Signe, or in a feminine quarter of the Circle, it will be
a woman-child; and so you shall consider also of the Moon. Consider also if more of the
Planets be in Masculine Signes, then it will be a male-childe; and if many Planets be in
feminine Signes, then it is a female childe.
And if you would know whether the child be legitimate or adulterate; see if Saturn,
Mars or the Dragons Tail be in the fifth, or with the Lord of the fifth; because if it be so it
is adulterate; bur if a good Planet shall be there, it is legitimate: and if the Lord of the first,
be in the fifth, or with his Lord, it is legitimate; and so likewise if the Lord of the fifth be
found in the first or with the Lord of the first.
If you desire to know whether rumours be true or false, see if you finde Saturn, Mars or
the Dragons Tail, in the Ascendent; because if they be so then the rumours are false; but if
you finde the Sun, Jupiter or the Dragons Head there, then they are true; and if there be
Masculine Planets in Masculine Signes, & feminine Planets in feminine Signes, then they
are true; and if both good and evil Planets be there, then they are Partly true and Partly
false; and if there be a good Signe with the Planet, is testifies the truth; and if the Planet
fall with an evil Signe, then it is false; likewise if Mercury be in the first, the news is false:
but if the Moon be in the first in a feminine signe, or joyned with the Lord of the Ascen-

7
dent in a feminine Signe, then the rumours are true; also if good Planets be in the first,
fifth or ninth, and feminine Signes, they are true; but if otherwise, they are not.
If you would know whether any one that is absent will return, and when; see the Lord
of the Ascendent; and the first, which if you finde them together, for certain he will come,
and is now beginning his journey. Likewise if the Lord of the fifth be in the first, or with
the Lord of the first, and if he be in his fall, the messenger is sick in his way; but if the
Lord of the fifth be exalted, then he cometh joyfully. And if he be in a cadent Signe, he
shall be grievously afflicted with sickness, or shall die.
If you would know if he bringeth that with him for which he went, or not, behold the
Lord of the seventh; which if he be good, he bringeth that which he sought for; and if he
be in his fall, or an evil Planet be there, be bringeth nothing with him.
Questions of the sixth House.
Whether the sick shall recover his health, or die. If the Question be concerning his sick-
ness, see if Saturn, or Mars, or the Dragons Tail be in the first, and whether his Lord be
joyned with an evil Planet, then he shall die soon. And if the Lord of the first be good, and
evil Planets be in the first with his Lord, or likewise in the first or the eighth, for certain he
will die: But if the Lord of the first be in the eighth, or with the Lord of the eighth; or the
Lord of the eighth in the first, or with the Lord of the first, there is doubt of his death.
And if evil Planets do possess the Angles, evil and destruction is threatned to the sick. But
if good Planets shall be in the first, sixth and eighth, and likewise in the Angles, and the
Lord of the first be from the eighth & his Lord, then the sick person shall live and recover
his health.
If you desire to know whether he will be cured by medicines, give the first House to the
Physitian, the tenth to the sick, the seventh to his diseases, and the fourth to the medi-
cines. If evil Planets be in the first, the Physitian shall profit him nothing; but they testifie
that this will be worse for the diseased: but the Fortunes do signifie, that he shall be prof-
itable to him. And if evil Planets do occupy the tenth House, the sick person is the cause;
for they testifie, that he himself is the cause of his own disease: but the Fortunes being
there, signifie the contrary. But if evil Planets be in the tenth House, they change the con-
dition of the sick out of one disease into another; but the Fortunes being there, do deliver
him without the help of Physitians or medicines. Also evil Planets being in the fourth, do
testifie, that the medicines do augment his grief; & the Fortunes being there, do mitigate
and heal him.
If thou wouldst know if thou shalt go unto the person and heal him; confider the place
then: for if he shall be with Saturn, Mars, or the Dragons Tail, or ' R '' with the Sun, go not
unto him; but if Jupiter, Venus or the Dragons Head be in the first or in the seventh, go, for
it will be good; and if there be the Moon with a good Planet, go, and give him physick; but
if she shall be with an evil Planet, and especially in the seventh House, then thou shalt not
go; because thou shalt profit him nothing: and if there be good Planets there, go and look

8
diligently to him, where or In what members he suffers; because Aries hath the Head, Tau-
rus the neck, Cancer the breast and lungs, Leo the heart and stomack, Virgo the belly and
intestines, Libra the reins and loyns, Scorpio the secret members, Sagittary the thighs, Cap-
ricorn the knees, Aquary the legs, and Pisces the feet.
Questions of the seventh House,
For theft, look unto the Lord of the seventh: which if he be in the first, the theft shall be
restored again; but if the Lord of the first be in the seventh, it shall be a long time sought
after, and at length shall be found: but if the Moon be in the first, or with his Lord, it shall
be found; if the Moon be in the fifth, or with the Lord of the first, or * R * in the first, it
may be found; but if the Sun and the Moon be in the fifth, and if the Lord of the eighth be
with the Lord of the first in the first, it shall be found; but if the Lord of the second be in
the eighth, it shall not be found. And if Saturn, or Mars, or the Dragons Tail be in the sec-
ond, it shall not be found, nor be altogether lost. And if the Lord of the second be in the
first, the thing that is lost shall be found; but it shall not be known from whence it came. If
the Lord of the first be in the second, it maybe found after much labour. And if the Lord
of the second be in his fall, it will never be found; but if he be exalted, is shall be found
very well: but the seventh House sheweth the thief.
But if you would know what it is that is stollen, behold the Lord of the second; which if
he be Saturn, it is lead, iron, a kettle, a trivet, a garment, or some black thing, or leather. If
he be Jupiter, then it is some white thing, as tin, silver, or mixt with white & yellow veins.
The Sun signifies gold and precious pearles. Mars signifies things belonging to the fire.
Venus signifies things belonging to women, as gloves, rings, and fair ornaments. The
Moon, beasts, such as horses, mules &c. perfumes and wars. Mercury signifies money,
books, writings, pictures, or garments of divers colours.
If you would know how many thieves there were, see the Lord of the sixth; which if he
be in the second, or with the Lord of the second, there were many thieves; and if they be
in the third, the brethren or kinsmen of the Querent have committed the theft.
If you would know whether the thief do yet remain in the Town: if they be in succedent
Houses, he is not gone far off; but if the be in cadent Houses, he is far remote.
If you desire to know towards What Country the thief is fled, see in what Signe the
Lord of the seventh is; for if he be in Aries, he is in the middle of the East parte. If in Tau-
rus, in the South towards the East. If in Gemini, in the West towards the South. If in Can-
cer, full North. If in Leo, in the East towards the North. If in Virgo, in the South towards
the West. If in Libra, full West. If in Scorpio, in the North neer the West. If in Sagittary, in
the East nigh the North. If in Capricorn, full South. If in Aquary, in the West towards the
North. And if in Pisces, In the North towards the West.
If you would know whether the thief hath carried all the things stollen away with him,
see the Lord of the seventh and the eighth; and if the Lord of the seventh be in an Angle,
he had a desire to carry away the same with him, but could not. If the Lord of the eighth

9
be in a mean House, or in a cadent House, and the Lord of the second in a strong House,
he hath carryed the theft wholly with him. And if the Lord of the seventh and the eighth
be both in cadent Houses, he neither carryed it away, nor hath it. See by the seventh who
is his companion, and what is his gain.
If you would know the descent or nobility of a man or woman, look unto the Lord of
the seventh; which if you finde him in Angles, and the Lord of the first in Succedents or
cadents, the woman is more noble then the man. But if the Lord of the Ascendent be in
an Angle, & the Lord of the seventh in a succedent or cadent House, the man is more
noble then the woman. And after the same manner thou maist judge of two companions,
or of any other persons whatsoever. And if the Lord of the seventh be in the ninth House,
he wilt take a wife out of a forreigne Country.
If you desire to know Whether an intended marriage shall take effect, or not, look to
the Ascendent and his Lord, and the Moon, for the Querent; and the seventh House, and
his Lord, for the woman. And if the Lord of the Ascendent or the Moon be joyned to the
Lord of the seventh, or be in the seventh, the marriage will be effected; or if the Lord of
the seventh be in the first, or with the Lord of the first, it will easily be brought to pass;
and the woman is more desirous thereof, then the man.
If you would know whether thy wife or friend hath any other lover or not, look if Mars
be in the seventh, so that he be not in his own House, for then she hath not any other
lover. And if Saturn be there, she loveth another; but he lieth not with her. And if the
Dragons Tail be in the seventh, he lieth with her. And if Jupiter be there, she hardly con-
taineth herself chaste. If Venus, she is merry, and much given to play and laughter, by rea-
son whereof, she may be accounted a whore, and is not so. If Mercury be in the seventh,
she had a lover, but now hath none. But if the Moon be in the seventh, she hath had no
lover as yet, but will have one, and will be common. But if the Sun or the Dragons Head be
there, she is chaste. And after the fame manner may you judge in the * ninth * concerning
friends or lovers.
If you would know which of them shall live longest, see the Lord of the first and of the
seventh, which of them shall be in the stronger and better place, or joyned to the strongest
Planets; and that person who is most free and remote from the Lord of the eighth and his
participation, to whom the Lord of his House answereth, shall live longest.
If you desire to make a society or alliance, and would know whether it shall be brought
to pass or not, or what shall happen thereupon, see if there be good Planets to the seventh
and the first: and if so, the fellowship will be made, and good will come thereof; and you
may judge is to continue so many years, months or dayes, as the Lord of the seventh hath
signification of.
If you would know when such society shall be, look what Planet is in the seventh; for if
he be good, it shall come to pass that same year: or wedlock, * R * if the Question be
thereof.
If you would know whether they will well agree, see the first and his Lord, which is the
signifier of the Querent; and the seventh House and his Lord, which is the House, of

10
companions, wives and concubines; which if they be concordant amongst themselves,
there will be peace and union between them, and they shall profit; but if the Planets be in
discord, there will be strife between them, and the society will not profit.
If you would know which of them shall gain most, see the first and his Lord, and the
seventh and his Lord, and which of them standeth best; or if they be evil, which of them
falleth: and he that falleth shall lose, and he that is exalted shall gain. Or otherwise, and
which is better, see the second and his Lord, and the eighth and his Lord; and in which
House is the better Planet, or his Lord that shall be found in the better place, or joyned
with the better Planets he shall be the greater gainer. The second House, and his Lord
signifies the dam of the Querent: and the eighth House and his Lord signifies the gain of
his fellow, or his part: and if the be both good, they shall both gain; and if both evil, they
shall both lose: and if one be good and the other evil, he whose significator is good, shall
gain; and he whose is evil, shall lose.
And if you would know if two fellows shall love one another, look if the Lords of the
first and the seventh be friends and agreeing, then they will love one to another; but if they
be enemies and disagree, then they will not.
If you desire to know who shall overcome in any cause, matter or controversie, behold
the Lords of the first and the seventh, which if they be in Angles, neither of them shall
overcome; and see which of them is joyned with an evil Planet, because he shall overcome;
and if the Planet be evil from them both, the victor shall kill the conquered; if one of them
be strong, and the other weak, and the Planet which is in the strong House do not fall, nor
hath not an evil Planet with him; and if he which is weak be not in his own House, nor in
his exaltation, nor with a good Planet, he whose Planet is in the strong House, shall over-
come; likewise he whose significator is in a mean House, shall have great fear and doubt in
his heart, because sometimes he shall hope to conquer, and otherwhiles fear to be over-
come. And note, that in a Question concerning war and kingdom, it is said that there is
more power and efficacie, or fortitude in the exaltation of a Planet, then in his House; but
in all other Questions the contrary.
If you would be informed concerning any one being that is gone to any fight, whether
he shall return safe, see the Lord of the Ascendent; if he be good, that is, with good Plan-
ets, and a good Planet in the first, he will return safe; but if the Sun be with the Lord of
the first, in any part of the Question, let him not go, because the Sun burneth him. And if
the Lord of the seventh be with a good Planet, and the Lord of the first with a good
Planet likewise, he shall have some impediment in the way; but he will not die. And if an
evil Planet be with the Lord of the first, and a good Planet in the first, IF he goeth he shall
suffer great damage, but not death; nevertheless he may be grievously wounded. And if
Saturn be in the first, or with the Lord of the first, let him not go; because some impedi-
ment will happen unto him by some man that he will meet. And if there be an evil Planet
with the Lord of the first, or Saturn be in the first, or with the Lord of the first he will be
wounded with wood or with a stone. If Mars and the Dragons Tail be in the first, or with
the Lord of the first; or if there be evil Planets in the first, or with the Lord of the first he

11
will suffer wounds or death. See likewise if there be an evil Planet in the eighth, because
then death is to be feared. And if the Sun be with the Lord of the seventh, or in the
eighth, it signifies that it is ill to go. The like judgement is of the seventh and the tenth.
And if a Question be proposed concerning the event of War, see the seventh and the
first, and their Lords: for the first House and his Lord signifies the Querent; and the sev-
enth House and his Lord the adversary. So that if there be good Planets in the first and
evil in the seventh; and if the Lord of the first and seventh be evil, the Querent shall over-
come: but if there be an evil Planet with the Lord of the first, and an evil Planet in the
first, and the Lord of the seventh good, or * R. * in the seventh, the Querent shall be over-
come, or taken, or slain. And if the Lords of them both be in the first, and there be good
Planets from the part of the first House, unto the end of the House which is the middle of
the Question, and if evil Planets do possess the other half of the Question, that is to say
from the seventh unto the end of the twelfth house, the adversary shall overcome. But if
both the Lords shall be in the Ascendent, and if they be good from the part of the first,
and evil from the part of the seventh, they shall both suffer great loss; but the Querent
shall have the better in the end. But if the Lord of the Ascendent be in the seventh, or in
his Question, it signifies fortitude of the adversary: and if the Lord of the seventh be in
the first, or in his Question, it signifies fortitude of the actor. And if the Lord of the
Ascendent be in the eighth, or with the Lord of the eighth; or the Lord of the eighth in
the first, or with the Lord of the first, it signifies the death of the Querent. And if the
Lord of the seventh be in the second, or with his Lord; or the Lord of the second in the
seventh, or with the Lord of the seventh, it signifies the death of the enemy.
If you would know whether War shall continue long or not, if mean or meanly; if the
Lords of the first and the seventh do agree, the parties shall be pacified after the War.
If thou wouldest depart from the place wherein thou art, and remove thy self to some
other place; and if thou wouldest know whether it be better for thee to stay or go: or con-
cerning two businesses, if thou desirest to know which of them is most expedient for thee
to undertake, consider the Lords of the first and the second, for those places to which thou
wouldest go, the place wherein thou art, and the gain which thou gettest there; and the
seventh, and the eighth, and their Lords, for the place to which thou wouldest go, and the
gain which thou mayst get there: and those places chuse, whose Lords are the better, or
joyned to the better Planets. Or otherwise: behold the Lord of the Ascendent and the
Moon; which if they be separated from evil Planets, and joyned to good and fortunate
Planets, it is better for thee to go from the place where thou art, then to stay there, and to
do what business soever thou hast in thy minde. And if the Lord of the Ascendent and the
Moon be separated from the Fortunes, and joyned to evil Planets, then it is not good for
thee to remove thy self, nor to do thy business. Or thus: See the Moon; and if the Planet
from which she is separated be better then that to whom she is joyned, do not remove: and
if the Planet which she is joyned to, be better then that from which she is separated, then
go.

12
Questions of the eighth House.
Concerning any man or woman, if you would know what kinde of death they shall die, fee
if Leo, Scorpio, or † R. † Mars, be in the eighth, the party shall die by a beast. And if Sat-
urn be in the eighth, or with the Lord of the eighth in Scorpio, Cancer, or Pisces, he shall
die in water. And if an evil Planet be in the eighth, or with the Lord of the eighth; or if
Mars or the Dragons Tayl be there, he shall die by fire, iron, or of a fever. And if there be a
good Planet in the eighth, or with the Lord of the eighth, he shall die a good death.
Questions of the ninth House.
Concerning long journeys, see if the Lord of the eighth have good Planets with him: and
if Saturn be in the ninth, and exalted in the tenth, so that he be not in his own House, do
not go: for thou wilt meet with many obstacles, and War. And if an evil Planet be in the
ninth, or with the Lord of the ninth, and the Lord of the ninth in his fall, he shall suffer
great damage in the way: for if he goeth by water, lie shall suffer shipwrack; and if by
Land, he shall have misfortunes, be taken, or die. If Saturn be in the ninth, or with his
Lord, go securely. And if a good Planet be in the ninth, or with the Lord of the ninth, the
way is good and secure. And if Mars be in the ninth, thou mayest not go: for thou wilt
meet with mortal enemies in the way. And if the Lord of the ninth be with an evil Planet,
or the Sun, it signifies ill: but he shall not be taken. And if the Lord of the ninth have a
good Planet neer him, he shall escape: but if evil, he shall be taken. If Venus be in the
ninth, or with the Lord of the ninth, the way will be good, because he shall have comfort
from women. And if Mercury be in the ninth, and the Lord of the ninth with good Plan-
ets, the way will be very good: and if he be with evil Planets, it will be evil. And the same
is said of the Moon, as of Mercury. If the Dragons Tayl be in the ninth, he will meet with
theeves, or some evil people. And if the Dragons Head be in the ninth, the way will be
good, because he shall be accompanied with Noble-men. And in this maner may you
judge in the third House concerning short journeys.
If you would know when the journey shall be accomplished see the Lord of the ninth,
and according to his fortitude or debility judge, because according to the place wherein he
is, is signified yeers, months, or days: and so you shall judge concerning his stay, about
what time he will come by turning the yeers of the Lord of the ninth into days; because so
many days he shall tarry, as the Planet signifies in the place where he is. Or otherwise:
weak Angles signifie a speedy journey, mean Angles a mean journey; and the Lord of the
ninth likewise, according to the place wherein he is found.
And this I say concerning his return.
If you would know whether he shall return from his journey with an imperfect voyage
or not, see if the Moon be joyned with the Lord of the first, the third, or the ninth, and the
Planet thereof be in his Fall; because if it be so, he shall return with an imperfect voyage.

13
And if the Moon be in her exaltation, the journey shall speedily be effected. And if there be
two strong Planets, and one cadent, the journey shall be made; and if one be strong, and
another in his fall, he shall retire back.
Questions of the tenth House.
If thou wouldest know whether thou shalt have any honour or benefit from a King,
Bishop, or Lord, or not, look unto the first House, and the ninth, and their Lords: and if
the Lord of the first be in the ninth, or with the Lord of the ninth, or with any other good
Planet; or if the Lord of the ninth be in the first, or with the Lord of the first, or with any
other good Planet, as Venus, Jupiter, or the Dragons Head; or if any of them be the Lord of
the ninth, or * R.* of the first, he shall receive honour and benefits from them.
And if you would know whether he shall have it in his own Country, or in a forraign
Country, look if the Lord of the ninth be in angles, then it shall be in his own Country
and if in succedents, it shall be neer; but if in cadent Houses, very far off.
Questions of the eleventh House.
If you would know when it is good to set forth a Ship to Sea, see the Ascendent; which if
it be stable, the Ship will be ponderous; but if the Lord thereof be with a good Planet, she
will sustain a great weight. And if the Ascendent be instable, and with a good Planet, the
Ship will be swift, and carry a good burden. And meanly, if the Ascendent be mean. And
after this maner may you judge concerning an Horse, if a Question be thereof.
And if any unstable Signe be ascending, and his Lord be in his exaltation, or otherwise
fortunate, and the Moon behold him with a lowring Aspect, or Sextile; let the Ship be
applied to the water, because she will be very swift. And if any evil be imposed upon her,
or that she be like to be drawn into it; then set her out when a stable Signe is ascending, or
when the Moon is in the third, fifth, eighth, ninth, or tenth house or mansion.
If you would know what winde she shall have, behold the Ascendent and his Lord,
whether he be with good or evil Planets, and in what place, and accordingly judge.
And if you would have a strong winde, spread forth your Sayls at the rising of Aquary: if
a small winde, spread your Canvas when Libra is ascending: If a moderate winde, then
direct your Sayls under Gemini.
Questions of the twelfth House.
For Imprisonment, consider the twelfth and the first; and if the Lord of the twelfth be in
the first, or with the Lord of the first, &c.
