$97.00 (USD)
By Bogdan and Giancarlo
http://www.witchcraftexposed.com
Copyright 2004 by Bogdan and Giancarlo
Owners of http://www.witchcraftexposed.com

2
“Undisclosed Spells”
This is NOT A Free eBook	This is NOT A Free eBook	This is NOT A Free eBook	This is NOT A Free eBook
Copyright © 2004 	www.witchcraftexposed.com, Bogdan and
Giancarlo. All Rights Reserved
Reproduction or translation of any part of this work by any means, electronic
or mechanical, including photocopying, beyond that permitted by the
copyright law, without the permission of the publisher is unlawful.
LEGAL DISCLAIMER NOTICE
Use of this e-book is governed by specific terms and
conditions previously made available to you and which are
completely set forth at
http://www.witchcraftexposed.com/terms.html
Any further consumption or use of this e-book by you
constitutes express acceptance of those terms and
conditions.

3
I 	N 	D 	E 	X
Creating A Wishing Well At Home……………………………………………………
A Penny For Loving……………………………………………………………………...
A Money Wishing Well Spell…………………………………………………………...
A Psychic Spell……………………………………………………………………………
A Purifications……………………………………………………………………………..
For Beauty…………………………………………………………………………………
Attraction Spell……………………………………………………………………………..
Attraction Spell (2) ………………………………………………………………………..
FOR DRVING AWAY EVIL……………………………………………………………….
TO BREAK A CURSE…………………………………………………………………….
WINDCHIMES OF PROTECTION………………………………………………………
FOR SUCCESS……………………………………………………………………………
TO CONFER WITH ONE WHO HAS PASSED AWAY……………………………….
FOR A SAFE RETURN……………………………………………………………………
BEFORE FLIGHT………………………………………………………………………….
TO BE REVENGED ON ONE WHO HAS DONE YOU HARM……………………….
RITUAL TO EMPOWER MAGICKAL POWDERS……………………………………..
A CHILD'S BIRTHDAY RITUAL………………………………………………………….
ENDANGERED SPECIES RITUAL……………………………………………………...
A PURIFICATION………………………………………………………………………….
A SPELL OF PROTECTION……………………………………………………………...
HEALING FLAMES………………………………………………………………………..
TO COMMUNICATE WITH OTHERS…………………………………………………...
TO CURE…………………………………………………………………………………...
HOME BLESSING…………………………………………………………………………
NAMING RITUAL………………………………………………………………………….
PURIFICATION RITUAL………………………………………………………………….
MONEY SPELL…………………………………………………………………………….
DEPRESSION HEALING RITUAL……………………………………………………….
A SPELL FOR WELL BEING……………………………………………………………..
THE WISHING WELL……………………………………………………………………..
THE BOTTLE SPELL……………………………………………………………………..
PROSPERITY SPELL……………………………………………………………………..
DREAM PROTECTION SPELL…………………………………………………………..
NIGHTMARE SPELLS…………………………………………………………………….
RELEASING NEGATIVE ENERGY SPELL…………………………………………….
STRENGTH SPELL……………………………………………………………………….
THREE TIMES THREE SPELL………………………………………………………….
HAPPINESS / COMFORT SPELL……………………………………………………….
SPELL FOR BULLIES…………………………………………………………………….
TO BIND A TROUBLE MAKER…………………………………………………………..
A SPELL TO BREAK THE POWERS OF A SPELL……………………………………
A MIRROR SPELL OF PROTECTION FOR THE HOME…………………………….
A SILVER SPELL………………………………………………………………………….
TO GAIN PROPHECIES………………………………………………………………….
6
7
7
8
8
9
9
10
10
10
11
11
11
12
12
12
13
15
16
17
18
18
18
18
19
20
21
22
23
23
24
24
25
25
26
26
27
27
28
28
28
29
29
30
31

4
TO RID YOURSELF OF NEGATIVES…………………………………………………..
SPELL TO HELP IN COURT CASES……………………………………………………
WICCAN PENTAGRAM RITUAL Rubric………………………………………………..
DISPELL NEGATIVE ENERGIES AROUND YOU…………………………………….
ROSE LEAF SPELL……………………………………………………………………….
RITUAL OF THE MISTS…………………………………………………………………..
RITUAL TO PROTECT AGAINST EVIL SPIRITS……………………………………...
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS AND CHILDREN (ELF MAGIK) ………………………
THIRD EYE RITUAL……………………………………………………………………….
PSYCHIC SPELL…………………………………………………………………………..
EMPOWERMENT RITUAL……………………………………………………………….
GENERAL SPELL FOR HOLDING ENERGY…………………………………………..
A SPELL TO GET RID OF UNWANTED GUESTS…………………………………….
ANTI CAR ACCIDENT SPELL……………………………………………………………
POPPET FOR REASSURANCE…………………………………………………………
To Have Lost Animals Return…………………………………………………………….
To Bring the Rain…………………………………………………………………………..
To Win a Fist Fight………………………………………………………………………..
To Guard against Slander…………………………………………………………………
To Cause One to Wither…………………………………………………………………..
House Protection Spell Bottle…………………………………………………………….
Money Spell Bottle…………………………………………………………………………
HOUSE BLESSING SPELL………………………………………………………………
BANISHMENT SPELL…………………………………………………………………….
VEXATION BOX……………………………………………………………………………
WARNING SPELL…………………………………………………………………………
To remove negative energy picked up from others…………………………………….
A Spell for Communicating……………………………………………………………….
Family Full Moon Ritual……………………………………………………………………
Waning of Financial Problems……………………………………………………………
Waxing of Financial Prosperity…………………………………………………………..
Glamour Spells…………………………………………………………………………….
Glamour Spell #2………………………………………………………………………….
House Cleansing / Blessing………………………………………………………………
Aquarius Energy Spell…………………………………………………………………….
Full Moon Spell for your Body…………………………………………………………….
Baby Blessing Ritual……………………………………………………………………….
Spell to Avert Curse………………………………………………………………………..
Spell to Find Lost Objects…………………………………………………………………
Spell to Restore Peace to an Unhappy Home………………………………………….
COURT CHARM…………………………………………………………………………...
CHARM FOR LEGAL SUCCESS………………………………………………………..
To Keep from Going to Court or for Winning in Court………………………………….
Good Luck Spell……………………………………………………………………………
Good luck spell……………………………………………………………………………..
LUCK BALL CHARM………………………………………………………………………
Fire Flower Spell…………………………………………………………………………...
Water Flower Spell…………………………………………………………………………
31
31
32
32
33
33
34
35
36
36
37
39
39
39
40
41
41
41
41
42
42
43
43
44
45
45
46
46
46
47
48
48
49
49
50
50
51
51
52
53
54
54
55
56
57
58
58
58

5
Earth Flower Spell………………………………………………………………………….
Air Flower Spell…………………………………………………………………………….
Wish Spell…………………………………………………………………………………..
Wish Spell # 2………………………………………………………………………………
Wish Spell # 3………………………………………………………………………………
Luck Spell…………………………………………………………………………………...
To Attract Money…………………………………………………………………………...
SIMPLE BANISHING SPELL……………………………………………………………..
Quickening Moon…………………………………………………………………………..
JUSTICE CHANT…………………………………………………………………………..
CHARM FOR LEGAL SUCCESS………………………………………………………..
Protection Spell…………………………………………………………………………….
FOR BEAUTIFUL SKIN…………………………………………………………………...
FOR BEAUTIFUL HAIR…………………………………………………………………...
TO LOSE WEIGHT………………………………………………………………………...
TO GAIN WEIGHT…………………………………………………………………………
FOR RESTFUL SLEEP……………………………………………………………………
TO PREVENT COLDS…………………………………………………………………….
TO BREAK A FEVER……………………………………………………………………...
TO CURE A HEADACHE…………………………………………………………………
LOVE DOLL TO WIN YOUR LOVE……………………………………………………...
58
59
59
59
59
59
59
59
60
60
61
61
61
62
62
62
63
63
64
64
64

6
SPELLS
Creating A Wishing Well At Home
The "well" should be of some natural material. A large, glazed clay flower pot (with no
drainage hole in the bottom) is ideal, or is any large bowl. It could be blue to represent
the element of water, but this isn't necessary.
Keep your wishing well in one location, perhaps in your place of magic. Move it only to
retrieve the coins. If this isn't possible, store the wishing well in some secret place,
removing it for use.
To charge your wishing well, you'll need one coin and bottled spring water (available in
most larger grocery stores). If you can't find bottled spring water, use any available
water. Place the pot or bowl on a flat surface. Pour one or two inches of water into the
well (it isn't necessary to completely fill the container) while saying:
Water bubbles in this well,
Giving birth to rite and spell.
Hold the coin in your projective hand. Visualize the wishing well as a place of untold
power, where brilliant blue light streams up from the water; where energies submerge
and emerge and where magic is made.
Say these or similar words while holding the coin:
Watery powers of the deep,
Fluidic secrets that you keep:
Wash this wishing well with power,
Charge my magic from this hour!
Remember: once the coins have been thrown into the well, you've given them to the
element of water. Leave the coins in it just as you would in an outdoor wishing well.
After using this wishing well for sometime, coins will have accumulated in it. As needed,
remove them, dry and donate to the charity of your choice. (Don't spend them to buy
yourself something, this may jeopardize both those spells that haven't yet materialized in
your life as well as future workings with your wishing well). Once you have removed the
coins, clean the well with fresh water and repeat the charging ceremony as described
above.
You can also toss other objects into the well, such as shells, rocks with magical symbols
drawn on them, or even semi-precious stones. If you decide to switch to something other

7
than coins, it's best remove any money that's already present within the well before
making the change.
Stones For Use With The Wishing Well
Beauty: Amber, Jasper, Opal
Courage: Red Agate, Bloodstone, Carnelian, Tiger's-Eye
Healing: Azurite, Calcite, Flint, Garnet, Jade, Turquoise
Love: Amethyst, Jade, Moonstone, Olivine, Pearl, Topaz
Money: Aventurine, Jade, Ruby, Tiger's-Eye
Protection: Apache Tear, Citrine, Quartz Crystal, Lapis Lazuli
After the spells have taken effect, bury the stones and recharge your well.
Your wishing well & all wishing wells - are places of power. Respecting them as such
ensures the effectiveness of your magic.
A Penny For Loving
(The use of a penny in this spell may need a bit of explanation. Older pennies are made
from copper, and copper is the metal of the planet Venus and of the element of Water,
both loving energies. That's why a penny is used here.)
To smooth the path of a rocky relationship, visualize you and your mate enjoying happy
times, giving full attention to your love. Pour this energy into the penny that you hold in
your projective hand. Then toss the penny over your shoulder into the well while saying:
Coin of the realm,
Metal of Venus,
Ensure that naught will
Come between us.
Strengthen our love
This magical day,
This is our will
And this is the way.
Note: this will be effective only when both parties are attempting to improve the
relationship.
A Money Wishing Well Spell
Hold any coin in your projective hand. Visualize yourself enjoying the fruits of prosperity.
See yourself as a more monied person. Charge the coin with this energy.
Still holding the coin, say the following:

8
Coin of the realm,
Silver and gold,
Return to me
One hundred fold.
Toss the coin into the well and continue:
I call water
To charge my spell
Now here within
This magic well.
A Psychic Spell
For best results use a silver American coin minted before 1964. These are actually
made of silver. Coins dated later than 1964 are mostly base metals covered with a thin
layer of silver, and so have less power for this purpose.
Hold the coin in your hand. Gaze into the water. Still your mind and breath deeply.
Rub the coin on your forehead, just above and between your eyes, feeling your psychic
awareness awakening from its daytime sleep.
Visualize your psychic mind blossoming like a pure, white rose, or rising as the full moon
above the horizon of your consciousness.
Then, in a quiet, dreamy voice, say the following words as you toss the coin:
Second sight,
Psychic light,
Metal of moon,
Open me soon.
Sit beside the well (or spring), look into the water and know what you would know.
A Purification Spell
To be used when feeling depressed, out of control of your life, after the breaking of a
relationship and at any other time when you feel the need.
Take four coins. Wash them just until they're sparkling clean (you may need to scrub
them with baking soda and a toothbrush). Do this before going to the well.
Stand before the well facing West. Toss a coin into the well, saying:

9
I feely give this up.
Move so that you're facing North before the well. Toss a coin into it, saying:
I freely give this up.
Now facing East before the well, toss and say:
I freely give this up.
Facing South, throw a coin into the well and say:
I freely give this up.
Your rite has ended.
(Note: it would be unwise to perform this ritual in a well actually used as a source of
drinking water.)
For Beauty
Beauty isn't in the eye of the beholder, it's a reflection of our feelings about ourselves.
When we dwell on our "defects" (no human body is perfect), we lessen our inward and
outward beauty. This ritual is designed to increase our good feelings for ourselves,
which is reflected in the image we present to others. Thus, it increases beauty. This is a
simple rite. Hold five pennies in your projective hand. Visualize yourself as a beautiful
person. Don't see yourself as your favorite movie stars, who have make-up artists,
lighting directors and cinematographers to assisted them. Visualize yourself as a loving,
open person radiating beauty. Pour this image into the pennies. Toss one into the well
while saying:
I allow myself to be beautiful.
I accept beauty.
Repeat this with the remaining four coins. It is done.
Attraction Spell
You take a red or pink candle scented oil(or perfume but oil is recommended) which is
your favorite, and you taker a piece of red construction paper, or plain white paper and
color it red, and cut out a heart. You turn out all lights and make sure your away from
anything that will cause disturbance. You light the candle (turn off the lights) put it in the
center of the paper heart, drip a couple of drops of the oil on the heart and say:
"May the corn stone of my affections be grace and goodness, and let my love know no
boundary, for the greater my love for others, so in kind will that love come back to me."

10
and that should attract love, if you want love from a certain someone, you should say
"I Love _(Name of person)_" ten times after repeating the last verse. god bless thee all.
Attraction Spell (2)
On a night when the moon is in a waning phase, write your name and the name of your
bewitched lover on the side of a white votive candle. Anoint the candle with myrrh oil,
light it, and say:
“I BURN THIS CANDLE AS A TOKEN OF THE SPELL THAT BINDS OUR
LOVE. LET THIS MAGICK NOW BE BROKEN BY THE POWERS OF THE
GODS ABOVE”
Allow the candle to burn itself out. After the leftover wax has cooled and
hardened, wrap it in a piece of white silk, tie it tightly with a white ribbon, and then
toss it into the sea or into a river.
FOR DRIVING AWAY EVIL
Demons and evil spirits could be forced to leave a person alone if the following spell was
written on parchment or paper which was to be kept close at hand at all times.
SDPNQCN
DPNQCN
PNQCN
NQCN
QCN
CN
N
TO BREAK A CURSE
Take five white candles and arrange them in a pentagram. Place a black candle, which
symbolizes the curse, in its center. The ones afflicted by the curse must speak the words
revealed here:
Evil curse that blights out lives
Be lifted now and flee
These candles' lights overcome the dark
From its grasps, set us free

11
WINDCHIMES OF PROTECTION
Arrange five white candles in the shape of a star. Lay the wind chimes in its center, to be
blessed for protection, before suspending them outside one's home. As the candles are
lit, wave your right hand over them as you speak to work the enchantment:
Wind chimes;
Spell rhymes;
Spell chimes;
Wind rhymes.
Air primes
Spell chimes;
so mote it be.
Lift the wind chimes by the string from which they will be hung. Hold them before your
face. Blow against the dangling noisemakers, visualizing their tones scattering and
driving away negativity, and hang them outside.
FOR SUCCESS
Steep in a bath a bowlful of leaves from three or four or five of these:
Marigold, Celery, Mint and Grass, Nasturtium, Parsley, Fennel and Cress.
(Calendula, Telina, Menta si Iarba, )
When the Brew is green, and the steam is sweet, lie in the water and thrice repeat:
I shall bathe and I shall be
as green and strong, good Herbs, as thee.
Draw me favor, draw me fame,
Draw bright honor to my name
Rise from the water thrice empowered; Wear those virtues you have conjured.
TO CONFER WITH ONE WHO HAS PASSED AWAY
Needed:
1 white household candle (Indian Spirit 7-day candle can also be used)
Indian Spirit Oil
A picture of the deceased
Lavender in a small natural cotton or muslin bag
Light the white candle that has been anointed with Indian Guide oil and stare at the
flame for a few minutes. Then put the picture at eye level and say:
"You are gone forever
But your wisdom lives on;
With this spell we shall confer.
For through my dreams,
I ask that you come and aid me.'
Concentrate on the problem or concern at hand that you would like to confer with the
person about. Place the picture under your pillow. Let the candle burn to a stub,
extinguish & place it in the bag of Lavender, which has been mixed with a few drops of

12
the oil. Sleep with these items under your pillow for three nights to receive the help
requested via your dreams.
FOR A SAFE RETURN
In a small bag of supple leather or brown cloth, assemble these: a stone the size of a
pigeon's egg, a spoonful of ash from the morning hearth, a chip of bark from the tallest
tree, a pinch of earth, a curl of dust, a blade of grass, all gathered from the place you
leave; Add a lodestone or small magnet, tie the bag with a strip of vine; wear it around
your neck, on a thong -- then do not grieve, you must return.
BEFORE FLIGHT
You who would dare to journey by air must first be freed from folly and pride: In sunlight
stand and pass your hand near to the gleam of a candle's flame; kindle a feather within
its fire, and when it is black, smother the wick; gather soft wax and fill the cracks under
your nails -- Then say this spell:
Too near to the sun I may not fly,
Scorched I should run from his mocking eye --
Yet far from his scorn, below his sway,
Let me be borne and spared this day
TO BE REVENGED ON ONE WHO HAS DONE YOU HARM
This spell is to be used with caution, because, it is rather important to decide at which
point in time you will want it to take hold. This is particularly good for when you are
viewed as the "Loser" and your opponent is viewed as the "Winner":
Spell to exchange the Luck with a Person who has vexed you....
1. Determine a particular possession that the person is particularly fond of; his
automobile, his garden, his boat, his favorite chair, etc.
2. Then on the day of a full moon (i.e. full moon at night or full moon in the day), cut a
length of blackberry (bramble) vine. It is EXTREMELY important that YOU do not touch
the piece of vine, lest the spell backfire. Carry it with a garden or some other kind of tool.
3. By sunset lay it carefully under the person's beloved object and chant:
Cerridwin's vine, Cerridwin's vine!
Thine will be that of mine!
By the power of three times three!
By the power I conjure in me!
Our lucks shall change hands!

13
Mine is his and his mine!
By the power so Devine!
So mote it be in spoken bands!
Gradually your luck will change. Should the victim pick up the vine or touch it, he will
have bad luck, and you will have good luck. If he injures himself on the thorns, he will
suffer an accident, and you will come to money. But this of course, depends on how
much good or bad luck your "victim" has. He will suffer your fate, you shall suffer his.
Like all spells, this one must be used with prudence, since you are not cursing, you are
exchanging something using magick. The luck exchange holds a year and a day, and
cannot be counteracted.
RITUAL TO EMPOWER MAGICKAL POWDERS
1) Set-up the Altar and all the supplies you will need, A towel, An offering to the
elements and all the powder components.
2) Banish all impurities from the water, or use holy water.
Dip your hands in the water and say:
"I purify myself ion the Holy Dew of the Goddess.
I wash away all unclean Spirits and energies.
I welcome the fire of divinity into my soul.
I cast off illusions and bask in the purity of Spirit.
I hold about me, like a luxurious cloak,
The protection of the God and Goddess so that no harm
Will come to me or those I love.
I am pure of heart, pure of spirit,
Pure of mind, So Mote It Be."
Dry your hands on the Towel.
3) Cast Circle. Call Quarters. Cleanse all Supplies in the name of your favorite God or
Goddess.
4) At this time you need to invoke the Divinity and any other energies that you wish to.
You can write your own or use this one.
"Through the world - Hedge power flows hither,
Great Goddess, Mother of all, Feminine light,
Grant me your enchantment, Maiden, Mother, Crone.
Great Lord, Father of all, leader of the wild Host,
Purveyor of the forest, Green Man, Sage.
Grant me your strength and Skill.
Magick I kindle; power I gain!"

14
5) Now Say this prayer listing the Herbs then their Magickal properties after each one.
"Gracious Lady,
Lend your hand of Magick and direction
To these supplies before me..."
List the herbs one by one following with their Magickal Property.
"Gracious Lord,
Lend your hand of power and
Growth to these supplies before me..."
(repeat list)
As you say this prayer wave your hands over the supplies seeing a white light coming
from your hands and the Lord and Lady.
6) Now you need to call other energies.
"Witch's lair and spirit-wolf night;
Ancient Ones bring second sight;
Blood and Bones of those before;
help me with this little chore.
Herbs and Talc and natural things;
at my bidding Magick bring.
North for Earth and East for air;
I summon Spirit to help me here."
Once again pass your hands over the supplies.
7) Cleans Consecrate and empower the candle for the purpose of the Powder. You may
inscribe a spell on it, your intention, and Magick sign, anything you feel will boost or help
your intention. Hold the candle above your head saying,
"Element of fire, work my will by my desire."
Set the candle down and light it. Mix the ingredients together with the purpose of the
powder in mind. Add each ingredient slowly stirring it Widdershins (Counter-clockwise)
for banishing and Deosil (Clock wise) for bringing and gain.
8) When you are done sit quietly and visualize the purpose of the Powder for at least five
minutes.
9) Go to each Quarter and ask for their Blessings and power and leave a offering in that
Quarter.
10) Put the Powder in a storage container until it needs to be used.

15
11) Thank the Quarters and release them
12) Close the circle. Put the candle End in a paper bag with half an orange and a bit of
the powder and bury it off your property. If it is a banishing powder use a Lemon try this
and wear the stone around your neck or wrist but keep in on your person
A CHILD'S BIRTHDAY RITUAL
Tools: a small piece each of fluorite, jet, and the child's birthstone.
I cast this Circle and charge it to draw in only the most perfect, powerful, correct, and
harmonious energies. As I will it, so mote it be. (Alternately, the people present could
dance or walk in a circle, chanting or singing _Life is a Circle_ or other appropriate
chant/song.)
O mighty mountains and endless steppes of the North, Meadows of green
and the creatures that therein dwell, Cast your blessings upon this
child and remain a friend to her!
O winds and breezes of the East
Who bring forth freshness, learning, and joy... Cast your blessings upon
this child and remain a friend to her!
O warm sun and warm skies of the South,
Bringing growth to all things, and the promise of the future,
Cast your blessings upon this child and remain a friend to her!
O cool lakes and deep seas of the West,
Waters soft and giving of life,
Cast your blessings upon this child and remain a friend to her!
Gracious God, Father of all,
We ask your presence here
On this, the [number] anniversary of [name] birth.
Blessed Goddess, Mother of all,
We ask your presence here
On this, the [number] anniversary of [name] birth.
Before the Lords of the Elements,
and the Lord and Lady,
I present my child, [name],
Pledged to the Goddess' care,
Befriended by the Faerys,
And protected by her Guardians.
(Take jet)
I empower this stone to absorb
all negative forces acting upon [name]
and those who care for her.
May it encompass all negative energies,
leaving her path clear for success.
(Take fluorite)
I empower this stone to attract all powers wondrous and good. May it
empower her to take this next step in her journey.

16
(Take birthstone)
As this stone represents [name],
let it draw positive energies, love, light, and health. As the Wheel turns,
may her coming year be blessed
with happiness and gifts from the Lord and the Lady.
(Thank God and Goddess. Cake and milk. Close Circle.)
ENDANGERED SPECIES RITUAL
This is a good ritual for a large group of people. A few days in advance, the entire group
should meet to discuss what will happen and to practice the chants. The Priestess and
her four assistants should prepare a number of paper slips (a few more than people
expected for the ritual), each with
The name of an endangered species written on it. You may choose to include plants and
animals, or just one or the other.
You will need:
A large bowl or box for the paper slips
frankincense incense
sage smudge stick
altar decorations
athame
as many 9-inch long ribbons as there are people in the ritual a collage of extinct species
that have died out because of human interference
Light the incense and candles if you are indoors. This is an excellent outdoor ritual,
however, if you choose to work outside, use your discretion when lighting incense and
candles. Everyone should gather in a circle around the Priestess and her assistants.
When everyone is quiet, the Priestess says: We have come together to add our
protection to the Earth and her endangered children. We gather in sorrow, we gather in
hope. Each person's voice makes a difference. Together we can change the
devastation, through our votes, our voices, and our magick.
Cast the circle. The four assistants call the elements. From each element, also invoke
an animal spirit (good examples: Earth -- wolf; Air -- condor; Fire -- tiger; Water --
whale).
Working deosil, the first assistant carries the smudge stick around to each person. The
second assistant carries the ribbon around to each person except the Priestess. The
third assistant carries around the collage, allowing everyone to look at it. The fourth
assistant carries around the box, and each participant draws a slip of paper, This will be
the species they are to represent during the ritual. The four assistants each take a
ribbon and slip of paper and fade back
into the circle.
The Priestess begins a low moan. She cries out:
Our children are dying, our brothers and sisters of the forest breathe their
last breaths. We have stood and watched their death throes long enough.
It is time to take action!
The first assistant answers:
What can we do? We are but a handful.
The Priestess then commands:

17
First we must speak out against the slaughter.
The participants of the ritual should now spontaneously begin shouting things like "Stop
the killing," "No more slaughter," "Stop the poachers," or
"Strengthen the Endangered Species Act." As the energy builds in this part,
voices will layer each other as participants shout out their ideas for
protecting endangered species.
The Priestess lets this build for a while, then loud enough to be heard,
shouts:
Enough! We use our tongues, but how will you act to back your words?
What will you do to stop the destruction?
Since the group discussion a few days ago, each member of the ritual should have
decided what they alone can do. One by one, working deosil, they should shout out their
responses. These might include donating to the Audubon Society, calling governmental
representatives to find out their stand on environmental issues, or volunteering at the
local nature sanctuary.
Participants should be aware that they are expected to follow up on their pledges. When
everyone has spoken, the Priestess asks:
What species do you stand for tonight?
One by one, deosil, each member calls out the name on their piece of paper.
They say:
I stand here to protect the (animal or plant). I send my energy to the spirit of that
species.
The Priestess begins the chant and everyone joins in. As the chant continues, each
person brings one end of their ribbon into the circle and gives it to the Priestess, keeping
hold of the other end. The circle should look like a bicycle wheel with spokes when
finished.
We weave a web of power tonight,
A web of protection and of light.
The Priestess begins to build the power by building the volume of the chant.
Just before it peaks, she shouts:
Call out your name, you who are in danger!
Shout the name of your species as the power peaks, sending the energy to the
different groups of animals. Ground the energy by kneeling on the Earth.
After everyone has centered themselves, serve cakes and wine and quietly discuss the
energy. Then devote the elements and circle and return home to follow up on the
pledges made in sacred space.
A PURIFICATION
If you wish to be free from a habit, thought, idea; if you wish to be rid of past
associations, guilt or blockages; take the symbols of that problem - whatever they may
be - & throw them onto a raging fire. The fire will consume the symbols & so shall it
consume the power they had over you.

18
For the symbols think a moment - if you overeat, take a portion of your favorite food &
throw it onto the fire. Smoking, drinking the same. For problems which utilize no
concrete objects, draw a symbol or image & burn.
A SPELL OF PROTECTION
Sit or stand before any fire. Look into the flames (or flame, if using a candle). Visualize
the fire bathing you with glowing, protective light. The fire creates a flaming, shimmering
sphere around you. If you wish, say the following or similar words:
"Craft the spell in the fire;
Craft it well; Weave it higher.
Weave it now of shining flame;
None shall come to hurt or maim.
None shall pass this fiery wall;
None shall pass No, none at all."
Repeat this simple yet effective ritual every day when in need.
HEALING FLAMES
Draw a picture of yourself with the disease, wound or condition. Clearly point out the
problem in the picture: a large hammer against the head to represent a headache; black
worms for a virus; a broken limb; a sore.
Charge a red candle with healing energy. light the candle's flame. Hold the tip of the
picture in the flame. After it's lit, drop it into a heat proof container.
Now, with the red candle still burning, draw another picture of yourself without the
headache, free of the virus or sore, or with a healed limb. Place this picture under the
red candle & let it burn out.
You are done.
TO COMMUNICATE WITH OTHERS
Write a letter to a distant friend as if you were going to mail it. Next, light a blazingly hot
fire & throw the letter into it, firmly visualizing the person's face.
You should receive a reply
TO CURE
Light a fire of oak wood, if possible. When much of the wood has been reduced to
glowing pieces of charcoal, pick up one carefully with a pair of tongs or shovel & throw it
immediately into a stream or pot of cold water. It will sizzle & pop. As it does visualize
the disease leaving the body of the afflicted person. Repeat this operation three more
times.

19
HOME BLESSING
It is very important for everyone to feel safe and happy within his or her homes. Feelings
of angry or resent not only build up inside of us, but they also build up in our homes. We
have all entered a home that just did not feel safe or warm. While in that home, the built
up energies invaded us, leaving us feeling angry, frightened, or just uncomfortable. This
is not something you want to live with on a constant basis.
The following steps can be performed when doing a home blessing. The first and most
important step is the purification. It will do you little good to bless the home if little angry
thought gremlins are hiding in the corner. Get rid of them; sweep them out into the
street. Next bless the home to protect it and bring about warm and safe feelings. Make
your home your sanctuary. The last step would be to set up a permanent household
altar that all in the family can use. This will provide yet another space for magick; no
matter what religion your family members follow.
You can perform the ritual below or make you own home blessing. The ritual below is a
fill in the blank outline. You may not necessarily want the same things out of your home
as I do, so I have left it blank for you to choose.
Purification Supplies:
Incense (purifying scent) and Censer
Chalice of Saltwater
Cleaning Supplies
Broom if available
Begin by spending as much time needed to thoroughly clean your home. Get behind
that fridge, sweep away those cobwebs on the ceiling, organize your closest. If your
walls need a fresh bit of paint go for it. Why all the cleaning? Magick must always be
reinforced on the physical realm. What good would it do to get rid of the angry thought
gremlins when there are twenty melted lollipops behind the fridge?
Now it is time to work your ritual. Begin by opening all your windows and doors to allow
fresh clean air in. If you are worried about the neighbors looking in, I don't feel that
pulling the blinds would be a problem.
Pick up you broom and visualize yourself sweeping all the negativity out of the house
through the open doors. I would begin with the farthest room from the front door so that
all the negativity eventually finds its way outside.
Now place your tools upon a table and light the incense. Take a moment feel the
energies within the house. Is there any negativity still lingering about? Where is it? What
does it feel like? Really tune into the feeling of your home.
Now place your hands over your tools and charge them with the power to cleanse your
home. Pick up your chalice and travel clockwise through your house. Sprinkle the
saltwater into every corner of each room, visualize the water washing away negativity,
visualize the salt burning the negativity away, and recite:
"By the powers of Earth and Water, I cleanse this house!"
Return to the table and pick up the censer incense. Take the same route through your
home, visualize the smoke clearing away the negativity, and recite:
"By the powers of Fire and Air, I cleanse this house!"

20
Return to the table. Once again tune into the energies of your house. Is there any
negativity still hiding somewhere? If so, repeat the ritual until your home is full of
peaceful and calm energies.
Now that your home has been purified it is time to bless it. The blessing will help to
ensure a safe and happy home.
Supplies needed for blessing:
White candle
Begin in the kitchen of your home, standing in the center of the room. Tune into the
energies of the kitchen, visualize the activities that take place there, or will take place
there. Light the white candle, and visualize the feelings that you would like to find in the
kitchen. Send those feelings out through the flame of the candle to spread throughout
the room. Recite the following:
"With this flame, I fill the room with feelings of _____, _____, etc. This room is protected,
this room is blessed. So mote it be."
Continue through the rest of your house in a clockwise direction. Stop in each room,
even the bathroom and laundry room, and repeat the process you completed for the
kitchen.
Once you have finished with each room, snuff out the white candle and repeat the ritual
for the next two days.
Your home is now purified and blessed. The last step is to set up a permanent altar for
your entire family. This altar can be a bookshelf, a cabinet, or a TV stand. Anything will
work. I suggest placing in an out of the way area of the home so those working at it will
have some privacy. This will be a family altar; therefore everyone should place
something of significance on the altar, even the pets. Suggestions for altar decorations
could be family photos, photos of deceased loved ones, feathers, whiskers from the
family cat, a stone found on your honeymoon. Remember to allow each person to
choose their own contribution and respect their choice. Once the altar has been set up it
can be blessed and then decorated for the seasons.
NAMING RITUAL
Many who follow the path of Wicca have chosen to use magickal or Craft names. These
names can help protect our privacy from those we do not know, as well as mark a
transition or transformation in our lives. Our magickal names should not be taken lightly.
Just as our parents agonized over our given names, we should also search diligently for
our magickal names.
Our magickal names should stand for what we are, what we want to become. The
magickal name should represent characteristics of you. Therefore, before you choose a
magickal name you should examine yourself. Write down who you are, what you want to
become, what things best represent you. Do you have any spiritual guides? If so,
determine if aspects of these guides should be incorporated into your name. For
instance, somebody chose the name Red Lupa to honor the first spirit guide that she
had recognized. Choosing the name Red Lupa also helped her project her life long
passion for animals. Once you have chosen a magickal name you should conduct a

21
ritual to officially introduce yourself to the elements and the Lord and Lady. The ritual
below is one that you may use. The ritual can also help you to find your magickal name.
Set up your circle and altar as usual. However, place a visual representation of your
name on your altar. If you have not yet chosen your name, place a paper on the altar
which lists who you are, what you want to become, and what your name will represent.
You will use these things as a focus during the ritual
Cast your circle and then lay down in the center of the circle. Hold in your hand your
representation or paper, concentrate on it as you begin to connect to each of the
elements. Feel the wind blowing through your hair, filling your lungs with breath. Feel the
sun beating down upon you, warming you. Touch and taste the sweat which cleanses
and cools you. Feel the stability of the earth beneath you. Find yourself becoming one
with the earth, returning to it. Visualize the decay of your physical form and the
emergence of your spirit.
Concentrate on your name, or if you have not yet chose one, ask for guidance in finding
it. If the time is right you may actually be given your magickal name. Once you have
chosen your name and know for certain that it is the proper one, introduce yourself to
the Lord and Lady with this new name. Return to the earth and introduce yourself to the
elements. When you have finished close the circle with the knowledge that a new life,
and new path has began.
PURIFICATION RITUAL
Materials needed:
• 	White candle
• 	Fire-proof vessel
• 	Paper
• 	Writing utensil
• 	Purifying oils
• 	Blanket
Begin the ritual by taking a hot bath with purifying oils added to the water. Oils to try
would be lemon and eucalyptus. Have the white candle lit in the bathroom with you.
Visualize the negativity leaving your body and mingling in the water. Visualize this
negativity being cleansed and returning to you in a positive form. Once you feel calm
and at peace, dress in a special robe or article of clothing. If you choose to remain sky
clad that is also fine. With the candle walk to your front door. You will be purifying each
entrance to your home moving clockwise throughout the house or apartment. While
walking chant:
Darkness flee from this light
Be gone from my sight
Once all entrances have been purified, find a comfortable place in your home to finish
the rest of the ritual. In this place you should have enough room for you to lay down
comfortably. It is also necessary to be within sight of the white candle, so pick an area
where fire hazards would be at a minimum.
You will first need to cleanse yourself of any negative emotions that may have built up
over the years. Write down these feelings on the paper. Be honest and specific. Do not

22
stop until you feel you have expressed it all. Once you are done writing use the candle to
light the paper on fire. Place this in a fire proof vessel and watch it burn. Visualize the
cleansing of the fire and a new and happier you rising from the flames. Chant:
Fire burns away old
Makes way for the new
I release my pain
I release my guilt
All pain is consumed.
I am reborn from the flame
I am light, I am love
I am renewed
So mote it be.
Wrap yourself in the blanket, as if in a cocoon. Be sure to leave an opening for your
mouth and nose. Lie down and feel yourself relax. Feel yourself sink into the earth.
Tonight marks the beginning of a new way of life. For a beginning to occur, death must
also. Feel yourself return to the earth, become part of it, nourish it. Pour out the last of
your pain and suffering. Let the Lady and the Lord comfort you in this dark place.
Do not force things to occur. Simply allow emotions to take control. You must purge the
pain and suffering and allow the happiness to guide you. Listen to all that you hear.
Take note, for there are important lessons to be learned.
Once you feel yourself free of the pain and being guided by peace and happiness, begin
to wiggle out of the blanket. Do not unfold or unwrap it, but will out of it as if it was the
birth canal. Remember you are being reborn. Once out, survive all around you. See the
positive, see the peace. Be sure to thank every presence that helped you be reborn.
MONEY SPELL
(Said while making 9 knots in green, 13-inch silk cord or ribbon)
By knot of one, my spell's begun
By knot of two, plenty fruitful work to do
By knot of three, money comes to me
By knot of four, opportunity knocks at my door
By knot of five, my business thrives
By knot of six, this spell is fixed
By knot of seven, success is given
By knot of eight, increase is great
By knot of nine, these things are mine
Prosperity Oil
This classic prosperity oil has been used for at least 100 years.
It is best made on a Thursday and is believed to be most
effective if allowed to sit for three weeks after mixing.
A small green piece of fabric may be anointed with the oil and carried in the purse.
The oil may be worn as a perfume.
Omit the base oil if you wish to use with aromatherapy oil warmer.
Sunflower, or light mineral)

23
Mix all ingredients carefully and put into a dark glass bottle.
Allow it to sit for at least three weeks then strain through cheesecloth
or muslin to remove the basil powder residue. Keep a
small coin in the bottle and keep away from direct sunlight.
DEPRESSION HEALING RITUAL
Go outside during the daytime and find yourself a large tree. Oak is the best choice, but
any large tree will do. (Deciduous trees are better than evergreens for some reason; go
figure!) Place the palm of your projective hand (right if right handed, left if left handed)
upon the trunk of the tree and say something like this to the tree:
"Blessed tree, my brother (or sister) of wood, I am in great need of your healing. I feel
hollow inside, as my depression grips at my very heart. I ask that you aid me, assist me
in healing myself of this. Please assist me to feel strong and solid inside, assist me in
being happy again."
Now, sit down facing the sun and lean your back against the trunk of the tree. As you
become more relaxed, feel yourself melt into the trunk, becoming one with the tree. Feel
that you have become a branch, full of leafy foliage. Feel the Sun beat down upon you.
Drink in the Light of the Sun God. Feel His Love fill you, pushing your sadness into the
tree. Fill yourself with the energy of the sun, and allow this to pass through you into the
tree as well.
You are now part of the tree; you are the tree. Feel the overwhelming Wisdom locked
into your wood, your leaves. Feel all that it is to be a tree.
Now, slowly, feel yourself separate from the tree, becoming human again. Lean forward,
and stand. Face the tree, and thank it. If you feel like it, give it a hug!
You and the tree are now one; you are the tree, and the tree is now you. Love the tree,
and care for it. The better the tree is cared for, the happier you will be in the long run!
And become one with the tree as often as you need to by performing the above ritual
and enjoy! If you ever need to move far from the tree, explain this to it, and give it back
the woody feeling inside, and it will give you back the human feeling it has. When you
move, find a new tree. Also, if you can, whoever moves into the place you were in, if at
all possible, ask them to take special care of this tree because it has meaning to you.
A SPELL FOR WELL BEING
When you have been sick, but are beginning to feel better, this is a good spell
to cast. It is energizing and will leave you feeling healthier than when you
began. For periodic maintenance, you may want to use the spell twice a year.
Things you will need:
• 	1 white or pink image candle
• 	powdered rose petals
• 	push-pin thumbtack
• 	Star Oil (see below)

24
Carve your name, or that of the person for whom you are casting the spell,
onto the candle. Anoint the candle with the oil and sprinkle with powdered rose petals.
Raise energy and focus on general well-being as you charge the candle. Burn under the
waxing moon, chanting:
Earth, Air, Fire, Water
Peace, Health, Joy, Laughter.
Peak the energy and let it fly out to the universe. Let the candle burn completely.
(If you use runes you may also carve Sigel, Flame, and Caduceus in the wax before
anointing the candle with oil.)
How to make Star Oil
• 	1/4 ounce almond oil
• 	10 drops lemon oil
• 	7 drops jasmine oil
• 	7 drops rosemary oil
• 	17 drops chamomile oil
• 	5 drops sandalwood oil
THE WISHING WELL
Take any large bowl. Drip a few drops of different colored candle wax in the bottom of
the bowl, then adhere a white candle to that spot. The different colors represent diverse
needs and goals, while the white binds this variety together in harmony. Each morning,
light the candle when you get up and put a coin in the bowl. Make your wish for the day.
Blow out the candle before you leave the house. Whenever you desperately need to
have a wish fulfilled, remove a coin from the bowl and either plant it in rich soil
(houseplants will do ) or throw it into moving water so that your message of need will be
carried through the earth. When the bowl is filled with coins, use all but a few (these
"seeds" always remain in your bowl) for random acts of kindness, like getting treats for
the neighborhood kids or helping a homeless person. Your generosity will return to you
threefold to keep the magic of benevolence, both mundane and divine, with you always.
THE BOTTLE SPELL
(variation of the traditional witch's bottle)
This spell can be used to neutralize the power of those who intend to hurt your
reputation, in any way pose a threat to your security, or who want to do you physical
harm.
Tools:
black thread
black ink or black ballpoint pin
parchment paper
1 bottle with a cork or mortar and pestle
1 white candle

25
4 tablespoons orris-root (or oak moss)
4 tablespoons sea salt
4 tablespoons black powdered iron (available at
pottery shops where ironstone is made)
4 tablespoons frankincense or myrrh
Mix the sea salt, orris-root powder, and iron in a bowl. Then cut a piece of parchment to
fit inside your bottle and write on it in black ink:
I neutralize the power of [name of your adversary] to do me any harm.
I ask that this be correct and for the good of all. So mote it be.
Roll up the parchment, tie it with black thread to bind it, and place it in the bottle. Fill the
bottle with the dry ingredients. Then take the white candle and, while turning the bottle
counterclockwise, drip drip wax over the cok to seal it. Last, secretly bury the bottle in a
place where it will not be disturbed and no animal or person will dig it up. It should never
be opened or the power of the spell is lost.
PROSPERITY SPELL
You need:
some money or pictures of cash, checks and jewels to be placed on the altar
drums for raising energy
Put the money on the altar, not as an object to worship but as a symbol to your deep
mind of what you want to obtain. You may wish to place a goddess statue or another
religious symbol behind the symbolic wealth, as a reminder that money is not after the
ultimate value. Then, stand up, and drum and chant to raise power. Your chant can be
something like :
Wealth , wealth , come to me ,
I deserve prosperity.
As the power moves toward its peak , imagine a huge transparent funnel over you, and
huge amounts of cash , checks and other forms of wealth cascading down though it to
pile up around you (or , at least , enough for your needs + some to donate to worthy
causes).
Give thanks for the wealth which you know will be headed your way. Open the circle.
Afterwards, go seek a job if you don’t have one or ask for a raise, and always give
money to charities. Soon prosperity will come to you.
DREAM PROTECTION SPELL
This is something I wrote when someone put a spell on me to use my own thoughts
against me. This spell reversed that one!
Tools:
1 tablespoon of lemon juice (or another fruit juice)
1 tablespoon of sea salt
1 teaspoon of vegetable oil
1 light weight cauldron (a glass bowl works too)
1 piece of paper
1 black pen

26
2 black or red candles (1 of each works best)
Mix the lemon juice, sea salt, and oil into your cauldron. Place the cauldron in front of
you on the floor. Sit comfortably and place the candles beside the cauldron (red on left,
black on right.) Rip the piece of paper in half then set it aside.
Light both candles, left one first. Now close your eyes and visualize a sphere. In the
middle of the sphere, visualize yourself stuck inside, trying to get out. See the black and
red candles burning around you. Watch as the candles spin around you, getting faster
each time they pass. Then see yourself magically being released. On one piece of
paper, draw a picture of what you saw. On the other, write down your biggest fear. Light
both pieces of paper on fire, using the black for the written half, red for the drawing.
Then throw them into your cauldron. Take the cauldron outside and pour it (paper and
all) into a hole in the ground. Cover the hole with dirt. The spell is done.
NIGHTMARE SPELLS
I was plagued by the same bad dream night after night for over a month and I decided to
do something about it. This spell was given to me by a fellow witch's grandmother (who
is also a witch) and I elaborated on it.
Items required:
scarf (white or cream colors work best)
4 cloves
pinch of basil
pinch of ground sage
lavender or vanilla oil (whatever you find more soothing)
black marker
white ribbon
Lay the scarf out. You will be putting spices into it. Place the spices (ground sage, 4
cloves, basil) into the scarf and add 2 drops of oil. Gather the scarf at the top (like a
moneybag) and tie it with the ribbon. On the outside of the scarf draw the nightmare that
plagues you (e.g. spiders, falling)
Place the scarf under your pillow and sleep with it there.
This cured me of my nightmares. I hope it works for others.
RELEASING NEGATIVE ENERGY SPELL
Time: During the seven days of the Full of the Moon.
When and Where: Outside, Barefoot, facing East.
Clothing white cotton.
Bathe and meditate while using this breathing method. Inhale through the nose and
exhale through the mouth. When through, visualize the negative energy flowing out
through the drain. Go outside and face East. Place the left arm straight down to the side.
Palm flat against the body. Right arm straight out and palm side up. Bring up until the
Full Moon rests on your palm as a crystal ball would rest. Meditate again using the Ohm
meditation as you would a musical scale. When you are still and feeling the energy.
Repeat the following:

27
O Great Mother Goddess and Father God
You who are all yet nothing.
Beyond explanation and understanding.
I ask thee to grant my request this night.
I ask that you take the negativity that was sent to me
And send it swirling into the Universe.
Let it be sent back to the sender three fold
And as a lesson of what is right and wrong.
Let the residual energy be sent to me three fold
With loving, caring healing positive energy.
I ask that you grant this request.
I also thank Thee for your kindness and caring attention.
I ask this in the power of three
So Mote it Be!
Blessed Be!
STRENGTH SPELL
This is a small spell I use quite often. Mostly when I'm stressing out because I can't open
that pickle jar, the box is a little too heavy, or when the screwdriver just wont turn.
First, quickly clear your mind. Then repeat the following verse three times:
Strength of day
Strength of night
Give me strength
Beyond my sight.
Now try that little chore agian it should be a lot easier than before!
THREE TIMES THREE SPELL
To have someone see his errors
This is a three times three spell to use on people who were corrupt in their ways. It has
no negative consequence unless you think ill of the person while casting the spell.
Wind in the north, run through the trees
Three times three, let them see, let them see
Sands of the east, rich soils beneath
Three times three, set them free, set them free
Fires in the south, awaken from sleep
Three times three, let them see, let them see
Water of the west, flow to the seas
Three times three, set them free, set them free
It works best if you have something representing that person, like a strand of their hair or
a fingernail. The spell may not work instantaneously, you may have to repeat it for the
person to see error in their ways. Please be sure you're not being hypocritical, because
that may cause negative feedback.. So, all warnings given, blessed be!

28
HAPPINESS/COMFORT SPELL
You need
Jasmine oil
Freshly picked flower (any kind will do)
Paper + Pen
Candle
Container
Write down on a piece of paper who or what makes you sad or angry and burn the paper
saying: "I burn this paper to bring me happiness."
Then drip the jasmine oil on the flowers and burn the flowers saying: "I burn these flowers to
bring me comfort." Pour the ashes into the container while saying: "Akasha (the goddess), bring
me happiness and bring me comfort." Repeat it three times then put the container somewhere
cool. (i.e. fridge).
SPELL FOR BULLIES
This is used to stop people who are bullying or upsetting you and hopefully to make
them friends.
You wil need:
1 Glass bowl full with water.
1 pinch of sugar
Blossom petals (any color will do)
4 drops of olive oil
Instructions:
Chant the following spell 4 times. Every time you say the spell add 1 of the 4 drops to
your bowl of water. Put the blossoms in the water but so they float on the surface of the
water. Then put the pinch of sugar in. After you've done the spell, put the blossoms that
were in your water in a circle and pour the solution (water) over the flowers.
Let (person's name) be
Rid of evil,
Rid of sin.
Rid of jealousy and hatred within.
Let (him/her) learn to live & work with others especially me,
Go spirit you are free.
May (him/her) be guided by nature.
TO BIND A TROUBLE MAKER
BEST TIME: Waning Moon
Situate the cauldron between 2 black candles, with a third black candle opposite you on
the far side of the altar. Burn a protection or binding incense. Have the names of your
enemies writtenon a smallpeice of parchment. If the names are unknown, merely write
all my enemies. Sprinkle basil and elder flowers into the cauldron. Say:
Bubble, bubble, cauldron bubble
Burn the evil, destroy the trouble.

29
Ignite the parchment from the central candle and drop into the cauldron. Take up the
wand and stir the air above the cauldron while chanting:
Darkness ended, control is done.
Light has come. My battle's won.
Take the ashes and herbs outside. Throw them up to the winds and the Moon
A SPELL TO BREAK THE POWERS OF A SPELL
If you believe that a spell has been cast against you, place a large black candle in the
cauldron (or a large black bowl). The candles must be tall enough to extend a few inches
above the cauldron's rim. Affix the candle to the bottom of the cauldron with warmed
beeswax or the drippings of another black candle so that it will not tip over.
Fill the cauldron to the rim with fresh water, without wetting the candle's wick. An inch or
two should remain above the water. Deeply breathe, meditate, clear your mind and light
the candle. Visualize the suspected spell's power as residing within the candle's flame.
Sit in quiet contemplation of the candle and visualize the power flowing and growing
within the candle's flame. (Yes, the power against you) As the candle burns down, it's
flame will eventually sputter and go out as it contacts the water. As soon as the flame
has been extinguished by the water, the spell will be dispersed.
Break your visualization of the spell's power; see it explode into dust, becoming
impotent.
Pour the water into a hole in the ground, a lake or stream. Bury the candle. It is done.
A MIRROR SPELL OF PROTECTION FOR THE HOME
Compose an altar: place a censer in the center before an image of the Goddess. Have a
12-inch (or so) round mirror there as well. Ring the altar with 9 white candles. Burn a
protective incense (such as frankincense, sandalwood, copal or rosemary) in the censer.
Beginning with the candle most directly before the Goddess image, say these or similar
words:
"Lunar Light, protect me!"
Repeat as you light each candle until all are glowing.
Now, holding the mirror, invoke the Goddess in Her Lunar aspect with these or similar
words:
"Great Goddess of the Lunar Light
And Mistress of the Seas;
Great Goddess of the Mystic night
And of the Mysteries;
Within this place of candles bright
And with your mirror nigh;
Protect me with your awesome night
Whilte ill vibrations fly!"
Standing before the altar, hold the mirror facing the candles so that it reflects their
flames. Keeping the mirror toward the candles, move slowly, clockwise around the altar,
watching the reflected firelight bouncing off your surroundings.

30
Gradually increase your speed, mentally invoking the Goddess to protect you. More
faster and faster, watch the light shattering the air, cleansing it, burning away all
negativity and all lines along which the ill energies have traveled into your house.
Charge your home with the protective light of the Goddess. Race around the candles
until you've felt the atmosphere change, until you feel that your home has been cleansed
and guarded by the Great Goddess.
When finished, stand once again before the image. Thank the Goddess in any words
you wish. Pinch out the candles one by one, bind them together with white cores and
store them in safe place until ( & if) you need to use them again for the same purpose.
A SILVER SPELL
(This ritual takes a week to perform)
Situate a small bowl of any material in a place of prominence in your home, somewhere
you pass by every day. Each day for seven days put one dime in the bowl. Next, obtain
a green candle, any shape or kind.
Before you begin, fix in your mind the idea that you are a prosperous person. See
money as being no problem. Imagine money coming to you, as you need it.
Place the bowl of dimes, the candle and a candleholder on a flat surface. Hold the
candles in your hands and feel the power of money. Feel the avenues that open to you
when you have it. Sense the energy within money, which we as human beings have
given to it. Place the candle in the holder. Pour the seven dimes into your left hand. You
will create a circle surrounding the candles with the dimes. Place the first dime directly
before the candle. As you place it say there or similar words:
"Money flow, money shine
Money grow, Money's mine."
Repeat this 6 more times until you've created a circle around the candle with seven
gleaming dimes.
As you say the words and place the dimes, know that you're not just reciting and fooling
around with pieces of metal. You're working with power - that which we've given money
as well as that which is within yourself. Words too have energy, as does the breathe on
which they ride.
When you've completed this, light the candle. Strike a match and touch its tip to the
wick. As it puts up the fire, sputters, to a shining flames, see money burning these. See
the power of money flowing out from the seven dimes up to the candle's flames and then
out to the atmosphere.
Blow out the match and settle down before the glowing candle and money. Sense the
feeling of money in your life. Visualize a life with money to spare - a life in which bills are
quickly paid and money will never again be a problem.
See yourself wisely spending money, investing it for your future needs. See money as
an unavoidable and beautiful aspect of your life.
Kill off any thoughts of debt, of taxes, of doubt that you can achieve this change. Simply
see what will be.
After ten minutes or so, leave the area. Let the candle burn itself out in the holder.
Afterward, collect the dimes, place them back in the bowl, & "feed" it a few coins every
day from then on.
Money will come to you.

31
TO GAIN PROPHECIES
BEST TIME: Waxing Moon
Fill the cauldron half-full of water and place it on a table where you can see comfortably
into it while seated.
Light 2 purple candles and a good divination incense; a combination of mugwort and
wormwood work well. Arrange the candles so their light does not shine into the water in
your eyes. Focus your attention on the bottom of the cauldron, your hands placed lightly
on either side. Breathe gently into the water and say:
Cauldron, reveal to me that which I seek
Great Mother, open my inner eye that I may truly see.
Empty your mind as much as possible; remain relaxed while looking deep into the
cauldron waters. The answer may come in images in the water, picture in your mind and
strong bursts of "knowing".
TO RID YOURSELF OF NEGATIVES
BEST TIME: Waning Moon
Set an empty cauldron or goblet on your altar between 2 lit white candles. Burn good
protection or blessings incense. Robe yourself, preferably in white, and stand or sit
before the altar. Breathe slowly and evenly until you are calm and centered. Take the
cauldron or goblet in both hands; hold high over the altar in salute to the gods. Lower to
chest level and slowly breathe into the cauldron, silently naming each habit, person or
experience you wish removed from your life.
When finished, turn the cauldron or goblet upside down on the altar, saying:
The Contents of this vessel,
I give to thee, Great Ones.
Exchange these experiences for better.
Place an offering of herbs and milk outside. Or at least burn the herbs in your censer.
SPELL TO HELP IN COURT CASES
When the moon is in the signs of either Libra or Sagittarius, brew a magickal tea from a
lovage root, and strain the liquid into a glass container. Seal it tightly with a lid after the
tea has cooled down; bless it in the divine name of the Goddess; and then store it in the
refrigerator until the night before you are to appear in court.
When the time is ready, light a new black candle and add the lovage root tea to your
bathwater. As you bathe in it and visualize yourself winning the court case, your body
and spirit will absorb the beneficial energies.
After bathing, place the Justice card from a Tarot deck under your pillow. Go to bed and
recite the following magickal rhyme over and over (either to yourself, or out loud) until
you fall asleep:

32
SCALES OF JUSTICE, HARKEN AND QUAVER;
LET THE JUDGE RULE IN MY FAVOUR.
To make the power of this spell even MORE POTENT, also brew a magickal tea from
some dried Californian buckthorn bark, and sprinkle it around the courthouse premises
at midnight on the night prior to your court appearance. Be sure to do this without
anyone seeing you
WICCAN PENTAGRAM RITUAL Rubric
[This is a form of the rite incorporating the changes in symbolism discussed
above]
WICCAN CROSS Face East. Touch forehead. Say IO EVOE HERTHA ('Blessed be
Hertha,' or other Name by which you worship the Goddesses Creatrix) Touch solar
plexus or genitals. Say IO EVOE CERNUNNOS('Blessed be Cernunnos,' or other name
by which you worship the Horned God as the Earth) Touch right shoulder. Say EKO
EKO AZARAK('Hail, hail force of fire') Touch
left shoulder. Say EKO EKOAMELAK ('Hail, hail to the glory') Extend arms in form of a
cross. Say IO EVOE ('Blessed be.') Clasp hands upon breast and say 'So mote it be.'
CIRCLE OF PROTECTION Trace pentagram in East. Say HERNE. Trace circle of
protection until facing South. Trace pentagram in South. Say CERNUNNOS. Trace circle
of protection until facing
West. Trace pentagram in West. Say ARADIA. Trace circle of protection until facing
North. Trace pentagram in North. Say HABONDIA. Finish tracing circle, closing it in the
East. INVOCATIONOF THEGREAT GODS Return to center of circle and face East.
Extend arms in form of a cross. Chant: Before me HERNE The Huntsman Behind me
ARADIA The Maiden
On my right hand CERNUNNOS, the Horned God On my left hand HABONDIA, the
Great Mother About me flame the pentagrams And above me shines the light of the
Goddess. Repeat the Wiccan Cross. Rather than performing this in the rather measured
cadences of Cabalistic
Ritual, a form of dancing and chanting more pleasing to the God-forms of Wicca might
profitably be devised.
DISPELL NEGATIVE ENERGIES AROUND YOU
This spell is to help dispell negative energies around you and involves making a
talisman.
Take a small clear crystal, an acorn, some rosemary and mandrake and a bit of green
silk or cotton. It doesn't need to be a big piece. Cast your circle and creating a pouch
from the herbs, bless them with each element saying
"While this dwells within, there will be protection without. Cleanse and charge this
charm, element of against all who wish me ill!"
Now hang this somewhere not too obviously, like hiding it in a corner or over a window.
This will protect you till next Samhain when you should burn it in the sacred fire, crystal

33
and all. If it is not too tainted, the fire will just cleanse the crystal and you'll be able to
retrieve it from the
ashes but I always recommend just getting a new one.
ROSE LEAF SPELL
If someone is ill-wishing you, write his/her name with red ink on a rose leaf and carry it at
all times. Then that person will not succeed in harming you.
RITUAL OF THE MISTS
This ritual is intended to be done when there is lots of fog in your area. This Ritual and
prayer is to bring you closer to Manannan Mac Lyr, Keeper of the Mist, Ruler of Tir Na
Og, and keeper of the Well of Wisdom. Personally when I have done it I have felt
strongly drawn into the mists as if the Ancestors were calling me into them to join them.
Someday I might go ahead and go but as of yet, I haven't. If at all possible, try to do this
ritual in a place with trees and open land. I
have done it outside my home but my home is too connected to this world. I have done it
in a park, and the effects are much cleaner and crisper there.
Items needed: Staff Robe Object w/ Double spiral Object w/ Triskele
Bread as a sacrifice to the land spirits First thing to do is to feel the mists around you,
Alert your senses to it. Remember that the Mists are an In between area, not sky, not
water. Get your bearings, realize that you are in an in between state. At this time you
should be wearing your robe.
Becoming aware of the Center of the Three realms The first thing to do, is to become
aware of the three realms. Land, Sea, and Sky. Hold the object with the Triskele firmly in
your hand and do the following:
Bend down and touch the ground, and say - "I stand firmly upon the land" Stand up and
hold your arms out to the sides - "The sea surrounds me." Bring your arms over your
head and finally say - "The sky spreads itself above me" Bring your hands down over
your heart and say - "I acknowledge the three realms."
Acknowledging the Mists: Take the staff and pound it on the ground three times. Take
the staff and hold it straight out from your body (like it is an extension of your arms) and
turn around three times (counter clockwise) as if you were cutting the mists in half.
Bring the staff up and wave it over your head three times. (This movement is like
acknowledging the three realms. Hitting the ground with the staff contacts it with land,
cutting the mists gives it
contact with water, and waving it over your head give is contact with the air) Next face
North (the direction of the four cities, and the place that the Tuatha de Dannan came
from) Take the staff and draw a double spiral in the air, and say the following words:

34
"Manannan Mac Lyr, Lord of the Mist, Ruler of Tir na mBam, Keeper of the double gate
of the otherworld. I am here seeking knowledge of the mists and the other worlds. I
come bringing sacrifices for the land spirits. I come in complete awareness and in
harmony with the three
realms. Watch over me as I travel the mists, keep me from harm as I travel here in the in
between. Grant me, oh Manannan, the gift of knowledge from the well which is yours to
protect, from which the five rivers flow, into which the nuts of knowledge drop, into which
swim the salmon of knowledge. "
"I acknowledge the shroud of the mists, The mists that protect the otherworld the
otherworld where the Well of Wisdom lies the Well of Wisdom that contains all
knowledge, which is the key to our lives our lives that are in service to the Gods The
Gods that live in
the otherworld The otherworld that is protected by the mists I acknowledge the shroud of
the mists."
Take the sacrifice, break it into several parts and then put them on the ground as a
sacrifice to the land spirits. At this point the formal part of the ritual is over. What I will do
is I will begin walking through out the park or the place I am at and seeking the mists.
Becoming familiar with how different the land is when the mists come and envelop it.
When I am about to leave the place I am at, I then end with a prayer to the Gods and
Goddesses of the Tuatha De Danann to keep me safe as I travel the mists back to my
world.
RITUAL TO PROTECT AGAINST EVIL SPIRITS
This ritual works best if performed on a night when the moon is full and bright and when
it is in the sign of Pisces or Aries.
Materials Needed:
-A Candle to represent the Goddess(Usually Green)
-A Candle to represent the God(Usually Red)
-Another Candle (Blue or Black)
-Some piece of jewelry such as a Pendant or necklace.
-A Bowl of salt
Procedure:
***Cast the Circle
-Light the candles of the Goddess and the God(The Green & Red ones).
-Speak this invocation(or something similar).
"Oh Mother Goddess,
And Father God."
***pause a moment and continue***

35
"For thine protection I now pray
Let all evil turn away
Protect me night
Protect me day
And keep misfortune well at bay."
-Light the other candle(The Blue or Black one.)
-Call on the spirits of fire like this:
"Oh Great Salamanders of Fire and South,
Hear now these words come from my mouth.
I call thee here to aid and view
This ritual that I, this moment, do."
-Plunge the jewelry into the salt to cleanse it. Speak this:
"With this salt, Be Cleansed."
-Pass the jewelry through the flame of the candle 5 times. As you do this,
chant:
"Protect me from all evil."
(Repeat this as much as needed)
-Put the jewelry on. Draw a pentagram in the air and rest a moment or two.
-Thank the Salamanders like this:
"Oh Great Salamanders of Fire,
I release thee now, and thank thee,
On this Hallowed night."
***Close the circle.
*NOTE* This is simply an outline. You must change and adapt it so that it feels right to
you. A Witch should write his/her own spells ideally, but it's o.k. to borrow from another
Witch if you're beginning your journey in the craft.
PROTECTION OF ANIMALS AND CHILDREN (ELF MAGIK)
Place an offering of a little ginger sprinkled in some milk and honey in a bowl on your
altar or outside in a sheltered place. If possible lay a few ferns by the bowl. Lay out
crystal and moonstone too.
With your wand, gently tap the bowl 3 times and say,
"Light Elves, listen. Hear my call. Your presence here I ask. For (animal/child's name)
needs your protection. To safeguard him/her is your task. Keep (animal/child's name)

36
safe by night and day, while asleep and while at play. Beautiful Light Elves, answer me. I
ask your presence here.
To this little one protection give that he/she may have no fear. Blessings to all that come
to my aid. Between friends is this bargain made."
THIRD EYE RITUAL
Perform this ritual to improve psychic powers three days before the moon is full, and
preferably when it is in either the astrological sign of Cancer, Pisces or Scorpio. Begin
by brewing a strong magickal tea made from yarrow or mugwort (herbs that stimulate
the psychic senses) and then light thirteen purple colored votive candles to help attract
psychic influences. Drink the tea and then gaze fixedly into a magick mirror, black bowl
full of water, crystal ball, or crystal pyramid as you chant thrice the following incantation:
"I invoke thee, oh Asarial,
Archangel of Neptune
And ruler of clairvoyant powers.
I ask thee now to open my third eye
And show me the hidden light.
Let me see the future.
Let me see the past.
Let me perceive the divine
Kingdoms of the unknown.
Let me understand the wisdom
Of the mighty universe.
So mote it be!"
After chanting, relax, breathe slowly and concentrate on opening your Third Eye. Do not
permit any negative thought to contaminate your mind. The Third Eye, an invisible
chakra located in the middle of the forehead above the space between the eyebrows, is
the human body's highest source of power, supernormal sight and clairvoyant vision.
PSYCHIC SPELL
A spell to open the third eye (psychic sight) goes as follows.
Fill a small purple bag (or a piece of cloth that you can wrap herbs in and tie up) with as
many of the following herbs as you can:
mugwort
acacia - acacia
honeysuckle – lonicera ionicera
peppermint - Mentha piperita
rosemary - rozmarin
thyme – thymus vulgaris
yarrow – Achillea millefolium
cloves - trifoi
dandelion - Taraxacum
lilac - liliac

37
lavendar - levandita
calendula - calendula
Gather the edges of the cloth and tie a string around it if you are using a cloth, or if you
used a small purple bag, tie it shut. (Drawstring bags work best.) Using a dark violet
marker, draw an eye on the front of the bag. Rub the bag on the third eye chakra
(forehead) whenever performing divination or needing psychic sight, and sleep with it
under your pillow every night. .
EMPOWERMENT RITUAL
Many adaptations by Spirit Online to an original anonymous ritual This ritual will increase
your magical powers and energy. I altered this ritual almost entirely, choosing to use
personal symbols as opposed to runes. (That is, symbols personal to the person
practicing the ritual.) I consider
this one of the most important rituals to perform, as it will truly increase your powers
tenfold.
Direct passage from the author:
"The purpose of this ritual is to tap into your own personal life force and amplify it into a
personal statement of self confidence and strength. Afterwards, when you feel yourself
dragging in one area or another, concentrate on the appropriate symbol in the
appropriate color for a bit, and you will find yourself tapping back into the energies you
established in the ritual."
You will need:
A set of crayons including red, orange, yellow, green, sky blue, dark blue, violet, black,
grey, white, silver, and gold.
A medium to work on--cloth or paper on which all the colors will show up.
A red candle Fiery scented incense, such as sage or cedar. (salvie sau cedru)
First, establish your working circle, after you've gathered all your materials together.
Make sure you have a comfortable place to sit and draw. You'll be here a while.
Face the east and say:
"Spirits of the East, powers of Air, I ask that you be present at this spell-working. Help
me find inspiration and visualize the symbols clearly that I may partake of their
essence."
Face the south and say:
"Spirits of the South, powers of Fire, I ask that you be present at this spell-working. Help
me find the spirit within to empower the symbols and tune into their color energy."
Face the west and say:
"Spirits of the West, powers of Water, I ask that you be present at this spell-working.
Help me to seek the mystery within, that the symbols draw here may work upon my
emotions for my Highest Good."
Face the north and say:
"Spirits of the North, powers of Earth, I ask that you be present at this spell-working.
Help me to manifest the symbols in the third-dimensional world so that their energies
may become a part of my physical existence."
Face the sky and say:
"Father Sky, I ask that you watch over me in this spell-working. Lend me your wisdom so
that I may bring safely link my inner vision with the outer Self."

38
Place your hands on the earth and say:
"Mother Earth, I ask that you watch over me in this spell-working. Let me ground myself
deeply in you and draw on your strength and energy to sustain me in my work."
Face your altar in the center of the circle and say:
"Sacred center, Spirit of all that is, of whom we are all only aspects, unite this sphere
into a protected space for the spell-working I plan to do here."
Using the red crayon, visualize the color as life essence. Draw a human body, using a
star-like shape.
Draw the first symbol that comes to your mind when you think of strength and power.
(Draw it in red below the human body shape.)
Now take the orange crayon. This color represents vitality, potency, courage- draw the
first symbol of these qualities that comes to mind slightly above and to the left of the last
symbol.
With the yellow crayon in hand, concentrate on intellect, and your request for
knowledge. Draw a symbol of this directly to the left of the human body shape.
Using the green crayon, visualize expansion, abundance, prosperity, growth, love.
When you have felt its energy, draw a symbol of above and to the left of the human
body.
Take up the sky blue crayon, and feel it's energy of expression, communication, spiritual
gain, joy, and self-achievement. Draw a symbol of those directly above the central
symbol (body).
Using a dark blue crayon, draw a symbol to the lower-right of the last symbol. This one
should represent synthesis and inner wisdom. It should align with the green shape.
In violet, which represents spirituality and guidance, draw a symbol of those traits
directly to the right of the red central sign.
White is used to link the life-force. Draw a symbol that represents a cycle or strong bond
below and to the right of the central symbol.
This main pattern is complete. It should resemble a circle of colors and symbols
surrounding the body.
Now, trace from the central body, directly to the left. Here, you should come upon the
yellow symbol. To the left of that symbol, you will draw another sign, in silver.
Hold the silver crayon and feel it's energy, imagine the journey you are embarking on,
and draw a symbol of it.
Take the gray crayon and visualize flexibility, endurance, persistence and resolve
needed to accomplish the changes you desire. When you feel it's energy, draw a symbol
of those strengths at the very top/center. (above the human body, and above the light
blue sign.)
The gold crayon represents activity. Draw your symbol of activation to the far-right (lined
up horizontally with the silver symbol).
Using black, feel and see the changes you want occurring, the power of this ritual going
to work. Draw a symbol of this directly beneath the red symbol under the body. (The
bottom of the page, centered.)
Give blessings to all invoked gods, goddesses, and spirits, using a chant to each quarter
like this:
"Spirits of the east, powers of air, thank you for your presence and aid in this work.
Depart in peace, my thanks and blessings."
Open the circle, release the energy, and say:

39
"To all spirits visible and invisible that have been present in this ritual, depart in peace,
my thanks and blessings."
Hang the resulting picture up somewhere where you can see it often. When you need
any of the specific traits energized in each symbol, simply think of that particular color
and symbol as depicted in your masterpiece!
GENERAL SPELL FOR HOLDING ENERGY
On any night during a waxing moon, light a green candle.
Next to the candle, place a plant and an object that will stay in the room you are working
on.
Have a pitcher of water at hand.
Say aloud:
I ask Vesta and the Universe to join me in placing and holding----energy in this room.
I affirm the power of the elements, fire, earth, air, and water, to grow and hold this----
energy in place. I place water in this plant as a symbol of my heartfelt intention[water the
plant],and i lay my hand on this object as a gesture of grounding this life energy here in
this room[lay your hand on the object].i ask that this be done for the greater good.
So be it.
And so it is.
Blow out the candle. Leave the plant and the object in that room.
You can keep the candle in this room and light it to reenergize" the spell, or you can use
it later
for another room.
When reciting the spell, say the type of energy you want to hold in place, like "joyful
energy” or "healing energy” or "passionate energy".
A SPELL TO GET RID OF UNWANTED GUESTS
**Sprinkle salt in their shoes and imagine them outside your home.**
ANTI CAR ACCIDENT SPELL
You will need;
Strength card from Tarot deck (small deck if you can find it)
Copper wiring
Clover, Star Anise, Catnip
Orange cloth
Orange Candle
Black ribbon
Catnip oil ( or any protection oil you may have)

40
This spell should be cast on a Wednesday, from a Waxing to full moon phase.
Do this spell working the car (truck) you want to protect, parked in a quiet area. Rub oil
into candle and with front door open place candle on ground and light it. Working inside
car, visualize a triple orange light of protection encompassing the car or truck. Sprinkle
some of the herbs around car, especially the steering wheel. Take copper wire and twist
into a cross or star, place copper cross on out side hood of car. Visualize a safety net
coming from copper cross/star and encasing your vehicle (with you in it).
Chanting:
" Taliesin, Merlyn, and Cerridwen,
Protect me now, your safe guard send.
Help me see clearly, on every street.
No accidents, no harm, I will meet.
Copper star, by my fingers made,
Protect me on this very day
Keep me in your orange glow,
behind the wheel, I'm in control.
East then South, then West and North
All directions guarded, from this day forth.
By the law of three, so mote it be.
Now put all herbs, copper cross/star, tarot card, herbs, and drips from candle used into
orange linen bag. Tie with black ribbon and hang in your car.
POPPET FOR REASSURANCE
Gather a piece or paper, one grey crayon, one bright crayon (orange-yellow is good),
matches, and a small item to represent yourself (perhaps apebble). On the left side of
the paper write in grey the word "doubt", and draw a cloud over the word. On the right
side, use the bright crayon to draw a sun with the word "assurance" underneath it. Then
lay the paper before you, placing the symbol of self on the left side. Slowly, while
repeating the phrase:
"From doubt to certainty,
light to mark my way.
Misgivings be gone,
I'm seizing the day."
Move the stone across the page until it sets firmly on the word "assurance".
Next, take a deep breath and tear away the left side of the paper, releasing your breath
as you finish tearing. Burn that side to literally destroy you doubt. Wrap the remaining
paper around the stone or object and carry it to encourage confidence every day

41
To Have Lost Animals Return
The following letter is written on three pieces of birch bark:
I am writing to the forest tsar and forest tsaritsa with their small children; to the earth tsar
and earth tsaritsa with their small children; to the water tsar and water tsartitsa with their
small children. I inform you that (name of owner inserted) has lost a (color mentioned)
horse (or cow, or other animal - distinctive marks should be given). If you have it send it
back without delaying an hour, a minute, a second. If you do not comply with my wish, I
shall pray against you to the great God, Weles and tsaritsa Alexandra.
One letter is fastened to a tree in the forest, the second buried in the earth and the third
thrown with a stone into water. After this, the lost is supposed to return by itself.
To Bring the Rain
If rain was needed a virgin girl was chose, one not yet old enough to conceive whose
mother was no longer able to conceive. Naked, yet draped all over with flowers, she
would whirl around and around while singing invocations to Perun. All the while she
would be "watered" by the surrounding women.
To Win a Fist Fight
Recite while holding a stone from a gravesite:
"I summon to my aid the forest spirits from the forest and the water spirits from the
water: and you, forest spirits of the forest, water spirits of the water, come to my aid
against my opponent fist-fighter, and enable me to defeat my opponent fist-fighter with
my own fists. And you, forest spirits from the forest and water spirits of the water, take
the rock from this corpse and place it on the hands, or head, or feet of my opponent fist-
fighter...and just as this dead man is heavy from the earth and rock, so too may my
opponent fist-fighter be heavy to lift his hand against me,
and may my opponent become weak in the arms and the legs, and blind in the eyes
from my verdict until the time I remove it."
To Guard against Slander
A zagovorui, or runespell, against Slander:
O righteous Sun! Do thou in my foes, my rivals, my opposes, in the powers that be, and
public officials, and in all people of good mouth and heart, parch up evil thoughts and
deeds, so that they may not rise up, may not utter words baleful for me!

42
To Cause One to Wither
Dirt from the victim's footprint was collected and placed in a little bag, or a lock of the
victim's hair was coated with clay. Either of these were hung inside the chimney. As the
dirt or clay dried out, so, supposedly, did the victim.
House Protection Spell Bottle
Since the earliest spell bottles were created for protection, it seems fitting to begin with
one made for this purpose. Ideally, such a bottle will be walled up in a new home under
construction, or placed under the floorboards. If this is impossible, simply place it in a
position of importance somewhere in the home.
Items needed:
1 glass jar with cork stopper or lid (a small canning jar is fine)
1/2 to 1 cup salt (depending on size of the jar)
3 cloves garlic
9 bay leaves
7 TBS dried basil
4 TBS dill seeds
1 TBS sage
1 TBS anise
1 TBS black pepper
1 TBS fennel
1 bowl
In the morning, ideally on a bright and sunny day, assemble all items.
Place the salt into the bowl and say:
Salt that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Add the cloves of garlic to the bowl and say:
Garlic that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Crumble the bay leaves, place in the bowl and say:
Bay that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Add the basil and say:
Basil that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Add dill and say:
Dill that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Add the sage and say:
Sage that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Add the anise and say:
Anise that protects, protect my home and all within it.

43
Add the pepper and say:
Pepper that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Add the fennel and say:
Fennel that protects, protect my home and all within it.
Mix together the herbs and the salt with your hands. Through the movement of your
hands and fingers, lend energy to the potent protective items. Visualize your home as a
shining, safe, guarded, secure place of sanctuary. Pour the mixture into the jar. Seal
tightly and place in your home with the following words:
Salt and herbs, nine times nine
Guard now this home of mine.
It is done.
Money Spell Bottle
Items needed:
5 old pennies
5 dimes
5 quarters (or, five each of three denominations of your country's coin currency, if
outside the United States)
5 kernels of dried corn
5 sesame seeds
5 cinnamon sticks
5 cloves
5 whole allspice
5 pecans
Place each item into a thin, tall bottle, such as a spice bottle. Cap it tightly. Shake the
bottle with your projective hand for five minutes while chanting these or similar words:
Herbs and silver,
Copper and grain;
Work to increase My money gain.
Place the money spell bottle on a table somewhere in your house. Leave your purse,
pocketbook, wallet and/or checkbook near the bottle when at home. Allow money to
come into your life.
It is done.
HOUSE BLESSING SPELL
Start by mixing water and salt, two elements of magick.
Consecrate them. Use garlic salt and add powdered rosemary if you need to clear out
ghosts or spirits. Begin at the main entrance of the house or apartment. Sprinkle some
of the consecrated water by dipping your fingers in it and making the sign of the
pentacle.
Say: Evil shall leave but not enter.

44
Use a firm voice. Make it a commandment, with all of your power behind it. Proceed
counterclockwise through the house, repeating the procedure in every corner of each
room, at all the windows, doors and mirrors. Don't forget telephones, computer modems,
fax machines, intercoms, and televisions that are connected to the Internet. It doesn't
hurt to do the mailbox too. Make the downward pentacle, with your left hand, if this feels
right to you. Or the upward pentacle with your right hand. Either will work.
Repeat the spell annually, or whenever you feel in need of it. It is important to perform a
spell like this one on a new home before you move into it. This spell can be used while
consecrating the salt and water:
O Great Mother
in your name we purify
with water and with salt
cleanse this place of evil
and fill it with your Love
O Great Mother
make this cave a safe space
a warm and dry place
and shelter us from harm
O great Mother
make this house our home
BANISHMENT SPELL
This is a spell for love gone wrong, for ending a personal, family or business relationship
that you no longer wish to be in. I wrote it years ago as an anti-stalking spell, and have
not been troubled by or even laid eyes on the spell's subject since then. It is a fire spell.
To work it, gather herbs of protection and an image of the person (photograph, poppet,
etc.) Something written in their own hand, a lock of hair, a piece of clothing or a personal
object will also do. Put everything into a fireproof container - iron cauldron, marble
mortar, whatever – and set fire to it as you perform the spell. Add the photograph or a
piece of paper with the person's name on it if you have trouble getting the fire going. It
should make a very satisfactory blaze that reduces to ashes. The ashes can be buried
or washed down a drain. Flush them down a toilet if you are very angry. Dispose of all
the objects that connect you to the person: gifts, letters, photographs, etc. It is especially
important to get rid of jewelry. Move house if you have to. Be careful with this spell. It's
permanent, so don't use it unless you really mean forever. It's also powerful. The person
I used it against had a pregnant wife, and their child was born with a hole in its heart.
By the crimson and the gold
by basilisk and bloodstone
by the garlic in the fields
by the poppies and what they yield
invisibly I make my shield
to detect thee and deflect thee
and keep thy harm from me.
By dragon's blood and salamanders
by horses when their hooves strike sparks

45
by the dragon breathing flames
from the Book of Life I erase thy names
I cut the cords and unlock the chains
I sever all the ties by which we were bound
and with impenetrable walls myself I surround
against thy power and its source
against thy evil and its source
Vesta, Pele, Lilith
Kali Kali Kali
I banish thee forever from me
and any harm from thee to me
doubles back and tables turned
thou shalt by thyself be burned
Lilith, Vesta, Pele
Kali Ma Kali Ma
by the power of three times three
I banish thee, I banish thee, I banish thee
I am set free
So mote it be!
VEXATION BOX
This spell is for dealing with someone who is more of an annoyance than a threat,
someone who really gets on your nerves or stresses you out by intruding in your life or
violating your space. It is for someone you have already asked to stop but who persists
in bothering you. It is not a spell
to use on someone whose actions you object to within their own life or space.
You need:
a.. a box
b.. two heads of garlic (or more, if you are using a big box or dealing with a group of
people)
c.. herbs of protection
d.. a photograph of the person, or their name written on a piece of paper
Put everything in the box. Cover the box and give it a good hard shake, mentally yelling
at the person to modify the behavior that annoys you. Put the box away, in a drawer or
up on a shelf. Take it out and give it a hard shake, yelling at them, every time they annoy
you. After the first
week or so you should seldom need to shake the box. Throw the box away in a
few months, when the garlic begins to spoil.
WARNING SPELL
This one is a good substitute for a hex, when your fear or anger tempts you in that
direction. This spell works more on you than it does the other person. It allows you to
take charge of the situation, calms you down so you can find a solution.

46
blood turn black and flesh turn blue
I will curse you if you force me to
by the left hand and the unclean food
I'll curse your eyes, I'll curse your lies
I'll call down a plague of flies
blood go black and flesh go blue
evil from me and back to you
my soul clean and yours on fire
you fuck with a witch you get burned, liar
To remove negative energy picked up from others
Empaths often have difficulty letting go of the emotional garbage and pain they draw
from others. Left unchecked, these left-leftovers can cause anxiety and physical illness.
To remove the overflow, visualize a tiny hole in the small of your back. Mentally move
the negative energy down toward the hole and let it seep out into the Earth. when no
more negative energy remains, close the hole.
A Spell for Communicating
If you want to let someone know you love them, first meditate deeply on your feelings
and discover whether your love is pure. True love exists when you love someone just as
they are, and ask nothing in return. If you want them to change to suit your needs, then
your love is not pure. But if your love is true, cast a circle and write words akin to these
on a parchment scented with rose or pine: "Please know that I love you just as you are,
and I ask nothing in return. Should you ever need a friend, I am here for you. I say this
once, and not again unless you wish me to. I love you." Sign in blue (the color of honor),
and send it. Give thanks for the opportunity to love, and expect nothing more.
Family Full Moon Ritual
This may be done at dinner time, in addition to your own ritual later in the evening. Place
your moon candle (a large white candle, preferably unscented) in the middle of the table
in a bowl made of clear or blue glass, if possible, and filled with water. Use your best
dishes. When
the meal is ready, establish a sacred time and say a mealtime prayer.
Then one child says:
"Why is tonight special?"
An adult answers:
"Tonight is the Full Moon."
The child (or another one) asks:
"Why is that a special time?"
An adult answers:
"The Full Moon is our Mother Who wraps Her arms around us.

47
She guards us and loves us and tonight we return that love."
Another way to do this is for the adults to ask the children the questions and let them
answer in their own words. As they grow, their understanding of the day will change and
there will be a regular opportunity to express it. The mother then lights the moon candle.
She holds it above the table and everyone says:
"The Goddess is shining, high in the sky."
She returns it to the bowl of water and everyone says:
"The Goddess is shining, here in our home."
Everyone crosses their hands on their breasts and says:
"The Goddess is shining, deep in our hearts."
Then have your dinner. At the end, clear away the dinner things. Leave your glasses
and the moon candle. Set the table again with cakes and drinks. Then an adult says:
"We share the gifts of the Goddess with her and each other on the night when she rides
high in the sky."
Pass the cakes around. While you do, one parent says:
"Mother of us all,
Watch over us.
Hug us
Hold us
Wrap us round with your loving arms
and keep us safe until the Moon is full again."
After the cakes are eaten, blow out the moon candle. Then pour the melted wax from it
into the water. It will cool quickly. Use it to divine from, to see what the next month will
bring. For young children, this is a game of "What does it look like?"
As the children go to bed, anoint them with the water, saying:
"May the Moon send you good dreams."
The moon water can also be used for sprinklings, offerings, or watering plants.
Waning of Financial Problems
You will need linking symbols of the problems, one black cord or string, and one green
cord or string, and God and Goddess candles. Work this on a waning moon. Face north,
the direction of earth, and place the linking symbol and the two cords before you and the
God and Goddess candles on either side.
Contemplate your problems, possibly organizing them in sets of three, five, seven, or
nine. Contemplate each one separately as you tie a knot in the cords. Hold the cords
together and knot them. Each knot should represent each problem or groups of
problems.

48
After the knots have been tied, present them to the God and Goddess as your problems.
Have them witness the problems through the linking symbol and cording. Visualize each
problem in its dedicated knot. The problem is the black cord which has attached itself to
your green cord, your financial well-being.
Now ask the Gods to remove these burdens from your life. Ask while accepting the need
to wait, and wait patiently. The spellwork will continue for as many days as there are
knots. As you ask the help of the Gods, untie the first knot, leaving the most important
knots for last. Visualize the burden fading.
For the remaining days, begin by lighting the God and Goddess candles. Present the
problem in the knot and in the symbol. Untie the knot visualizing the burden being lifted.
With the last knot, remove the black cord and bury it. Put the cord completely out of your
mind. The earth will cancel the problems as the Gods lift the burden.
Waxing of Financial Prosperity
After completing the spell described above, retain the green cord for use in this spell.
You will need symbols representing the financial areas in which you need help. Work
this spell during the waxing moon and facing the north.
Construct your work place as previously described. Contemplate your needs, possibly
organizing them in sets of three, five, seven, or nine.
Present your needs, and then present the first need and tie one knot in the cord. Do the
same once for each day until all the knots have been tied.
This binds the meditated energy into the cord. When the spell is completed, carry the
green cord in your wallet or purse until you have received the positive help you need.
Afterward, bury the green cord as you did the black, but not in the same place. Put both
cords out of your mind.
Glamour Spells
Glamour Spell #1
You need one or more pink candles.
A hand held mirror
Love oil
"Dress" candles in love oil
Next light the candles & stare deeply into the mirror
Visualize the change you want.
Recite this incantation aloud:
"Sacred flame, as you dance
Call upon my sacred glance.

49
Call upon my second sight,
Give me (fill in what you want here)
With your light.
Blessed flame, shinning bright,
Give me now my second sight.
Power of three, let them see, let them see"
Glamour Spell #2
You will need:
1 wine glass of water
1 pinch of salt
1 red candle
1 light blue candle
1 red rose (no scars or imperfections for best results)
1 round hand-held mirror
Procedure:
Drop the pinch of salt into the glass of water saying:
"Beauty be within me.
Beauty now set me free."
Carve the symbol of sex into the red candle. Carve a mirror symbol into the light blue
one. Light the two candles, first the light blue one and then the red. Lay the mirror
between the two candles and scry into your reflection. Drop the rose petals one by one
onto the mirror. After this is done, drink the water and say:
"Beauty, beauty come to me.
Beauty, beauty set me free.
Let the candles burn down all the way. "
House Cleansing / Blessing
Assemble a candle, incense, a dish of pure water, a dish of salt, and bless them. Open
all the doors and windows in the house. Take up the salt, and walk around the house
clockwise, going clockwise through each and every room. Throw a pinch of salt into
each corner, and through each doorway and out each window. As you toss it, see it
burning away negativity. Repeat as you go, several times in each room,
"By the power of the salt, I cleanse this house."
Next, light the incense, and again walk clockwise around the house, censing every
corner, and sending the smoke through each doorway, and each open window. See it
blowing away all of the negativity in the house. Repeat as you go, several times in each
room,
"By the power of air, I cleanse this house."

50
Repeat the process, this time with the candle, making sure to shine the light in each
corner, and through each doorway, and each open window. Repeat as you go,
"By the power of fire, I cleanse this house."
Lastly, take up the bowl of water, and repeat your process through the house, sprinkling
the water in each corner, through each open door, and each open window. This time
repeat
"By the power of water, I cleanse this house." as you go, several times in each room.
When you have finished, pause, and walk through the newly cleansed house, feeling the
energy carefully. If the cleansing needs repeating, do so, but rarely will it need to be
done a second time.
If this is being done for a friend, a token should be left for them.
Aquarius Energy Spell
To promote freedom, you may turn to Aquarian energy. To start, gather thirteen ribbons
of any color, a bag of buttons, and needle and thread. On a Wednesday, sew as many
buttons as possible on each piece of ribbon, saving about two inches at the top. When
you have finished, tie or sew the ribbons together at the top, and hold your hands over
your work as you state your intentions. Make the sign of Uranus (S) and Aquarius (k) in
the air over the project, then take the ribbons outside and hang them from a tree, porch
railing, or other spot, as you say:
"From heaven to earth, from Earth to heaven, the winds circle about my desire,
carrying my thoughts to the gods of the universe and returning with the gift of
positive abundance.
So mote it be."
Allow the project to hang outside until your wish has been granted
"The Queen of Hearts she made some tarts all on a summer day.
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts, and took them quite away
Full Moon Spell for your Body
This Full Moon (at 19 degrees of Virgo) can be the start of a health and wellness
campaign. Virgo rules health, nutrition, your work environment, co-workers, and
obligations. To start, burn a green or white candle while meditating on your body and
health, and how you can improve your wellness. You may think about steps as simple as
taking a multivitamin every day to starting a whole body workout plan with a diet change
or anything in between.

51
If you take care of yourself, life will feel better. Identify stress makers in your life and
make a plan to cope with them better. Just identifying stress and telling yourself you can
cope and deal with it is half the battle. Release any built-up stress as the candle burns.
Reward yourself with a
bubble bath, massage, or makeover, and feel how good your body can be when you
take care of yourself.
Baby Blessing Ritual
The timing of this ritual is up to the parents, but waiting for a waxing to Full Moon is
probably
best for positive growth energies. If done at home, the crib can be decorated with daisy,
lavender, and parsley for protection and bounty. If performed elsewhere, the parents
may wish to carry sprigs of fresh herbs which have significant symbolism and keep
these with the child during the ritual. Afterwards, dry them as a keepsake. This ritual,
sometimes called Wiccaning, often marks the naming of the child and welcomes a new
soul to this world.
Invocation
A canopy of eventide spreads dark from out the glen,
With ravens wings, a rising moon, and blessings that we send.
To you, our friends, we build a bridge to span the air and sea,
With beams of light and lavender that magic might move free.
To touch the hearts of those we love,
This child whom now, we bless
With songs of hope and harmony, sealed with a holy kiss
We call upon the Goddess Mine, to hold _________ in
Her arms With hands of warmth and comforting,
And keep you ever safe from harm.
From Earth wise
Spell to Avert Curse
Tools.
1.. 4 White candles for purity and love.
2.. 4 Red candles for strength and health.
3.. 1 Black candle to absorb evil (use a small one).
4.. 1 candle for subject, in astral colors, and with sigils on it representing the subject, e.g.
zodiac sign.
5.. Anointing oil with purifying and sanitizing properties e.g. 10 drops lemon or
lemongrass, and 10 drops sandalwood or frankincense in base oil.
6.. Usual ritual requirements, such as God and Goddess candles, incense, quarter
candles, and athame.

52
Method.
a.. Anoint all candles, working to middle from top and bottom for each one, visualizing
the purpose of each one.
b.. Set up subject's candle with God and Goddess candle on either side.
Light them and say:
"This is _____ who has been cursed and burdened with evil fortune. May the God and
Goddess come to his/her aid."
c.. Now set up the white candles around these , light them and say:
"This is the circle of purity and love, surrounding _____ to dispel the misfortune and turn
away all evil, to wrap _____ in protective love and keep him/her safe"
Visualize the white light about the subject.
d.. Set up the red candles around the circle of white ones, light them and say:
"This is the circle of strength around _____ to act as a strong barrier against evil and to
send back all mischief to its source, with understanding; and to bring _____ back to full
spiritual health."
Visualize the red light about you.
e.. Finally put the black candle next to the subject's candle, light and say:
"This is the candle of absorption. Let all evil, misfortune and wickedness, all curses
begone from _____ into this instrument of the Gods."
Visualize all evil leaving the subject as a murky cloud, leaving the subject clear, and see
the murk being absorbed in the black candle.
f.. Then withdraw the black candle through the flames of each white and red candle in
turn. As it burns down outside the double circle of red and white candles, chant softly but
ever faster, and gradually ever louder:
"All evil misfortune beg one, be ended! Let the curse cease, and _____ mended."
g.. Let the candle burn out completely, pick up the remaining black wax - ALL OF IT - ,
put it in a decomposable container, and bury it in a lonely place somewhere.
h.. Now perform the Pagan banishing Rite over that place to remove all lingering evil in
that area.
Spell to Find Lost Objects
Tools
1.. Mirror.
2.. Orange candle.
3.. Black candle.
4.. Small Magnet.
5.. Usual ritual requirements, such as incense, quarter candles, and athame.

53
Method.
a.. First create the Circle and invoke the Elemental Guardians.
b.. Raise a cone of power by chanting and drumming, or racing around the circle.
c.. Then light a Black candle (for solving mysteries, and drawing away the negativeness
of the loss), an Orange candle (for luck and precious objects).
d.. Visualise the lost objects in the mirror as already being found.
e.. Place the magnet between the two candles and stroke it towards you as you recite
this rhyme:
f.. "By the wavering flame of this black light,
Grant to me of my jewelry a sight.
By the power of this orange flame,
Give me luck to find the same.
In this mirror the jewelry I see
Make the magnet draw them to me."
g.. Substitute the name of the object for the word "jewelry". Say this three times.
h.. Close the circle, but leave the candles burning with the magnet between them until
the candles burn right down.
Spell to Restore Peace to an Unhappy Home
Tools
1.. Black candle.
2.. Astral candles of those in the home.
3.. Yellow-green candle.
4.. Light blue candle.
5.. Deity candles - eg white and black, or Gold and Silver.
6.. Incense- frankincense is good.
7.. Votive candle - white is good.
Method.
a.. Light Deity Candles and the incense.
b.. Sit and meditate on the goal to be accomplished.
c.. Light the Astral Candles of those in the home, which are placed approximately 13"
from each other.
d.. Think hard of each person, saying as the Candles are lit, "This candle represents
<Name> . As it burns, so burns his/her spirit."
e.. Write down the faults and problems that beset the home. Discuss them with the
others.
f.. Then light the Votive Candle, visualizing the start of a new day and new turn for the
better, e.g. visualize turning over an old brown leaf and finding it green and vibrant on
the other side.
g.. Light the Yellow-Green Candle (for Anger, and Jealousy and Discord).
h.. Say, "Here burns away all negative emotions from <Name> and <Name>, leaving
only love and happiness.
It is in our house; it is all about us.

54
There is tranquility in our home.
Peace and love abound and are with us.
For true happiness now is known.
Understanding and love are there in abundance;
discord and chaos are fled.
For be it ever thus, that as patience and love do grow and prosper,
so barren become the fields of doubt and distress.
Happiness is the light that burns and darkness all away is sent.
The home is peace; peace is the home."
i.. Meditate for 3-5 minutes on settling the disturbed conditions in the home.
j.. Now hold up the paper containing the problems, and burn it in the Votive Candle.
k.. Visualize all the problems vanishing.
l.. Move the Astral Candles closer to each other.
m.. Light the Black Candle (for Destruction of Negativity).
n.. Repeat the words, then meditate for 3-5 minutes on the problems having gone.
o.. Move the Astral Candles further closer to each other.
p.. Light the Light Blue Candle (for Peace and Understanding).
q.. Finally repeat the words once more, then meditate for another 3-5 minutes on the
new peaceful condition of the home.
r.. Move the Astral candles even closer to each other.
s.. Hug and kiss each other and call out "Hurrah" or other such words expressing joy
and relief and victory.
t.. Then extinguish the Votive Candle, and then the Astral and Day candles.
Note: The spell is even more powerful if it is repeated on 3 consecutive days, with
different day candles, and letting the Astral candles touch each other only at the third
incantation on the third day. There is no need to write down the problems on the second
or third day. However, the spell may be only performed once, in which case, the Astral
candles should touch other at the third incantation.
The ashes of the "problem paper" can be gleefully flushed down the toilet.
COURT CHARM
High John the conqueror root
Galagal(low John)
5-inch square red cloth
purple ribbon or yarn
Burn a small amount of High John the conqueror root for fourteen consecutive nights.
Mix the ashes with one teaspoon of Galangal and place the mixture in the center of the
cloth. Gather the edges of the cloth together and secure with the ribbon or yarn. Carry
the charm with you into the court to gain favor of the judge and jury.
CHARM FOR LEGAL SUCCESS
Carry a pair of large hickory nuts to court in your pocket to enhance your chances of
legal success. Empowering them first by chanting:

55
Nuts so rich, your powers lend;
Tip the scales of justice-let me win.
Legal Assistance Powders...
~source unknown~
"Success Powder"
Gold Candle, Gold Talc as a base
Orris root (protector of success and drawing power), Frankincense (Luck!),
Vetivert (Luck and Money), Sandalwood,(wishes) Gold Glitter
best time to make in ritual: Thurs. in hour of Jupiter (I believe this is dawn... check your
almanac and correspondences!)
"Legal Assistance Powder"
Black Candle, Black talc
High john the Conqueror (Protection), Clove, Sage (Protection and Wisdom),
Rosemary (Protection), Pipe Tobacco (Purification)
Sprinkle in shoes when dealing with case, and for trial...also, you can
sprinkle it around the court house the night before if possible!
Best time to make: Tues in hour of Mars (Dawn on Tues!)
To Keep from Going to Court or for Winning in Court
One yellow seven-day-candle
One purple seven-day candle
Five blue votive candles
Your name, the court docket number, name of the case, and the name of the attorney on
a small piece of paper
Cinquefoil
Powdered mustard
Place the paper with your name, your attorney's name, the court docket number, and the
name of the case under the purple seven-day candle. Dress yellow, purple and blue
candles with rose oil. Inscribe the sign of Jupiter on the four blue candles with a pin or
nail. Surround the purple candle with the blue candles. One brown candle (any size).
Rose oil. The names of those testifying against you one a different small piece of paper.
Say:
"The Goddess reigns supreme. She is clothed with the sun, the moon beneath her feet.
She holds in her arms the strength of the universe. She cannot be dethroned. She is joy,
truth, order and hope. None can depose her. She is the beginning and the end of all
things. The God is my protector and my champion, and lends his power to her. The
floods of discontent have lifted up against me, threatening to engulf me. The waves are
the many voices of my enemies. The Lord and Lady are mightier than the many waves
of mine enemies' sea. My testimony and those who testify for me will be sure, strong,
and winning. In the names of the Lord and Lady, victory shall be mine!"

56
Clap your hands to seal the spell.
Sprinkle cinquefoil and powdered mustard on the paper with the names of those who are
against you. Place the names of those testifying against you under the brown candle.
Light the remaining candles, and say:
"Plead my cause, Goddess, with them that strive against me. Fight against them that
wish to harm me, or who speak out against me. Take hold of your shield and sword, my
Lady and Lord, and stand up for me. Draw out the spear and stop the way against those
that persecute me. Let them be confounded and shamed that seek to hurt me. Let them
be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my pain. Let them be as chaff
before the wind; and let their Karma chase them. My Lady, Great Goddess of the
angels, send your messengers on the wild hunt, seeking them out, bringing their actions
to rest in their own arms. Send them to the pit they, Themselves, have dug. Let their
karmic destruction come upon them at unawares and let his/her words catch them and
snare them in their own deceit. Rescue me, my Lord and Lady from this adversity. Let
not my enemies rejoice over me. Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion
together that rejoice over my hurt; let them be clothed with shame and dishonor, and
may it be magnified against them. Rise up now, great Lord and Lady, and deliver justice
in my favor! So mote it be."
Clap your hands to seal the spell. Allow all candles to burn completely.
Note: If you have a sword among your magickal tools, then hold the sword above your
head as you intone the words to the spell. This spell will not work if you are guilty.
Good Luck Spell
It's best to perform this one while the moon is waxing. For this spell you'll need a candle
to represent yourself in whatever color you think appropriate, a grey candle, a black
candle and an orange candle.
Light the candle that represents yourself and say: 'This is me, me in all things'.
Light the black candle and say: 'This is all the bad luck that has dragged my footsteps.
Trouble, disappointments and tears are here. This bad luck now leaves me forever'.
Light the grey candle and say: 'All that was bad is neutralized. All my bad luck is
dissolved'.
Light the orange candle and say: 'This is the energy coming my way, to get my life
moving and speed up the change'.
Sit quietly for a while and visualize the negative energies being whisked into the grey
candle and dissolved into empty nothingness. Visualize the orange candle drawing good
energy and good luck towards you, see the air stirring about with possibilities and
opportunities. Let the candles burn down completely (take the usual safety precautions).

57
Good luck spell
Tools you will need are:
Protection Incense (herbs or oils work fine also)
Blue 8" Taper Candle
Paper
Pen
Heat resistant bowl
Prepare your work area by setting up any tools you may use in addition to your spell
candle.
While setting up your area, CONCENTRATE on the purpose of your work.
Envision what it is that you desire. For this spells' purpose, it is best to have an idea of
what you want, as opposed to general good luck.
Just prior to your work, bathe in purification herbs, or with your favorite bath salts. While
you are bathing, concentrate again on the purpose of your spell. Do not let negative
thoughts enter your mind!
After bathing, go to your work area. Cast a circle. Light the protection incense. Envision
a large, light-blue ball of light surrounding you and your work area. Hold the blue candle
between the palms of your hands, close your eyes, and direct all of your energy into the
candle. Open your eyes and place the candle in its holder.
On a small piece of paper, write down what it is that you want (money, job, etc.). Place
this piece of paper under the candle holder.
Prior to lighting the candle, say (either aloud, or to yourself):
"This candle represents the good luck that will come to me"
Light the candle and say (either aloud or to yourself):
"As the light of this flame grows, I can see good luck around me. "
Sit back and watch the candle burn. Envision what you will look and feel like when your
wish comes to you. See yourself holding with the object you desire, or with the desired
goal you wish to achieve.
When the candle had burned 1/3 of the way, say
"As the flame of the candle dissipates with time-good luck will be mine."
Continue to do your meditation, envisioning the light blue ball of light around you, seeing
yourself how you will be when your good luck arrives.
When the candle has burned 2/3 of the way, repeat
"As the flame of this candle dissipates with time-good luck will be mine".
Continue to meditate as the candle burns.

58
When the candle has almost burned away, burn the piece of paper with your written
words and place the ashes into a heat-resistant bowl. Repeat the affirmation
"As the flame of this candle dissipates with time-good luck will be mine".
Extinguish the candle by blowing on it and envisioning bad luck also being swept away
by your breath.
After the candle's leftover wax has cooled-, combine the ashes and wax together and
bury it in the earth as close to your home as possible.
LUCK BALL CHARM
Have a small amount of whiskey on hand as it is necessary to give this charm a 'drink'
as it is being made. Take 16 pieces of white yarn, each 36 inches long and 16 pieces of
white thread the same length.....fold each piece 4 times until it is 9 inches long. Take 4
of the yarn and 4 of the thread and lay them together ends matching. Now tie the
strands together making a 4 knotted skein.... repeat with the remaining pieces so that 4
skeins are made with a total of 16 knots. The skeins are then rounded into a nest and a
small amount of whiskey is sprinkled over it. In the center of the nest is placed a small
ball of tinfoil, some Red Clover herb, and Goofer Dust (graveyard dirt and i mix mullein
and pachouli powder with it). Wrap the nest and its contents tight with more white yarn
and secure with a tight knot. When finished it should look like a ball. Again.....sprinkle
whiskey on it...... Wrap the ball in tinfoil and then wrap in red silk. Put the finished ball in
a bag and either hide it or carry it in a pocket......Once a week the ball should be taken
out of the bag and receive its 'drink' of whiskey to keep up its strength........
Fire Flower Spell
Wear or burn the essence of the flower while speaking your will or burn a candle beside
the flower until it opens
Water Flower Spell
Throw the flower in a body of water and speak your will or soak the petals in water all
night under a full moon and drink it while calling the powers.
Earth Flower Spell
Surround yourself with flowers or plant its seed while
concentrating on your intend.

59
Air Flower Spell
Visualize the flower encompassing you or write your wish on a piece of paper and place
it under the vase containing the flower until it blooms. To answer a question, place it
beside your bed for a revealing dream.
Wish Spell
Pick a dogwood flower at midnight on Midsummer eve. As you do, whisper your wish to
the spirit of that plant.
Wish Spell # 2
Go outside at sunrise. Pick a morning glory or other flower associated with the
movement of the sun. Make a simple wish upon it as the sun peeks over the horizon.
Wish Spell # 3
Get a small piece of driftwood. On it write/carve your wish. Turn your back to the waves,
throw the wood over your left shoulder for luck. Let the sea carry your desire to its goal.
Luck Spell
If you write your wish on a sage leaf then sleep on it, your dreams will tell you if your
desire will come to pass.
To Attract Money
If you live near a beach, take a small amount of seaweed home and place it in a jar. fill
the jar with whiskey and place it in a sunny window. Shake it everyday.
SIMPLE BANISHING SPELL
This is just a simple banishing spell. It's for when you continue to let the past run your
future and the like.
Materials: a white piece of paper, no lines, any size is fine
A writing utensil A lighter
Write the name of the person who is constantly in your thoughts three times on the sheet
of paper followed by an affirmation, such as "I will no longer allow you to have control

60
over my life." Read the affirmation out loud to yourself. While continuing the affirmation,
burn the piece of paper.
This spell is really quite easy. You can use computer paper, a pen, and even a match if
you don't have a lighter. :
Quickening Moon
February's Quickening Moon hastens the energy in and around you. Try this Full Moon
ritual to make a wish come true.
Assemble the needed tools:
a large bowl
one red candle
herbs (basil, cinnamon, clover, ginger, lavender, sage, marjoram,
jasmine, black tea)
wooden spoon
scissors
natural material (cotton, silk or leather)
Light the red candle and ask your spirit guides to help you. Place the herbs in the bowl
and crush them with the spoon. A small mound of Wish Quickening Powder will be the
end result. Take a pinch of the powder and burn as incense while cutting the material
into a circle. Place the powder in the center of the circle, gather up the sides and secure
with a strip of the material. Take your newly fashioned pouch to quiet place where water
runs, such as a river, stream or bathroom sink. Open the pouch, pour some powered
into your hand, close your eyes and say "As I give my wish to you, water make my wish
come true." Now toss the powder in to the running water. The water will carry your wish
to fruition.
JUSTICE CHANT
The chant below brings swift justice to those who treat you unfairly.
Take caution in using it, though, especialy if you have behaved inappropriately. Hecate's
justice knows no bounds. She sees to it that all involved get precisely what they
deserve.
Hecate, Dark One, hear my plea.
Bring justice now, I ask of Thee!
Right the wrongs that have been done,
Avenge me now, oh Mighty One.
Turn misfortune back to those
Who caused my problems and my woes.
And heap upon them karmic debt
Lest they all too soon forget
Their wrongful actions, words and deeds
Don't let them get away scot-free.
Bring them forth from where they hide,
Bring swift justice--wield your knife.

61
Hasten, Dark One; hear my plea--
Do what I ask of Thee.
CHARM FOR LEGAL SUCCESS
Carry a pair of large hickory nuts to court in your pocket to enhance your chances of
legal success. Empowering them first by chanting:
Nuts so rich, your powers lend;
Tip the scales of justice-let me win.
Protection Spell
This is a spell to protect a person from the criticism and hate of another.
--Can be done during any phase of the moon
You must have something that is connected to the person, like a piece of handwriting, a
picture, hair, etc. Place this in a container, and set it aflame. While it is burning, chant:
Away from me Away from me Away from me Away from me
This spell won't keep the person away, but you will have a friendlier relationship with
them than before.
FOR BEAUTIFUL SKIN
To make your skin radiate with natural beauty, gather together one ounce each of anise,
fennel, caraway and celery seeds and another ounce each of parsley and sassafras
roots. The night before a full moon, mash the seeds to a pulp and cut the roots into small
pieces. Put seeds and roots into a jar along with a cup of white wine. Let the mixture
stand, uncovered, overnight. In the morning, transfer it to a pot and boil away one third
of the liquid. Strain out and discard the herbs and pour the remaining juice into a glass.
When the full moon rises, drink it. (It tastes terrible, but generations of satin skinned
gypsy girls swear by it.)
To banish a blemish, such as a pimple, wart or corn, rub a pea bean (the kind used in
baked beans) on the blemish; then bury the bean. As it decays, your blemish will dry up
and disappear. (Use a different bean for each blemish.)
To prevent wrinkles, put a bunch of dried primrose petals in a jar and place a pale blue
candle in front of it. Burn the candle down to its socket. Each time you wash your face,
throw a handful of the petals into the basin. Fill it with warm water and use as the next-
to-last-rinse.

62
To remove freckles, go out early in the morning and gather a teaspoon of the dew that's
settled on the grass and bushes. Mix this with a teaspoon of rosewater and a few drops
of olive oil; then dab it on the freckled area. Do this every day for a week; even stubborn
freckles should disappear.
FOR BEAUTIFUL HAIR
To keep hair generally healthy, make certain that all your haircuts are scheduled during
a new moon. Hair that's cut during a full or waning moon loses its luster and may thin or
turn gray prematurely. If your hair is already dull or lifeless, try this ancient ritual to
enrich its color. Steal a few strands of hair from someone who's blessed with a thick,
shiny mane. (Make certain that the hair is a natural shade; if it's dyed, it won't do.) Put
the strands in a pot with two cups of water and a drop of your blood. Bring to a boil.
When the liquid cools, pour it over your own head, and spread through your hair.
For thinning hair, try this old, and not hard-to-take remedy. Each night before bedtime,
put a pinch of red pepper into a half cup of vodka and drink it. Continue until the
condition is cured.
TO LOSE WEIGHT
Often, spells combine their magic with a little simple psychology. This popular formula
for losing weight is just such a combination. Outline the figure you want to have on a full
length photograph or drawing of yourself. Place the picture in a spot where you'll see it
often for instance, on your stove or refrigerator. On the first night of the full moon, snip a
fragment of your excess weight from the picture and say:
"As the moon wanes,
so may I decrease."
Repeat the procedure each night until the new moon appears. (Of course, in the
meantime you're doing your best to curb your appetite.) If you still have weight to lose at
the end of the allotted time, start the spell again, with a new picture, at the next full
moon.
TO GAIN WEIGHT
Simply reverse the above process if you want to add pounds. Draw an outline of the
fuller figure you'd like around a picture of yourself. At the new moon, start to color in the
outline while saying:

63
"As the moon grows,
so may I increase."
FOR RESTFUL SLEEP
If a problem-ridden day has left you too nervous to sleep one night, brew a tea from
thyme and basil leaves. (One teaspoon each of the leaves, steeped in a cup of boiling
water.) Drink it, piping hot, before going to bed. This tea relieves the cares of a troubled
mind.
For a full-blown case of insomnia, put a head of lettuce into a blender and reduce it to a
liquid. Gently rub this on your forehead and temples for a few minutes before going to
bed. If you still can't sleep, liquefy another head of lettuce the next night, but drink it this
time.
If you have nightmares, take the stockings you've worn during the day and cross the
legs to form an X. At the point where the stockings cross, thread in a silver (or silver
colored) pin, and hang the stockings at the foot of your bed before you go to sleep. If
your nightmares are persistent, try this very strong, but rather inconvenient, ritual. Put a
black blanket, sheets and pillowcases on your bed. Turn out the lights before you
undress; change into a black nightgown and quietly slip into bed. In theory, the night
demons that plague you won't be able to find you in all that blackness.
TO PREVENT COLDS
Like modern science, witchcraft has no cure for common colds but it does have ways to
prevent them. According to one ancient method, you should go to an oak tree on a chilly
autumn day, and catch a leaf as it falls off the tree; put your catch into a bureau drawer
at home and say:
"Summer leaf, let me feel not winter's storm.
Through chill and wind keep me safe and warm."
Or, peel a small, raw potato by the light of a pale blue candle all the while concentrating
on your wish to stay free of colds. Carry the potato in your pocket or purse. (This method
has one drawback; no matter how shriveled the potato becomes, You must carry the
same one all winter.)

64
TO BREAK A FEVER
a "fire" in the body. How to put out a fire? With water, naturally. Thus, this old spell.
Make seven knots in a piece of string; cast the string over your left shoulder into a
running stream (or river) and say:
"Water take this fever from me.
Carry it from here far out to the sea."
TO CURE A HEADACHE
When your head is throbbing, try this.
1. 	Braid together four red and three yellow ribbons.
2. 	Tie the braid loosely around your head and go on with your usual work.
3. 	Within an hour or so your headache should go away.
Another headache remedy can also be used for any minor pain, such as a toothache,
stiff joint, etc.
1. 	Simply take a small piece of iron or a magnet and rub it over the painful area.
2. 	As you rub, tell the ache to be drawn from you to the metal.
3. 	Then take it off your land and bury it (not too close to someone else's home
unless you want to give him your ache).
LOVE DOLL TO WIN YOUR LOVE
The best-known way of getting a man to fall in love with you is to bewitch him through a
doll that represents him. Ideally, you should make the doll yourself. Carve it from some
natural material such as wax, wood or clay; bake a doughboy (be sure to use lots of
spices), or sew a rag doll. A store bought figure can be used, but it won't be nearly as
powerful as the homemade.
Some very personal belongings of the man you want to enchant, a lock of his hair, a
fingernail clipping, something he's worn should be incorporated into, or attached to, the
doll. Add also one of your nail clippings, a strand of your hair, etc. Use as many of these
personal things as possible the more links you create between you, your beloved and
the doll, the stronger your spell.
Start the ritual on the first day of the new moon. Name the doll, aloud, after the man and
scratch or write his name on the figure. For writing, your blood is best, but if you use ink
(red, of course) add a drop of your blood to it.

65
Next, using a thorn or pin, gently prick the figure's heart (don't overdo it or you kill him)
saying:
"As this thorn (pin) pierces your heart,
so let it be pierced with love for me."
Or wrap the doll in three ribbons of different colors; black, white and red are often used,
but you may choose any shades. As you wrap say:
"Threads bind; body entwine;
Heart find linked to mine."
If you've baked your doll, eat a piece of it every night, saying,
"As you become part of me,
so let me become part of you."
Do any one of these rituals, but always the same one, for fifteen minutes each evening
until the moon is full; at the next new moon, start again.
If be doesn't respond soon enough, light a red candle and lightly singe the doll's feet,
saying:
"For you I yearn.
For me you burn."
Before long, his feet should carry him straight to you (unless you've burned them too
badly).
When you're not working with your doll, wrap it in a clean cloth of silk, linen or cotton
never a synthetic fabric and put it away where no one but yourself can find it.
Copyright © 2004 	www.witchcraftexposed.com, Bogdan and
Giancarlo. All Rights Reserved
