Coffee
Cooking Tips
Recipes & Food and Drink
Wine & Spirits
Elder Care
Babies & Toddler
Pregnancy
Acne
Aerobics & Cardio
Alternative Medicine
Beauty Tips
Depression
Diabetes
Exercise & Fitness
Hair Loss
Medicine
Meditation
Muscle Building & Bodybuilding
Nutrition
Nutritional Supplements
Weight Loss
Yoga
Martial Arts
Finding Happiness
Inspirational
Breast Cancer
Mesothelioma & Cancer
Fitness Equipment
Nutritional Supplements
Weight Loss
Affiliate Revenue
Blogging, RSS & Feeds
Domain Name
E-Book
E-commerce
Email Marketing
Ezine Marketing
Ezine Publishing
Forums & Boards
Internet Marketing
Online Auction
Search Engine Optimization
Spam Blocking
Streaming Audio & Online
Music
Traffic Building
Video Streaming
Web Design
Web Development
Web Hosting
Web Site Promotion
Broadband Internet
VOIP
Computer Hardware
Data Recovery & Backup
Internet Security
Software
Advertising
Branding
Business Management
Business Ethics
Careers, Jobs & Employment
Customer Service
Marketing
Networking
Network Marketing
Pay-Per-Click Advertising
Presentation
Public Relations
Sales
Sales Management
Sales Telemarketing
Sales Training
Small Business
Strategic Planning
Entrepreneur
Negotiation Tips
Team Building
Top Quick Tips
Book Marketing
Leadership
Positive Attitude Tips
Goal Setting
Innovation
Success
Time Management
Public Speaking
Get Organized - Organization
Credit
Currency Trading
Debt Consolidation
Debt Relief
Loan
Insurance
Investing
Mortgage Refinance
Personal Finance
Real Estate
Taxes
Stocks & Mutual Fund
Structured Settlements
Leases & Leasing
Wealth Building
Home Security
Mobile & Cell Phone
Video Conferencing
Satellite TV
Dating
Relationships
Game
Casino & Gambling
Humor & Entertainment
Music & MP3
Photography
Golf
Attraction
Motorcycle
Fashion & Style
Crafts & Hobbies
Home Improvement
Interior Design & Decorating
Landscaping & Gardening
Pets
Marriage & Wedding
Holiday
Fishing
Aviation & Flying
Cruising & Sailing
Outdoors
Vacation Rental
Book Reviews
College & University
Psychology
Science Articles
Religion
Personal Technology
Humanities
Language
Philosophy
Poetry
Book Reviews
Medicine
Coaching
Creativity
Dealing with Grief & Loss
Motivation
Spirituality
Stress Management
Article Writing
Writing
Political
Copywriting
Parenting
Divorce


Matthew Sprange
Contents
2 Introduction
4 Demonology - An Overview
7 To Tread the Dark Road
13 The Art of Summoning - First Steps
21 The Art of Summoning - The
Neophyte
29 The Art of Summoning - The Dark
Road
35 Bound Demons
41 Demonological Feats
42 Magical Items
44 Help for Games Masters
50 Other Races
52 Demonic Entities
62 Designer's Notes
63 OGL/D20 Licence
64 Rules Summary
Credits
Editor
Alexander Fennell
Cover Art
Anne Stokes
Additional Text
Mike Major, Teresa Capsey
Interior Illustrations
Chris Quilliams, Anne Stokes, Nathan Webb,
Anthea Dilly, Eric Lofgren, Rick Hershey,
Scott Purdy
Proof Reading
Ian Barstow
Special Thanks
Harris Rotman, Dave 'Gook' Wilson,
William J. Pennington
Open Game Content & Copyright Information
Encyclopaedia Arcane: Demonology is ©2001 Mongoose Publishing. All rights reserved. Reproduction without the written permission of the
publisher is expressly forbidden. Encyclopaedia Arcane: Demonology is presented under the Open Game and D20 Licences. See pages 63 for
the text of these licences. All demons are presented as Open Game Content. All other significant characters, names, places, items, art
and text herein are copyrighted by Mongoose Publishing. All rights reserved. "D20 System" and the D20 System logo are trademarks
owned by Wizards of the Coast and are used under the terms of the D20 System trademark licence contained herein. The mention of
or reference to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark or copyright concerned. Dungeons and
Dragons ® and Wizards of the Coast ® are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast, and are used in accordance with the Open Game and
D20 Trademark Licences contained herein.
MONGOOSE PUBLISHING
Mongoose Publishing, PO Box 1018, Swindon, SN3 IDG, United Kingdom
info@mongoosepublishing.com
Visit the Mongoose Publishing website at www.mongoosepublishing.com for regular updates, new spells, fiction
and much, much more.

INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
Welcome, mortal, to Demonology - The
Dark Road. Within these secret pages
you will find the most forbidden
knowledge of all - that of summoning, binding and
ultimately controlling the demons, devils and fiends
of the infernal planes. This book is not for the faint
of heart for only the strongest of wills may dare to
dabble in the blackest art of all. The perils are great
and the dangers terrifying but for those willing to
gamble their very souls, the rewards are far greater
than any mortal can possibly conceive.
The demons of the infernal planes are unlike
anything within normal human experience. They
are immortal creatures, utterly evil and twisted to
the core, consumed with their own selfish and often
unfathomable ends. Such beings delight in
corrupting and perverting all that is good and
wholesome, enjoying the temptation of mortals with
promises that may never be fulfilled. Their capacity
for hatred, cruelty and spite are infinite.
The practice of demonology, that is, the study and
control of beings from the infernal planes, is one of
lengthy research and sheer force of personality. The
strength of mind required to hold the most minor of
demons in check is beyond the imagination of most
and many practitioners over-reach themselves too
quickly, with fatal results. Many choose not to
understand the power of this discipline and art, and
thus demonologists are usually solitary in nature,
consumed by their studies and progress to greater
understanding. Most are vilified or actively fought
against by those ignorant of the sheer strength that
can be unleashed and used for the good as much as
the ill. But all who follow the Dark Road are united
in the knowledge that theirs is but a narrow path,
with a precipice of damnation awaiting one fatefully
placed wrong step.
ENCYCLOPAEDIA
ARCANE
Demonology - The Dark Road heralds a new series
from Mongoose Publishing based around new and
exciting forms of magic. Designed to be seamlessly
slotted into any fantasy-based D20 games system,
the Encyclopaedia Arcane series does far more than
merely introduce new spells to extend existing
magic-using character classes. Instead, each book
will cover a completely new form of magic, adding
a whole new dimension to campaigns. Such arts are
not just intended for Games Masters to use in
conjunction with Non-Player Characters, however.
Each book of the Encyclopaedia Arcane gives full
details for players themselves to try the new magic
system, along with plenty of information to aid
Games Masters in the introduction of each book into
his campaign.
DEMONOLOGY — THE
DARK ROAD
This, the first of the Encyclopaedia Arcane series,
gives players and Games Masters alike all the
information they need to begin using demonology
within their campaign. You will find chapters
devoted to those who dare to summon almost
uncontrollable energies, the rituals used to bind
these powers and also individual demonic entities.
New feats and magic items are introduced to aid the
fledgling demonologist along his path, whilst Games
Masters may take no little delight in applying these
rules to the most evil of races, creating the arch-
nemesis of any party.
Demonology is not for the weak of will and any
practitioner's greatest ally is knowledge. With
proper research and a diligent attention to detail,
however, one can unleash and control some of the
mightiest powers available
to any mortal of the
material world.
2

INTRODUCTION
The old man looked up from his book as the bell above the door of his shop chimed softly announcing the
entrance of a potential customer. He squinted through the accumulating gloom at a young man, well-kept and
wearing the baggy robes currently in vogue for those styling themselves wizards. The aged sage snorted softly
at the manicured hands and carefully trimmed beard of the lad. He had seen this sort often enough, probably
knew just enough to entertain the ladies he wished to coax to his sheets. The old man muttered to himself and
went, back to his reading.
Curse that fool Marius, Santado thought to himself. This shrivelled old man could not possibly be the
legendary Falun, tutor to half of the Red Tower mages. He just looks like a doddering old curmudgeon who
would scarce know the difference between iron and apple seeds.
'Excuse me, sir, is there a Falun here?' Santado decided that perhaps the old man was Falun's father and
might know his whereabouts.
The old man blinked, 'Falun? Not heard that name in many years, who wants to know?'
'I am Santado, I was told that this Falun fellow could show me the Dark Road.' Santado smiled hopefully.
The old man squinted over the jumble of vials and twists of herb-filled parchment scattered on the counter
before him, 'Well, I'm Falun, for that part of your question, but the Dark Road? Never heard of it.'
Something in the way the old man chewed at his wispy moustache named him a liar. His young customer
pressed further for the information he sought.
'It was intimated you were a guide to those seeking to travel such a path. Perhaps there is one who knows
more that I have mistaken you for . . .'
The old sage straightened to his full height, 'There is none more knowledgeable than me in any matters
magical. Any who says otherwise is a liar.'
The young man changed his approach, 'If it is a matter of money, I've more than enough gold to pay for my
instruction. Name your price.'
Falun rolled his eyes, 'Listen, boy, you couldn't haggle your way out of an open sack and you're as subtle as a
goat with gas. What makes you think you'd be able to bargain with a fiend?'
T made no mention of fiends. Perhaps I speak with the correct person after all.'
The old man bristled and grumbled to himself, 'Shifty little bastard got you there you old codger. Mayhap
you're getting too old for this.' The frowning sage glared at his customer and shook his head.
'I can show you the Dark Road, boy, but the work and the danger will be yours alone.'

DEMONOLOGY - AN OVERVIEW
DEMONOLOGY—
AN OVERVIEW
There are many misconceptions surrounding
the active practising of demonology. It is
often called the Dark Road, the Forbidden
Path or the Black Art. It immediately conjures up
images of blood-soaked rituals, of the sacrifice of
virgins, of the bargaining of one's very soul. A
practitioner will often find he must engage in his
studies with the utmost secrecy, lest some mob of
ignorant commoners storm his dwelling and hang
him from the nearest tree. There is much
misunderstood of the people who choose to tread the
Dark Road.
Demonology, in and of itself, is not evil. A wizard
who chooses to supplement his arcane powers with
the demonic is not necessarily a twisted individual,
greedy and selfish, utterly consumed by his quest for
knowledge. In all likelihood he does not, in fact,
offer up dark prayers to the gods of evil whenever he
uses his magical powers. Like much in the world,
demonology is merely a tool, no more, no less. A
powerful and potentially dangerous tool, to be sure,
but there is no more inherent evil in the art than in
the forging of the finest sword. Such a weapon may
be used to defend a peasant family against the
hordes of darkness but it may also be turned against
the innocent at the desire of its wielder. So it is with
demonology.
When one serves good, to hold back from using any
tool available is dereliction to the point of the
affirmation of evil.
THE PRECIPICE
When all is said and done, those who practice
demonology will often find themselves exposed to
the most implacable evils on an almost constant
basis. From reading ancient texts written by the
diabolically mad to personally facing the darkest
lords of the infernal planes, any demonologist who
wishes to remain pure of heart must possess the
most unshakeable resolve. The immoral creatures
they seek to summon and control are cruel beyond
measure and delight in perverting all that is good
and innocent. Being academics by nature,
demonologists are, however, prone to focus upon
their studies to the exclusion of all else, unaware of I
the damage they may be doing to the world around
them and just how far down the Dark Road they mayj
have travelled. This is the cold, black precipice all
practitioners of the art must stare in the face each
and every day of their lives.
It is often said the practice of demonology will
eventually corrupt anyone, no matter how strong
they were before they started on the Dark Road. A
demonologist studying the art will quickly find he
can progress to great knowledge and in doing so,
begin to control far more powerful energies than if
he restricted himself to the arcane lores alone. It is I
here the trap is laid. Virtually any wizard has the
strength and ability to summon the lesser creatures
of the infernal planes. All it takes is access to the
required knowledge. Such a wizard may call forth a
nightmare to carry him a great distance with all
speed in order to deliver a vital message. He may
summon a small pack of hell hounds so as to aid in ;
the defence of a lonely village from a marauding
tribe of hobgoblins. There is no harm and little
danger in this, so long as all the required
prerequisites of the summoning are followed and
obeyed. But as the wizard progresses along the
Dark Road, he gains far deeper and blacker
knowledge, becoming a demonologist proper. He
will learn the rituals and rites required to call forth
the greater powers of the infernal planes. He will
become far more capable and when he pulls a being
from the infernal planes, the demonologist will find
he can reach the most powerful and malevolent of
creatures. Being so close to such power is a draw to
many and they may find themselves performing acts
during summonations that once they may have
found repugnant. It is a relatively simple step to
using the bones of those long gone in order to
summon certain species of demon. From there,
where is the harm in using live animals as offerings
to demonic entities, if it is for the greater good?
Where will a demonologist draw the line? It is
extraordinarily difficult for even an experienced
demonologist to summon the most powerful beings
of the infernal planes without offering a soul for
their services. As the demonologist walks the Dark
Road, it can be exceedingly hard to avoid practices
any civilised being would deem evil to the core.
THE SAFE ROAD
The majority of arcane wizards look upon the
practice of demonology with utter contempt. The
4

DEMONOLOGY - AN OVERVIEW
practitioners of the black art expose themselves to
immense dangers on a regular basis for questionable
gains. There is a strong belief amongst most
wizards that demonology is only for the most
foolish who lack the will and discipline to engage in
long years of study in the purer forms of magic.
Even the most dedicated of demonologists know
there are far safer methods in consorting with the
beings of the infernal planes and bargaining for their
services. The combined effects of Planar Binding
and Magic Circle spells are the most well known
and, indeed, offer far greater flexibility in the
creatures called to the material world than does the
demonological art. Relatively simple Summon
Monster spells have the ability to call forth the
lesser demonic creatures and completely subject
them to the wizard's demands through the act of
conjuration.
Demonology has its own purpose, though. It
balances risk with the possibility of gaining power
much quicker than through either of the methods
presented above. To summon and control even a
dretch or imp using Planar Binding spells requires a
very powerful wizard and few attain such levels of
magical ability. Summon Monster spells offer a
slightly quicker path but are severely limited when
compared to demonology in terms of what the
creature can be called upon to do, how long it
remains in the material world and, indeed, the range
of creatures that can be summoned.
The Dark Road offers the demonologist several
advantages over arcane wizardry, just as the
major schools of magic offer benefits to those
who specialise in their teachings. Whilst
demonology limits itself purely to the
summonation and control of beings of the infernal
planes, it will potentially allow a practitioner to call
upon the power of any of the millions that inhabit
those foul places. A summoned demon will likely
be under the practitioner's control for far longer than
with the simple Summon Monster spells and can be
compelled to perform a far greater range of actions.
Many practitioners, however, are drawn to the
practice of demonology for the most basic
reason of all - the Dark Road offers the
promise of far greater power over a far shorter
period of time than arcane magic can ever
grant. The counterbalance to this, and the
reason most wizards distance themselves far
from the practice, are the greatly magnified
risks. No Magic Circle can be used in a summoning
ritual to protect the demonologist as he calls upon
the great powers of the infernal planes. All he has
to protect him from the ravages of these evil
creatures is his own force of will and his
meticulously researched knowledge. Many fall by
the wayside as they walk the Dark Road but those
whose footing remains true can gain access to
demonic energies that far outstrip those of any
mortal.
The Summoning of Demons is more than mere
knowledge. It is a slippery path to hell which is all
too often paved by a wizard's own good intentions.
Old adage from the School of Magic
OF DEMONS, DEVILS
AND FIENDS
Demonology is, in its purest form, the practice of
summoning, controlling and perhaps binding the
5

DEMONOLOGY - AN OVERVIEW
immortal creatures of the infernal planes. Many
such planes of existence are present for
demonologists to tap and the inhabitants of these
hellish worlds vary accordingly. Each species has
its own domain, province and standing within these
planes and most are grouped into 'families,' all
bound together in rigid and complex hierarchies of
dominance. Some of these families are relatively
well known to the mortal worlds, as the most
powerful rule the infernal planes with an iron grip
and their minions are often called upon to break into
the material planes. Many adventurers have faced
creatures of the Tanar'ri or the Baatezu, as these are
the most numerous and powerful of their respective
planes.
It is important to note the rituals and magicks
detailed and explained within this book only apply
to the creatures of the infernal planes and, due to the
wildly coursing tides of magic, will simply not work
when attempting to draw upon forces from other
planes of existence. Celestial and elemental powers
may also be used by mortals dwelling within the
material world but such practices are quite different
and do not concern the demonologist. It should also
be mentioned that a great deal of the ancient texts
practitioners use to unlock the deeper secrets of
their art speak of various classifications of creatures
of the infernal planes, above and beyond that of the
families. Demons and devils are very separate
creatures, existing in different planes within the
infernal realms. The correct collective term for all
these creatures is fiends. However in common
usage, most simply call them all demons and as the
practitioner can use his abilities to summon any, that
is the definition we shall use throughout this book.
Any mention of demons applies equally to devils
and other fiends.
PERILS AND DANGERS
In this chapter, we have covered the basic practices
of demonology in the briefest of detail. Far greater
knowledge lies further into these pages. We have
made mention of the corrupting influence the art
may have on the weaker-willed, but this is by no
means the only peril a demonologist must face.
Demonology is an art comprised, in the main, of
research. The pursuit of knowledge is what drives
many demonologists and with good reason. Even
when summoning the most minor of demons, the
practitioner is attempting to control energies far
beyond the understanding of mortals. It is vital that
the preparation of the summonation, every syllable
uttered in the ritual and every component expended
is correct and flawless. One tiny, simple mistake
can easily allow a demon to break free of the bonds
the practitioner is attempting to harness it with. If
permitted free reign within the material world, a
demon becomes vengeful and will immediately seek
to destroy the mortal that dared call it forth. Few
mortals are equipped to face the unleashed wrath of
a demon summoned from the pits of the infernal
planes and it is not only a practitioner's life that will
be in the utmost peril. It will be his very soul.
'So, explain to me exactly why it is you initiate students in the so-called 'dark arts' but don't use them
yourself?' Santado fingered the tomes before him, searching for something he did not already possess. This
was the first time he had seen the old man in nearly a year. He had been too busy poring over the texts that
Falun had sold him at their initial meeting and searching for more.
The old sage shrugged his stooped shoulders, 'I never thought the risk was worth the gain.'
The young man blinked. 'How can you say that?'
Falun sighed, 'No matter which particular path on the Dark Road one chooses to follow, there is the very real
possibility that something will go horribly wrong or one will find one's self committing acts that would make
an eternity of the blackest torture imaginable to man seem like a spring festival.' The old sage shook his head,
'I value my life and my soul too much to stain either with the actions required of a practising demonologist.'
'But you would show others down the path you fear to tread?'
Falun smiled enigmatically, 'That is their choice, not mine.'
6

TO TREAD THE DARK ROAD
To TREAD THE
DARK ROAD
To say it requires a rather special and unique
individual to study demonology is something
of an understatement. Practitioners are
marked by an unquenchable thirst for knowledge,
often in many areas of expertise. Most tend to be
highly skilled in the practice and application of
arcane magic. All have an incredibly strong will,
able to withstand the rigours and temptations their
chosen art forces upon their minds.
A SIMPLE CHOICE
What is often more interesting to study, however,
are the reasons why an individual chooses to
practice the summoning of dark and evil powers.
Despite all the tales told by adventurers in taverns
and parents to their children at night, not all
demonologists are evil and twisted beings who
engage in foul practices within lonely towers in the
wilderness, surrounded by hordes of fanatical ores
and goblins.
That demonology has the power to corrupt the weak
and unwary is beyond dispute. It must be said,
though, that the vast majority of those who start
upon the Dark Road are neutral in character and
care little for the eternal struggle between good and
evil. They simply reach a point within their studies
of the arcane whereupon they stumble across the
practice of demonology and realise they may have
the potential to gain access to far greater magical
powers than before. From this initial starting point,
their interest tends to remain purely academic
though it is often these wizards who fall to the more
evil methodology when they actually come to
practice summoning rituals. Their passion for the
pursuit of knowledge often overrules mere
moralistic issues.
evil in the first place. The ends may not always
justify the means.
Finally we come to those that most civilised peoples
would call the archetypal demonologist. Cruel,
twisted and utterly evil to the core, either from birth
or from having been exposed too much to the
creatures of the infernal planes, these practitioners
follow the Dark Road as a means of ultimate power.
Hungry and rapacious individuals, these
demonologists are heedless of the pain and suffering
they cause, interested only in crushing any who
stand before them and their goals. Such goals may
be the domination of a kingdom, the subservience of
an entire race or a quest for immortality. Who can
truly say what motivates such men?
THE PRACTITIONERS
The art of demonology actually comprises several
disciplines, each specialised and focussed. The
most common is the demonologist, a wizard of
Arcane Lore who chooses to supplement his power
through the actual summonation of creatures from
the infernal planes. Through his magic, the
demonologist may summon forth bodyguards and
assassins, may draw upon raw magical energies and
may learn the most secret knowledge, garnered from
immortal minds. Some may even trivialise the art
by using their power to alleviate nights of boredom
through the summoning of a succubus.
Wizards skilled in the crafting of the finest magical
artefacts may stumble upon demonology as a means
to greatly increase the power of the items they
fashion, becoming binders. This is a very difficult
and costly practice, potentially far more dangerous
than regular demonology as demons will fight with
all their strength to avoid being imprisoned within
any material object. Such practitioners often
operate within normal society, though they tend to
keep very quiet when discussing the sources of
power they harness to create their wondrous
artefacts.
There are those strong of heart and pure of mind
that may adopt the practice in order to pursue a
greater good. This may happen in times of terrible
desperation where a wizard may choose to fight evil
with evil. They will likely be all too aware of the
powers they are set to unleash but may have little
choice. It is the tragedy of demonology that many
such men are themselves corrupted by the powers
they sought to harness in order to destroy a great
The darkest path of all is that of the possessed, who
makes direct pacts with a multitude of demons,
offering his very soul to each in order to gain
immediate boons on the material world. The
possessed subject their bodies and minds to terrible
rigours imposed by the demons they have pacts
with, drawing on a portion of the creature's power to
supplement their own. This discipline has
potentially the greatest rewards of all but also the
7

TO TREAD THE DARK ROAD
greatest risks as few mortal bodies are capable of
surviving the immense stresses imposed by the
continued possession by demons. Most possessors
inevitably become crippled or mad by their art.
THE DEMONOLOGIST
The demonologist is the quintessential practitioner
of the dark art, toiling for long hours under his
academic labours to harness the powers of the
infernal planes. The vast majority of demonologists
start off as wizards and most still practice their
regular arcane magicks but the mainstay of their
studies is firmly rooted within the realms of demons.
Most demonologists are solitary individuals, for
there are few willing to grant them the freedom to
practice the summoning rituals necessary to call
forth the greatest of powers without comment. The
very nature of the demonological art requires
knowledge and components that any of the civilised
races would find distasteful to the extreme. In
addition, the penalties for any error the
demonologist himself makes during the summoning
of greater powers can cause a great deal of harm to
any around him as demons, freed from their
shackles and at liberty to terrorise the material
world for a short period of time, slaughter all around
them.
There are, however, certain parties willing to risk
the presence of a demonologist in order to further
their own plans, whatever they may be. Powerful
guilds and organisations or adventuring parties with
few scruples may be welcoming of a demonologist
into their ranks, who is likely to appear to be
nothing more than a regular wizard until he actually
starts to practice the black art.
Either way, demonologists are often regarded as
strange people who rarely see the world as others
do. After having faced the fiends of the infernal
planes in direct and costly battles of sheer
unadulterated willpower, few can remain completely
unscathed. It is a tragic tale that many
demonologists go into the practice with the purest of I
hearts, only to have their morals and standards
constantly chipped and battered away until they
become, quite literally, completely different people.
Hit Die: d4.
Requirements
To qualify to become a demonologist, a character
must fulfil all the following criteria.
Feats: Spell Mastery
Languages: Draconic
Class Skills
The demonologist's class skills (and the key ability
for each skill) are Alchemy (Int), Concentration
(Con), Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int, exclusive
skill), Knowledge (all skills, taken individually)
(Int), Profession (Wis) and Spellcraft (Int). See
Chapter 4: Skills in the Player's Handbook for skill
descriptions.
Skill points at each level: 4 + Int modifier.
Class Features
All of the following are class features of the
demonologist prestige class.
Weapon and Armour Proficiency: Demonologists
gain no proficiency in any weapon or armour. Note
that armour check penalties for armour heavier than
leather apply to the skills Balance, Climb, Escape
Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Pick Pocket and
Tumble.
Demonology: Demonologists are versed in the
summoning and controlling of demons and so may
8

TO TREAD THE DARK ROAD
THE DEMONOLOGIST
Class
Level
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Base
Attack Bonus
+0
+1
+1
+2
+2
+3
+3
+4
+4
+5
Fort
Save
+0
+0
i 1
+1
+1
+2
12
+2
+3
+3
Ref
Save
+0
+0
+1
+1
+1
+2
+2
+2
+3
+3
Will
Save
+2
+3
+3
+4
+4
+5
+5
+6
+6
+7
Special
Siphon Demonic Energy
Extended Instruction
Lesser Control
Multiple Summoning
Demonic Vulnerability
Full Instruction
Greater Control
use the Art of Summoning rules on pages 13, 21 and
29.
Spells per Day: A demonologist continues training
in arcane magic as well as his own field of research.
Thus, when a new demonologist level is gained, the
character also gains spells as if he had also gained a
level in an arcane spellcasting class he belonged to
before he added the prestige class. He does not,
however, get any additional benefits a character of
that class would have gained, only the new spells.
This essentially means that he adds the level of
demonologist to the level of another arcane
spellcasting class the character already has and then
determines spells per day and caster level
accordingly. If the caster had more than one arcane
spellcasting class before he became a demonologist,
he must decide to which class he adds each level of
demonologist for the purposes of determining spells
per day when he adds the new level. Demonologist
levels are never added to a class that uses divine
magic.
Siphon Demonic Energy: At 2nd level, the
demonologist gains the ability to siphon demonic
energies to fuel his own spellcasting as described on
p21.
Extended Instruction: At 3rd level, a demonologist
grows strong enough to compel the demons he
summons to follow longer and more complicated
instructions. The limit for each instruction issued
grows to twelve words.
Lesser Control: At 4th level, the demonologist has
the strength of will to compel demons to serve him
for longer periods of time. The maximum time a
demon can stay in the material world is increased to
two hours. Each successive Control check to retain
the services of the demon for longer will now allow
it to stay a further two hours in the material world
instead of just one.
Multiple Summoning: At 5th level, the
demonologist has grown so adept in his art that he
may now summon more than one demon at a time.
The rules for doing so are covered on p21.
Demonic Vulnerability: As the demonologist's
knowledge increases, so too does his ability to
maximise the effect his spells have on the creatures
of the infernal planes he may meet in battle. At 6th
level, the demonologist may add +1 to his casting
level whenever targeting a creature from the infernal
planes with arcane magic spells.
Full Instruction: By the time he reaches 8th level,
the demonologist has become truly skilled at
controlling demons and forcing them to do his
bidding. Even the most complicated instructions
can now be given and will be obeyed. The limit for
each instruction issued grows to twenty words.
Greater Control: The demonologist's mastery of
his art is almost complete as he reaches 10th level.
He is now able to extend his control over demons in
the material world for much greater lengths of time.
The maximum time a demon can stay in the
material world is increased to three hours. Each
successive Control check to retain the services of
the demon for longer will now allow it to stay a
further three hours in the material world instead of
just one.
9

TO TREAD THE DARK ROAD
Class
Level
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Base
Attack Bonus
+0
+1
+1
+2
+2
+3
+3
+4
+4
+5
THE
Fort
Save
+0
+0
1 1
+1
+1
+2
+2
+2
+3
+3
BINDER
Ref
Save
+0
+0
+1
+1
+1
+2
+2
+2
+3
+3
Will
Save
+2
+3
+3
+4
4
+5
+5
+6
+6
+7
Demonic Ability
Slots
1
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
5
6
THE BINDER
Binders are very specialised practitioners of
demonology, using their knowledge and skill to first
summon demons, then bind them within magical
artefacts in order to harness their energies. Such
items are amongst the most powerful to be found
within the material worlds, with demonic weapons
especially being sought by warriors with few
scruples.
To be bound within an object for aeons is vile
imprisonment to any demon, a creature who values
its freedom far more than any mortal may
understand. In performing the binding ritual, the
practitioner is able to greatly boost the power of any
magical item he fashions but in doing so earns the
eternal enmity of the demon he enslaves. Should it
ever manage to break free, the binder will face the
wrath of the demon who will seek to devour him
both body and soul.
Few binders realise the magnitude of power they
dabble in when they first start on the Dark Road.
Most merely seek to increase the potency of their
creations and simply view demonology as one tool
to accomplish this. The corruption of the art is ever
present though and many pursue the knowledge
required to summon the greatest demons of all in
order to create ever more powerful artefacts.
Hit Die: d4.
Requirements
To qualify to become a binder, a character must
fulfil all the following criteria.
Skills: Demon Lore rank 8+
Feats: Craft Magic Arms and Armour, Craft
Wondrous Item
Class Skills
The binder's class skills (and the key ability for each
skill) are Alchemy (Int), Concentration (Con), Craft
(Int), Decipher Script (Int, exclusive skill),
Knowledge (all skills, taken individually) (Int),
Profession (Wis) and Spellcraft (Int). See Chapter 4:
Skills in the Player's Handbook for skill
descriptions.
Skill points at each level: 4 + Int modifier.
Class Features
All of the following are class features of the binder
prestige class.
Weapon and Armour Proficiency: Binders gain
no proficiency in any weapon or armour. Note that
armour check penalties for armour heavier than
leather apply to the skills Balance, Climb, Escape
Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Pick Pocket and
Tumble.
Demonology: Binders are versed in the summoning
and controlling of demons and so may use the Art of
Summoning rules on pages 13, 21 and 29.
Binding: The binder is skilled in the practice of
binding demons into inanimate objects and so may
use the rules presented in Bound Demons on p35.
Spells per Day: A binder continues training in
arcane magic as well as his own field of research.
Thus, when a new binder level is gained, the
character also gains spells as if he had also gained a
level in an arcane spellcasting class he belonged to
before he added the prestige class. He does not,
however, get any additional benefits a character of
that class would have gained, only the new spells.
to

TO TREAD THE DARK ROAD
This essentially means that he adds the level of
binder to the level of another arcane spellcasting
class the character already has and then determines
spells per day and caster level accordingly. If the
caster had more than one arcane spellcasting class
before he became a binder, he must decide to which
class he adds each level of demonologist for the
purposes of determining spells per day when he adds
the new level. Binder levels are never added to a
class that uses divine magic.
THE POSSESSED
The most punishing route of all for those who tread
the Dark Road is that of the possessed. Not content
with merely summoning and controlling demons in
order to gain their service, the possessed make
intimate and dangerous pacts with infernal creatures
as a means of gaining their power directly. Offering
a portion of their soul with each pact made, the
possessed are able to draw the demons' strength into
their own bodies, channelling it to overcome almost
any trial they may face.
Whilst the pact made with a demon provides some
measure of protection over the self-possession
practised by a few unstable demonologists, it is
ultimately ruinous to both body and soul, with only
the possessed's sheer will and his demonic energy
keeping his body functioning as he falls deeper into
the self-made trap. After several pacts have been
made, the possessed's body may be all but shattered
by the strains forced upon it by the demonic beings
that constantly writhe inside. Crippled and sickly,
the possessed becomes a pathetic figure, living only
for the times when the demon floods his system,
empowering him far beyond that which any mortal
may experience.
Whilst the demon is within his body, the possessed
retains his free will but his body often takes the
outward visage of the creature, returning to
something approaching normality after the
possession ends. This constant warping takes a
heavy toll on the possessed, with many forced to
pass themselves off as weak planetouched as the
physical effects gradually become permanent.
Hit Die: d4.
Requirements
To qualify to become one of the possessed, a
character must fulfil all the following criteria.
Alignment: Any non-good
Skills: Demon Lore rank 11 +
Feats: Strength of Will
Class Skills
The possessed's class skills (and the key ability for
each skill) are Alchemy (Int), Concentration (Con),
Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int, exclusive skill),
Knowledge (all skills, taken individually) (Int),
Profession (Wis) and Spellcraft (Int). See Chapter 4:
Skills in the Player's Handbook for skill
descriptions.
Skill points at each level: 4 + Int modifier.
Once you have had the demon inside you, mind,
body and soul, you are never quite. . . whole again.
Class Features
All of the following are class features of the
possessed prestige class.
Weapon and Armour Proficiency: The possessed
gain no proficiency in any weapon or armour. Note
THE POSSESSED
Class
Level
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Base
Attack Bonus
+0
+1
+ 1
+2
+2
+3
+3
+4
+4
+5
Fort
Save
+0
+0
+1
+1
+1
+2
+2
+2
+3
+3
Ref
Save
+0
+0
+1
+1
+1
+2
+2
+2
+3
+3
Will
Save
+2
+3
+3
+4
+4
+5
+5
+6
+6
+7
Demonic
Possession
2/day
4/day
6/day
8/day
10/day
1 2/day
1 4/day
1 6/day
1 8/day
20/day
Special
Demonic Traits (2)
Demonic Traits (3)
Demonic Traits (4)
11

TO TREAD THE DARK ROAD
that armour check penalties for armour heavier than
leather apply to the skills Balance, Climb, Escape
Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, Pick Pocket and
Tumble.
Demonology: The possessed are versed in the
summoning and controlling of demons and so may
use the Art of Summoning rules on pages 13,21 and
29.
Spells per Day: Unlike the demonologist
or binder, the possessed does not
automatically continue his training in
arcane magic. Class levels gained as
the possessed do not count for spells
gained as any other arcane
spellcasting class.
Demonic Pacts: The possessed
may automatically make a pact
with any demon he successfully
summons and controls (see The
Art of Summoning chapters for
details). Once a pact has been
made with any one demon, it may
no longer be summoned and controlled
normally and the possessed becomes
reliant on it actually entering his body
to gain any further benefit. As soon
as the pact is made, he automatically
loses 1 d6 (2d6 for a named demon)
points from his ability scores and/or
hit points, as the player chooses,
spreading the loss between ability
scores if he so wishes. Intelligence,
Wisdom and Charisma, however,
may never be altered in this way. If
this ever forces an ability score to
below 3 or hit points to 0, the
possessed is killed outright, consumed by the very
powers he sought to harness. This loss is permanent
and cannot be reversed through the use of spells
such as Restoration. This is the price the possessed
pays for his powers.
The possessed may call upon any demon he has
made a pact with to utilise its power as a full round
action. He immediately gains any one single trait of
the demon - this may be an ability score (such as
Strength), its attacks, a special quality, skill, feat or
spell-like ability. This effect lasts for one hour.
Only one demon may be called upon at any one
time and this may be done an amount of times per
day as shown on the table below. The possessed is
permitted to end a period of possession at any time
as a full round action and does not suffer the side
effects described on p25, the pact he has made with
the demon forestalling such things.
During this time, the possessed will
assume many of the outward
features of the demon he has within
him, gaining stature, fangs, horns,
wings and skin colour as
appropriate. When he ends the
possession, his physique will
return to normal,
though his
appearance will
gradually begin to
change over time,
steadily becoming
more and more
demonic, as if he
was planetouched.
Soul Servitude: In making
pacts with demons, the
possessed is offering his
very soul to the most
evil of creatures in
exchange for power within
the material world.
Demons of all types will
watch for the
possessed's death, ever
eager to collect the
soul he bargained
with. A possessed may never be resurrected by any
method.
Demonic Traits: At 3rd, 6th and 9th level, the
possessed gains the ability to channel yet more of a
demon's power through his fragile body. Additional
traits may be used every time a demon is called
upon, as shown by the number in parentheses after
the Demonic Traits special ability on the table
below. For example, a 6th level possessed could take
three traits from a demon each time he calls upon its
power - when calling upon a succubus he has
previously made a pact with, he could therefore gain
her Dexterity and energy drain ability.
12

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
THE ART OF
SUMMONING —
FIRST STEPS
Awizard who consciously chooses to set
aside much of his normal research and
concentrate on the lore of demonology is
one who gambles his innermost soul in the quest for
knowledge. We have looked at the risks involved in
the practice, as well as those who undertake this
dangerous pursuit. Now we will begin the first steps
on the Dark Road.
This chapter will examine, in detail, the underlying
fundamentals involved in the summoning and
controlling of demons from the infernal planes. A
wizard following these steps and performing his first
initial research into the lore will have everything he
needs to attempt his first summonation. To begin
with, the fledgling demonologist is well advised to
concentrate his energies on calling forth the weaker
demonic entities - hell hounds, dretch and imps.
Such creatures are relatively easy to control when
summoned and the consequences of failure are
greatly reduced. It is imperative to keep in mind
that so long as the required rituals are known, there
are no limits to what a demonologist may attempt to
summon. In the unlikely event a fledgling
demonologist learns the complicated rituals needed
to summon a balor or pit fiend, there is absolutely
nothing to stop him calling these insanely powerful
creatures into the material world. His chances of
controlling such entities are, however, non-existent.
At best, he will be slain within seconds of
completing the ritual. At worst, the enraged demon
will carry him off to the infernal planes to suffer an
eternity of torment amongst the most evil and
twisted races known. In short, every demonologist
is limited in what he may achieve by just two factors
- the forbidden knowledge he is able to uncover and
his own good sense. The successful practitioner will
always recognise his own limits and never push
himself too far too fast. Always remember that
there is no such thing as a bad demonologist - such
people quickly succumb to the excesses of the art
they vainly attempt to control.
Can you use demons for good works? Of course you
can. Therein lies the danger. You can use a rack for
good work as well - but how long is it before you
begin to enjoy the screams?
The Morals and Ethics of the Arcane - Ypesliva
RESEARCH AND STUDY
The cornerstone of demonology is pure research.
Practitioners spend much of their lives locating and
interpreting forbidden lore, material often
descending through the ages and harking from the
most ancient of times. It is a basic requirement of
every demonologist that he becomes linguistically
skilled in the use of languages that no mortal
creature may have spoken or written in, perhaps,
thousands of years. Such are the texts that speak of
the creatures of the infernal planes - their names,
capabilities and what forces are necessary to bring
them into the material world where they may be
bound or controlled by practitioners of sufficient
will.
This knowledge is extremely rare and thus can pose
the would-be demonologist with the immense
difficulty of locating the information he needs to
attempt even the most basic of summoning rituals.
Some of the largest libraries of the world may hold a
few sought-after scrolls and tomes within their
darker recesses, though it is a common practice for
periodic purges to destroy these valuable resources
at the behest of well-meaning librarians. In the
same vein, the personal libraries of arcane wizards
may also contain a few books of interest to the
demonologist, gathering dust on a forgotten shelf in
some mystic study, treated as nothing more than a
curiosity. Again, though, this is rare. It may also be
worth watching any merchant or trader who
regularly deals in ancient books. Tomes of forbidden
lore occasionally pass through their hands, though it
is highly unlikely they will recognise the worth of
such an item.
It is doubtful that a practitioner relying purely on
these sources will progress very far along the Dark
Road over any period of time. In this practice,
knowledge is most certainly power and those
wishing to increase their abilities will have to work
hard to uncover the forbidden lore vital to their
studies.
13

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
The most obvious source of knowledge is another,
more experienced, demonologist but this raises its
own problems. Demonologists are, by their very
nature, reclusive and small in number, suspicious of
any who dare intrude upon their own studies. The
practice of taking apprentices or sharing information
is unheard of within demonology, such are the risks
each practitioner runs of discovery. In addition, the
process of physically taking another demonologist's
library by force is fraught with danger as not only
will they have the power to call upon demonic
creatures from the infernal planes, they are also
highly likely to be accomplished spell casters in
their own right. All this said though, a
demonologist's collections of books and notes will
be considered a real treasure trove by any other
practitioner.
In reality, a demonologist will likely be forced to
travel far and wide, throughout the dark and evil
places of the world, following every story and
rumour concerning the location of ancient texts.
Unless the practitioner is unusually lucky, it may
take a great deal of time to uncover the deepest
secrets of demonology.
Once works of forbidden lore have been located, a
demonologist's research may begin. First the texts
have to be translated into a form more readily
accessible to the practitioner as they will usually be
written in languages long since forgotten or even not
of this world. This can take a great deal of time in
itself, particularly for the inexperienced
demonologist who will be encountering such
languages for the very first time. This done, the
demonologist must then employ his intellect into
comprehending what he reads - deciphering is not
understanding. There are many subtle nuances and
twists within the art, all of which must be firmly
fixed in the mind of the practitioner if he is not to
court disaster. The knowledge he seeks may be
buried within several texts, hidden by riddle and
code, as is the nature of many forbidden and
heretical lores.
With hard work, dedication and a great deal of
lateral thought, however, the demonologist may
emerge from his studies with the knowledge he so
tirelessly sought to uncover. He will be ready to
begin the summoning ritual.
SUMMONING RITUALS
Though summoning rituals can vary wildly in their
specifics, the fundamental practices of all have
much in common and any demonologist will readily
identify any ritual he witnesses as such, even if he is
not familiar with the demonic entity being called.
All summoning rituals call for a pentagram to be
inscribed upon the ground, though the design is
different for each demon and an incorrectly drawn
form will have no power during a ritual. The ritual
itself will require perhaps many hours of chants and
calls, along with the consumption of various
components, expended in much the same way as
with the casting of arcane magic. Such rituals are
the most lengthy part of the summoning process,
particularly if the demonologist is unfamiliar with
the demon he is attempting to call.
If the summonation proves successful, the demonic
entity will appear, drawn from the infernal planes,
into the pentagram before the demonologist. Now
begins the shortest part of the ritual but also the
most hazardous. The practitioner must apply his
force of personality to break the spirit of the demon
and bend it to his own demands. The successful
application of this last process is the ultimate goal
of all demonologists. Failure does not often grant
one a second chance to correct mistakes.
It must be noted here that, contrary to popular
beliefs, the sacrifice of animals or sentient beings is
never required for the successful controlling of
demonic entities. On the other hand, such offerings
can greatly aid an evil demonologist with no
remaining scruples and even the most accomplished
of practitioners will be hard pressed to control the
greatest of the demonic powers without a valuable
soul to offer in exchange for services. . .
THE RISKS
We have spoken in previous chapters of the
immense risks demonologists face in the practice of
their art. But why is demonology a lore to be
greatly respected, not just by those whom it may be
employed against, but also by its actual
practitioners?
The first stage of demonology, the uncovering of
knowledge and the maintenance of secrecy whilst
engaging in the practice is little different from that
which other adventurers face on a day-to-day basis
and need not be covered here. The summoning
14

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
ritual itself holds little danger for the
demonologist, other than the fear of
discovery for it tends to be a fairly
lengthy process. Failure in
summoning a creature from the
infernal planes is likely to
result only in the loss of
potentially expensive
materials for no gain. The
danger lies in the
attempted control of a
demonic entity.
Such beings do not
enjoy being ripped
from their homes
within the infernal
planes and will be
greatly enraged by
the intrusion into
their often
incomprehensible
plans and designs.
Upon the completion of a successful summoning
ritual, the demonologist will be confronted by the
entity he sought to call, standing within the
pentagram he laboriously toiled over, its power now
spent in pulling the demon into the material world.
Such an entity will be murderous in nature, its
desire for cruelty and destruction magnified by the
temerity of a mortal seeking to dominate it by his
sheer will. The demonologist has but one chance to
bring the creature under control. A single slip, just
one break in concentration will leave the demon free
to roam the material world. Its first act will be to
exact vengeance upon the summoner, either rending
him limb from limb in an orgy of blood-letting, or
carrying him off to the infernal planes where he will
suffer for an eternity as the plaything of demons.
Even if the demonologist manages to somehow
survive and escape such a baleful existence, he is
unlikely to ever be. . . quite right again. Every
demonologist is all too aware of the risks they run
every time they practice the art. Most fervently pray
for a quick end should they ever make a costly and
fatal mistake at this most critical of times.
In some cases, the demon may seek
to stay in the material world to
wreck havoc for a little
longer than the
summoning ritual
ordinarily permits.
In such
circumstances,
the
demonologist
will be
viciously
assaulted
physically,
mentally and
spiritually as the
demon attempts to
possess him, gaining
absolute control of his
functions and twisting his
body beyond all recognition. Bones bend and snap,
skin warps and muscle expands as the mortal body
strains to contain the demonic energies it is
subjected to. The chances of surviving such a fate
unscathed are non-existent.
REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE
A demonologist of any level is free to attempt the
summoning and control of any creature from the
infernal planes, provided he has the appropriate
research materials and texts. Information on how to
supply player characters with these texts is given in
the Help for Games Masters chapter but, for now,
we will concentrate on the rules used to summon
demons and force them into service.
Throughout these rules, the Challenge Ratings of
individual demons are used to gauge their relative
strengths and the difficulty in summoning and
controlling them. This provides a quick and
accurate measure of a demon's power, taking into
account hit dice, spell abilities and special powers -
obviously, the stronger a demon is overall, the
harder it will be to summon and control.
15

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
Knowledge - Demon Lore (Int; Trained only)
This skill represents your ability to comprehend all aspects of demonic knowledge. It is most commonly used
to decipher and understand demonic based texts, but may also be utilised to recognise demons and predict their
natures and special abilities.
Check: Answering an easy question regarding demonology (could that beautiful woman with bat wings
possibly be a demon?) has a DC of 10. Basic questions (what is a balor armed with?) has a DC of 15 whilst
really tough questions (what is the true name of the pit fiend in front of me?) could have a DC of 20 or 30.
The difficulty of deciphering demonic texts is covered in the Required Knowledge section.
Retry: No. The check represents what you know. Simply thinking about a question again will not permit you
to know something you did not know in the first place.
Special: An untrained Knowledge check is simply an Intelligence check. Without actual training, a character
is likely to be relying only on myths and legends. Generally, only demonologists, binders and possessed have
access to this skill, though the Games Master may rule otherwise in his campaign.
Any scroll, tome or other resource a Games Master
deems to contain demonological knowledge must
first be read and comprehended by the player
character before it can be used in a summoning
ritual. A successful Demon Lore check, DC 15, is
needed to identify any such material and discover
which demon(s) it pertains to. To actually decipher
and comprehend these inevitably complex texts
takes Id3 days + the Challenge Rating of the demon
concerned and requires a Demon Lore check, DC
20. A Games Master is free to modify the DC of
this check by up to + or -10 to reflect varying
degrees of ease and complexity of ancient or
relatively new texts. No other tasks may be
performed during this period. Where such a
resource holds the knowledge of several demonic
entities, the time taken and a separate Demon Lore
check is required for each. Failure in the Demon
Lore check will result in the demonologist being
unable to understand the information contained
within the resource. He may not make another
attempt until his rank in Demon Lore is increased.
Once successful, the demonologist may make a note
of the demon he has studied - from this point, he
may attempt the summoning and control of the
creature at any time. The Games Master will inform
the player of the capabilities and special powers of
the demon, as well as any specific materials or rites
required in its summoning ritual, this being the
knowledge the demonologist has uncovered through
his study.
THE SUMMONING RITUAL
Summoning rituals vary between the differing
demons they are designed to call forth, with certain
pentagram designs, components and binding chants ;
having power over one being but not another. The
core rules used for summoning demons, however,
are very simple though there are many modifying
factors a player must be aware of so he may swing
the odds of success further into his favour. This
practice of minimising the chances of failure in
summoning and controlling demons is the heart of
demonology. A summary of the rules presented
below can be found on p64.
Summoning rituals take as many hours to perform as
the Challenge Rating of the subject demon. The
summoning of a Tanar'ri vrock, for example, takes
thirteen hours. During this time, the demonologist
prepares the pentagram, expends components and
masters the chants of summonation, all of which
were learnt through his study of the demon. Whilst
performing the summoning ritual, the demonologist
may take no other action and so cannot cast any
spells.
The Summoning Check
The basic Summoning check is DC 10 + the
Challenge Rating of the demon.
The summoning ritual requires the aquisition of
various components for both a pentagram and a
summoning focus. These vary for each type of
demon and are covered on p52.
16

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
Failure in the Summoning check results in nothing
more than the expenditure of any components used
and the absence of said demon. Of all the checks
used in demonology, this is the one that is safest and
least costly to fail in.
A successful Summoning check will draw the
demon from the infernal planes into the pentagram,
where it will appear before the demonologist. Now
comes the most difficult part of the ritual -
controlling the demon and making it subject to the
summoner's will.
The Control Check
The basic Control check is DC 10 + twice the
Challenge Rating of the demon.
If passed, the Control check will allow the
summoner to give the demon instructions to be
carried out, as detailed on pi8. A failed roll will
likely mean the demonologist is in very serious
trouble as the summoned demon frees itself of the
bonds that have been placed upon it. It will
immediately attack the demonologist as described
on p20.
For both Summoning and Control checks, a roll of a
1 is an automatic failure and a roll of 20 an
automatic success.
SHIFTING THE ODDS
With his very life and soul at stake, any
demonologist will work hard to increase the chances
of a successful summonation and control of the
demon he calls. At the same time, however, other
factors may intrude upon the summoning ritual to
make it far more difficult. There are many different
bonuses and penalties that may be applied to
Summoning and Control Checks listed throughout
this book but those most applicable to the fledgling
demonologist are detailed here. All are summarised
on p64.
Expertise
The experienced demonologist will naturally be far
more capable than one just starting his journey down
the Dark Road. Even when confronted by an
unfamiliar demon for the first time, he will have the
strength of will and purpose to cover minor mistakes
and errors, becoming consistently successful in the
art. A character's combined demonologist, binder
and possessed class levels are added as a bonus to
every Summoning and Control check.
Pentagrams and their uses
As with the study of demonology itself, there are many misconceptions based around pentagrams and their use
within magical labours. It is a common belief, for example, that a pentagram exists to protect the wizard from
malevolent spirits that he calls upon for boon and aid. There are some fields of magic, witchcraft being the
most prevalent, where this holds true but for demonology the pentagram serves a much different purpose.
To pull a being of any power from the distant infernal planes and make it manifest in the material world takes a
tremendous amount of magical energy, the type of which few mortals are able to withstand let alone
manipulate to their own ends. The pentagram used in demonology is, quite simply, a carefully constructed
magical focus designed to channel and magnify a practitioner's own forces in order to build enough power
during the summoning ritual to call a demon into the material world. By focussing this much energy over a
relatively short period of time, the power inherent within a correctly drawn pentagram is completely expended
when the summoning ritual is complete, leaving the practitioner with no protection against the creature he has
just summoned other than his own knowledge and force of personality.
The correct drawing of a pentagram during the summoning ritual is of utmost importance if the attempt is to be
successful and the margin for error is incredibly small. Even a single human hair lying across a critical
juncture of the pentagram can be enough to dissolve its power and decrease its potency, thus placing a far
greater burden on the summoner who may instead benefit from saving his strength for controlling the demon
rather than just summoning it. In this way, a badly drawn pentagram can have a marked effect upon the
controlling process even though its power has been expended during the summoning.
A demonologist cannot, of course, cast any spell or activate any magical item whilst performing either the
summoning or the controlling process. He must rely purely on his demonological capabilities during these
critical times.
17

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
Study and Preparation
Demonology is not an art that can be easily
mastered by those short of memory or failing in
their mental faculties. It requires precise observation
and recollection, for a mistake made in the
preparation of the pentagram or in the summoning
chants can cripple a ritual. A demonologist's
Intelligence Bonus is added as a modifier to every
Summoning check.
Force of Will
Whilst specific rituals and rites are absolutely
essential if any demonologist is to control a demon
he has summoned, it is often his sheer force of will
and personality that can make the difference
between success and failure when he comes to
actually controlling the creature. A battle of titanic
wills can erupt in a fraction of a second as the
demon strains to break free of the bonds being
imposed upon it, even as the demonologist exerts his
mind to bring the entity under control. A
demonologist's Charisma Bonus is added as a
modifier to every Control check.
High Quality Components
By acquiring the finest examples of the components
necessary in any given summoning ritual, a
demonologist can greatly minimise the risk of
failure in calling the demon into the material world.
If the components used are at least double the base
monetary value required, a modifier of+1 may be
applied to the Summoning check. If the value is at
least four times greater, a +2 bonus is granted. For
components of eight times or greater value, the
maximum bonus of +3 is awarded. For items
without a strict monetary value (an ancient war
banner, for instance), the Games Master will be
required to exercise his judgement in applying these
bonuses.
It should be noted that if undervalued or
misidentified components are used, there is no
penalty to the Summoning check - the ritual will
simply not work and every component will be
consumed and wasted.
Slow Ritual
Demonologists, by necessity, take great care in their
preparations for the summoning ritual. Given
enough time, greater safeguards can be employed,
with every stage of the ritual being checked and re-
checked for any possible mistakes. By doubling the
time required to perform a summoning ritual, a
demonologist will be granted a +2 bonus to both his
Summoning and Control checks.
Hurried Rituals
By the same token, there may be times when a
demonologist will be put under the severest pressure
to summon a demon as quickly as possible. Under
such circumstances, it is almost inevitable that
errors and mistakes will creep into the ritual,
making the whole process harder and a lot more
dangerous for the demonologist. Flurrying a ritual
will reduce the time required to perform it by half
but will impose a -4 penalty to both Summoning
and Control checks.
Previously Summoned Demon
In performing the same ritual again and again, a
demonologist will inevitably become more familiar
with its subtleties and nuances until they almost
become second nature. If a summoning ritual has
been successfully performed before by the
demonologist, a +1 bonus is granted to the
Summoning check.
Previously Controlled Demon
Once a demon has been summoned and the
practitioner has established his control over it, he
will find future attempts at imposing his force of
will to be much easier. Apply a +1 bonus to the
Control check if the demon has been successfully
controlled by the demonologist in the past.
Distraction
Fledgling demonologists, those just starting the
practice of the art, often make sure others are
present during the summoning ritual in order to
provide a physical defence against the demon if
control is not established. There is a -1 penalty to
both the Summoning and Control checks for every
creature, sentient or otherwise, present at the ritual
other than the demonologist himself. They need not
be present for the entire ritual for this penalty to be
applied - even poking their head around the door of
the demonologist's laboratory can shake the
concentration required for a summoning ritual.
THE DEMON
CONTROLLED
Upon the successful summoning and control of a
demon, the demonologist will have the ability to
command the creature to do his bidding. As with
18

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
Demonology in Practice
Fallora is a level one demonologist attempting to summon her very first demon. Having studied an ancient
scroll for the past five days and passing her Demon Lore check, she feels reasonably confident that she can
now summon a dretch, one of the lesser Tana'ri.
Being her first attempt in the art, Fallora makes sure she will be undisturbed during the summoning ritual and
takes her time, gaining the +2 Slow Ritual bonus to both her Summoning and Control checks. She also locates
fine quality copper powder, the component needed to draw the pentagram for dretches, adding a further +1
bonus to the Summoning check.
Taking four hours to perform the ritual, as she is making sure no mistakes enter her preparations, Fallora
attempts to call a dretch from the infernal planes into the pentagram. A dretch has CR 2, so the check becomes
DC 12. However, Fallora is a first level demonologist (+1), has an Intelligence of 15 (+2), is using high quality
components (+1) and is taking her time (+2), giving a total bonus of+6, meaning only a 6 needs to be rolled.
Unsurprisingly, she manages to call the dretch to the material world.
Now comes the tricky bit. Incensed at being pulled from the infernal planes, the dretch would clearly like to
exact revenge upon Fallora. Clearing her mind of the telepathic threats the dretch is hurling at her, Fallora
attempts to control the demon.
The Control check is DC 14 as the dretch's CR is doubled for this check. Fallora's Charisma of 11 adds no
bonus, but being a first level demonologist helps (+1), as does her Slow Ritual (+2), meaning she has to roll 11
or more. With a breath of relief, she succeeds and gives the dretch a very simple instruction - 'protect me from
all harm.' The dretch will now effectively act as her bodyguard for the next hour but Fallora, overjoyed at her
success, wants more. She exerts her will to force the dretch to follow this instruction for another hour. There
is a -2 penalty to this next Control check as it counts as being an additional instruction, so Fallora needs to roll
a 13.
She succeeds in this too and decides she can try for a third hour. The cumulative penalty for another additional
instruction rises to -4, thus requiring a roll of 15 this time around. Unfortunately Fallora fails and the dretch
breaks free of the magical bonds she placed around it. Fallora is about to learn even a dretch can be a very
dangerous enemy when free. . .
every other part of this practice, there are rules that
must be obeyed.
A controlled demon is compelled to carry out and
complete a single nine word instruction issued by
the summoner for a duration of no more than one
hour. Once the instruction has been carried out or
an hour has elapsed, whichever comes first, the
demon instantly winks out of existence in the
material world and is immediately returned to the
infernal planes.
This instruction must be given at the moment of
control, straight after the demon has been
summoned or it will merely return to the infernal
planes. Instructions cannot normally be issued after
this time, no matter how powerful the demonologist
is.
Anything may be demanded and the demon is
compelled to carry out such instructions to the best
of its ability. A demonologist may ask the demon,
for example, to act as a bodyguard, or to assassinate
an enemy. Many demons have existed since before
the dawn of time and are thus incredible sources of
long forgotten knowledge. Others, such as the
nightmare steeds, excel as fast mounts or even
beasts of burden. These are just a few of the most
basic examples of what a practitioner may compel a
demon to do. In practice, he is limited only by the
demon's powers and his own imagination. Due to
the convolutions of demonic politics upon the
infernal planes, however, a summoned demon can
never be compelled to summon additional demons
itself.
19

THE ART OF SUMMONING - FIRST STEPS
'Gods weep, boy. It's a wonder you can pronounce your own name.' Falun threw his hands in the air and
rolled his eyes. 'If you can do no better than that, you'll be short your soul and wondering what happened.
Tis a wonder you survived this long.'
Santado ground his teeth, 'I have studied these languages for years. It is not as if one can just strike up a
conversation on the street in the tongue of demons. I see nothing wrong with my pronunciation.'
Falun sighed deeply, 'That is exactly the problem. You're seeing your pronunciation instead of hearing it. You
can read the forms well enough, but it is imperative you say every last syllable perfectly. Any little slip and-'
'-and I'll have a demon for a soul mate. You've told me a thousand times in the last hour alone!' Santado
crossed his arms sulkily. He stood so for several moments before continuing, Til go through it again. Stop
me where I make any mistakes.'
We're going to be here forever then, Falun thought, though to Santado he simply nodded.
Multiple Instructions
Passing the Control check when the demon is
summoned allows the demonologist to issue a single
nine word instruction that will be obeyed for up to
one hour. However, the number of instructions and
the time the demon is compelled to stay in the
material world may both be extended by a
demonologist of sufficient power.
For each additional instruction issued or each
additional hour the demon is required to remain in
the material world, another Control check must be
made with a cumulative -2 penalty. If any of these
additional Control checks are failed, the demon will
become uncontrolled with the consequences
described below. No more instructions or additional
hours may be added to the demon's service as it is
now free to exact its vengeance.
Note that any of these additional instructions or
extended hours must be attempted straight after the
first Control check. They may not be added to the
demon's service at a later time, so a demonologist
must plan in advance to decide exactly what he will
ask the demon to do if the summoning proves
successful.
FAILURE
It happens to every demonologist sooner or later.
Despite painstaking attention to detail during the
summoning ritual, the demonologist will, at some
point, lose control of the demon he is calling forth.
Even those careful not to overreach themselves may
make a mistake - the fact that it is far easier to
summon than control makes this almost inevitable.
There are many terrible fates to which a practitioner
may be subjected to by an uncontrolled demon.
However, those taking the first steps on the Dark
Road will start by summoning the lesser demonic
entities, those of a Challenge Rating of 6 or below.
The reactions of these more minor creatures are
always predictable and deadly. Their first priority is
the destruction of the mortal who called them into
the material world. The failure of the Control check
negates the bonds placed on the demon by the ritual
and the summoner's will, allowing it to act with
complete freedom of purpose. It will move with all
speed to the summoner and attack with every
resource and ability it has. Once the summoner is
slain, it will either seek out and destroy all
intelligent life for a period of one hour or simply
return to the infernal planes, this being determined
by the Games Master. It will also immediately
return to its home plane if it is in danger of being
slain.
IN SUMMARY
This concludes the basic rules for summoning and
controlling demons. The fledgling demonologist
will be able to summon all manner of creatures from
the infernal planes, provided he does his research.
The likes of dretch, quasits, imps and hell hounds
will all be within his power to command.
There is, of course, far more to the practice of
demonology than this. Far more powerful demons
can be called upon as the demonologist becomes
increasingly more capable and he will be able to
command them to do far more things once
summoned. He may even be able to draw upon raw
demonic power to fuel his own arcane castings to
greater levels than he ever dreamed. For this,
however, the demonologist must tread further down
the Dark Road.
20

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
THE ART OF
SUMMONING —
THE
NEOPHYTE
Up to now, we have looked at how those
skilled in the arcane arts can pursue the lore
of demonology and summon the more minor
creatures of the infernal planes. The Dark Road is a
long and twisting path, however, and far greater
knowledge awaits those who are prepared to take
weightier risks. Within the following pages you will
find information on how to call upon the named
demons, the most powerful of creatures existing
upon the infernal planes. The accomplished
demonologist will now be able to use a demon's raw
energy to fuel his own magical capabilities or to
possess other sentient beings. The secrets of group
summonings and blood sacrifices are also covered to
grant a demonologist a further edge in the art. The
dangers in dealing with the more advanced forms of
demonology are also greater, however, and we
therefore take a look at these too.
It must be noted that demonologists, unlike most
other character classes, do not have a strict level-by-
level progression of power. You need not wait until
a certain level to utilise the rules within this section.
Every demonologist must judge his own readiness to
walk further down the Dark Road. Glory or
damnation await the intrepid searchers of forbidden
knowledge.
SIPHON DEMONIC
ENERGY
Many demonologists regularly summon demons for
the sole purpose of drawing upon their energies to
fuel their own magical powers. Such demonically
charged energy can be intoxicating to the senses as
it flows through their blood, stimulating their
awareness and granting the ability to control far
greater amounts of arcane power than ordinarily
possible.
Siphoning Demonic Energy
At 2nd level, a demonologist gains the ability to
Siphon Demonic Energies, adding them to his own
magical strength. To siphon energy, a demonologist
must make a successful Control check for a demon
he has just summoned. Instead of giving it
instructions as normal, he may instead draw upon its
raw energy. This may only be done whilst the
demonologist is preparing his spells. The time taken
for the summoning is added to the hour normally
required to prepare spells.
The demonologist will gain extra spell slots for one
day, based on the Challenge Rating of the demon.
Each point of the Challenge Rating will allow an
extra spell level. These spell levels may be split or
combined for additional spells as the demonologist
sees fit, but he may not use them to take spells he
could not ordinarily cast.
For example, an osyluth (CR 6) could be used to
obtain an extra 6* level spell, a 2nd and 4th level
spell, 6 1st level spells or any combination in
between. However, the 6th level spell could only be
gained if the demonologist could normally cast 6th
level spells.
The demon returns to the infernal planes as soon as
the energy has been taken from it.
MULTIPLE SUMMONINGS
Though it is essential a demonologist does not push
himself too far too fast in the black art, there are
many who succumb to temptation. As the
practitioner walks the Dark Road, he becomes
greatly skilled in demonic lore and may soon have
the ability to summon more than one infernal
creature in a single ritual. This has the advantage of
him being able to control two or more demons at the
same time but is, naturally, far more difficult to
accomplish. The demonologist runs the very real
risk of having to face the wrath of several demons if
he fails to control them.
Attempting a Multiple Summonation
Demonologists gain the ability to summon more
than one demon at a time when they reach 5th level.
There is no limit to the total number of demons they
may summon at any one time and they need not be
of the same type.
The Challenge Ratings of all demons to be
summoned are totalled for both the Summoning and
21

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
Control checks. Any instructions given will be
applied equally to all the demons - separate
instructions cannot be given for each.
There is an additional -1 penalty to the Control
check for every demon, including the first,
summoned when using this ability.
This special ability potentially provides a very easy
route for a demonologist to overreach himself in the
art and that is all we will say on the matter!
NAMED DEMONS
Above the numberless hordes of quasits, imps, hell
hounds and their ilk, lies the intensely hierarchical
structure of the named demons. Ranging from the
relatively weak barbazu to the insanely powerful
balor, these are the greatest of all creatures within
the infernal planes, harnessing tremendous demonic
energies in their sometimes massive frames. Upon
the infernal planes, they are lords and masters of the
lesser demons, often having vast numbers in their
service to do battle and bring about the defeat of
their enemies, other demons with whom they
constantly war and politick against.
Every one of these demons has many names and
each must be treated as an individual by the
prospective demonologist. The rituals learnt thus far
may summon any creature from an entire demonic
species but the named demons have the strength of
power to resist the lure and pull of the more
mundane summoning rituals. Instead such rituals,
by necessity, must be crafted and revised for each
individual demonic entity. A demonologist may
learn the appropriate ritual to summon one
succubus, but it will simply not work for another.
At the heart of the practice of summoning demons
of this magnitude are their names.
Any text depicting the summoning of such a demon ;
will always include at least one of their common
names, the basic identifier used during the ritual to
make contact with the creature and bring it forth
into the material world. A demon may have many
common names and these are the ones mortals are
likely to use when speaking of legends and myths
concerning the demon's excursions into the realms
of men. Common names are nothing more than
identifiers or labels and as such grant no power over I
the demon though they are a necessary part of the
summoning ritual.
All demons of this stature will also have a small
number, no more than half a dozen, of greater
names. These names have actual power over the
demon and are thus carefully guarded by their
owner. They are typically the names used by
demons to bind each other into service - a demon
who knows the greater name of another has the
ability to summon it to grant aid, a useful survival
trait within the infernal planes. Demons use this
calling only in very rare circumstances for to do so
leaves them in debt and they can always expect to
make repayment sometime in the future. A
demonologist, however, can use a greater name of a
demon he summons as raw leverage when
attempting to control it. Any demon detests the
mere concept of a mortal knowing one of their
greater names primarily because of the added edge
it grants in subjugating them to service.
Above the greater names are the true names of
which a demon will only ever have one. A demon
will never willingly reveal its true name to any
creature as it has the potential to grant absolute
power to any who know it. When one demon learns
the true name of another, it will be able to guarantee
service without heed of falling into a debt that must
be repaid - the other demon is effectively enslaved.
A demonologist will actively pursue the true name
of any demon as it can grant him a greater edge in
controlling it than any other factor. A less powerful
demon, such as a vrock, can be instantly cowed by
an accomplished demonologist in possession of its
true name. The greatest of demons, the balors and
pit fiends for example, may well be able to resist
even this power but it can grant enough leverage to
bring them into service for a short time. When
summoning such mighty and baleful creatures, a
demonologist will quickly find he needs every
possible advantage he can muster. True names are
seen as essential components of any summoning
ritual designed to control these creatures by most
22

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
demonologists. Actually using the true name of any
demon, however, will earn the summoner its
permanent enmity. It will simply not suffer any
such mortal to live. The application of the true
name during the summoning ritual may guarantee
control but if the demon can find its own way into
the material world, such temerity will be rewarded
in the most painful and grisly fashion the demon can
devise.
The process of locating greater and true names of
the demons they summon is a trying and exacting
one for any demonologist. Greater names are hard
to find to say the least and it is unusual for texts
describing summonations to include them unless the
author was particularly knowledgeable. Those that
also include true names are virtually unheard of, not
least because a demon will do all in its power to
destroy such works. More often, a mortal must
travel far and wide to locate such valuable
information and may find it turns up from the most
unrelated of sources.
Enterprising demonologists have been known in the
past to summon one demon simply to learn the
greater or true name of another. This is a practice
fraught with danger and uncertainty for even if a
demon knows such a name, being forced to relate it
will earn the demonologist the enmity of both
demons for he will be meddling directly in the
convoluted politics of the infernal planes.
Using Named Demons
Any demon with a Challenge Rating of 7 or more is
considered to be a named demon. Any demon
below this rating can be summoned using 'standard'
rituals common to their species as a whole. Named
demons are unique individuals and a learnt
summoning ritual will summon that demon and that
demon alone. Needless to say, if the demon is ever
permanently slain by any means, the demonologist
will no longer be able to summon it again - the time
spent locating and learning the ritual is wasted.
The research of greater and true names is a process
handled entirely by the Games Master. He will let
the player know whether the sources of knowledge
uncovered include such information. If they do not,
the player will have to search harder to locate them,
if they exist at all. Common names, however, will
be present in any text describing the summoning of
any particular demon and this is all that is required
to actually perform the summoning ritual.
A greater name grants a +5 bonus to the Control
check when performing the summoning ritual for
the demon. A true name grants a+10 bonus. Only
one such bonus may be used for any one Control
check and you will quickly find this knowledge is
essential for controlling the more powerful demons.
BLOOD SACRIFICES
The archetypal demonologist, for many common
folk, is one who performs the most hideous ritual
sacrifices in the pursuit of his black art. The truth is
a little different and many demonologists actually
shun such practices. Others limit themselves to
using only common creatures, those the civilised
races slay every day in the names of sustenance and
sport.
It is an undeniable fact though that demons of all
types delight in both the misery and death of other
creatures. A blood sacrifice may be incorporated
into any summoning ritual by a demonologist and,
in doing so, be granted a little extra power in
compelling the demon to service.
Using Blood Sacrifices
Any warm-blooded creature, from a chicken to an
elf, may be used as a blood sacrifice in a
summoning ritual. The creature must be alive,
though not necessarily aware, throughout the ritual
and must be slain by the demonologist immediately
before the demon is drawn into the material world at
its completion.
A blood sacrifice adds a +1 bonus to the Control
check for any type of demon.
GROUP SUMMONINGS
It is a very rare occurrence, given the basic nature of
demonology, but demonologists have been known to
combine their powers in order to perform a
particularly difficult summoning ritual. Such
gatherings are often fraught with mistrust, even
treachery, but it is often the only way a
demonologist can summon the more powerful
creatures of the infernal planes with any degree of
safety.
23

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
Performing a Group Summoning
Any summoning ritual may be developed into a
group summoning by a demonologist. Only arcane
wizards, demonologists and binders are permitted to
take part. One demonologist must lead the
summoning and it is upon his skill and ability the
attempt is based. The others, however, will add a
bonus to both the Summoning and Control checks
according to their class level.
Total the class levels of each wizard, demonologist
and binder present and divide this by three, rounding
down. The result is the bonus used for the
Summoning and Control checks. A maximum of six
people may take part in a group summoning and
none will count towards the distraction penalty as
they are all, of course, an intrinsic part of the
summoning.
'The end of the Dark Road is not a pleasant place.
They don't call it the Dark Road for nothing you
idiot!'
Haras Ventrus, Master at the College of Magic -
from a lecture to new students.
POSSESSION
The more powerful of demonic entities have the
ability to possess mortal beings, subjugating the host
to their complete domination. This is usually done
either to cause the maximum amount of harm to
the mortal who dared to summon them
or to stay within the material world for
protracted periods of time in order to
fulfil their own malevolent plans outside
of the infernal planes. Accomplished
demonologists can also force the
possession of other mortals as a means
to trap the demon in the material world
for longer than the summoning ritual
might ordinarily allow.
The subject of possession will lose all control of
his body, though he remains conscious and
aware. The demon takes control of his body
utterly and the victim can do nothing more
than watch mutely as the demon performs
the most vile and hideous of acts in his name.
Physical changes also take place, with the body
straining to take the shape of both mortal and
demon simultaneously. With some demons, the
physical effects may be lessened - a succubus
possessing a human female, for example, may result
in nothing more than the softening of features and
the growing of vestigial wings. A halfling body
straining to contain a balor though is likely to cause
a twisting beyond all recognition. Bones will grow
and reshape, muscles will swell and skin change and
reform into the likeness of the demonic entity.
For the victim, this is a process almost beyond all
endurance, for being aware and a witness to these
terrible transformations, they must suffer the
absolute agony of the reformation of their bodies.
Many go mad during these short seconds alone,
others as they are forced to occupy the same mental
space as the ultimate evil that is a demon. The
physical and mental effects possession causes are
permanent with no mundane cure. Even if the
demon can be driven out of a host, the victim is
likely to be left crippled and unable to function
within normal society. Such is the price for
succumbing to the demon.
ACCIDENTAL
POSSESSION
Only named demons can attempt to possess a mortal
being by their own power. If the Control check is
failed during a summoning ritual, a
Games Master may rule instead of
attacking the demonologist,
24

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
the demon will attempt possession. This is a full-
round action for the demon.
The summoner must make a successful Will Save at
DC 10 + the demon's Challenge Rating to resist the
possession attempt. If the summoner passes the Will
Save, the demon may never attempt to possess him
again. If the Will Save is failed, the demon's
attempt at possession is successful and the
summoner is in very serious trouble.
the innate willpower to drive the demon out. This is
entirely dependant on the foothold the demon
managed to gain during the act of possession which
is determined by the amount the victim failed the
Will Save, as detailed on the Possession Table
below. Even after regaining control, the victim is
likely to be seriously damaged in both mind and
body. The side effects on the Possession Table
below are applied immediately after the demon
leaves the host body and the effects are, again,
The summoner will immediately come under the
complete domination of the demon and effectively
becomes a non-player character in the control of the
Games Master (though those interested in role-
playing may relish the idea of trying their hand at a
diabolic character, for however short a period of
time).
Physically, a number of things now happen. First,
all ability scores and Hit Points are averaged
between host and demon into new scores, rounding
down. The host will gain all special abilities and
qualities, skills and saving throw bonuses of the
possessing demon. Finally, a melding of the
physical forms of host and demon will occur - the
Games Master will inform the player concerned of
the specific details. As an incidental consequence,
the host also gains the immortality of the demon,
their body now driven and sustained by raw demonic
energy.
At the discretion of the Games Master, the host
body may also gain one or more of the physical
attacks of the possessing demon, with claw and bite
attacks being the most common.
These effects will remain until the demon leaves the
host body though the physical changes to
appearance are permanent. A demon may choose to
leave the host body at any time to return to the
infernal planes, though as demons are immortal
creatures who have existed for aeons, this may well
not occur for a great many years, decades or
centuries. The host may, however, be able to exert
permanent. Where ability scores must be modified,
the player concerned may choose which are
effected. The reductions may be spread across
several ability scores if desired. In addition, the
victim will also be reduced to one Hit Point as his
body is wracked with the strain of having contained
the demon for however short a period of time.
These effects cannot be reversed with spells such as
Restoration, as he is now effectively part demon,
though Wish spells will function to remove both
physical changes and the side effects on the table
above. If a period of possession falls in between
any of the limits listed below, as can happen with
self-possession for instance, then the next highest
side effect is used. A character possessed for 3
hours, for example, will suffer the effects of having
been possessed for a day.
POSSESSING OTHERS
In order to gain the service of a demon for a greater
length of time, a demonologist with few morals may
attempt the difficult process of forcing the demon
into a mortal host. Whilst few demons find the act
of possessing distasteful, doing so at the behest of a
summoner can leave them under his control for
longer periods, something they will strenuously try
to avoid. It is not only named demons, however,
that can be forced to possess a host. The strength of
will of the demonologist in itself can permit any
species to possess another, so even a lowly dretch or
imp may be utilised in this way.
25
Will Save failed by
1-3
4-8
9-12
13+
Time Possessed
1 hour
1 day
1 year
Permanent
Side Effects
-1 Wis and Cha, -1,000 XP
-Id6 ability scores, -1,000 XP
-Id6 ability scores, - Id6 x 1,000 XP
-2d6 ability scores, - 2d6 x 1,000 XP
Possession Table

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
To possess another, the demonologist must have
another sentient being immobile and present within
the pentagram throughout the summoning ritual.
Further more, such a victim must be conscious and
aware throughout the ritual and so a demonologist
must devise his own methods for holding subjects
ready for possession during the lengthy summoning
process. The demon can then be summoned as
normal.
There is an additional —4 penalty to the Control
check when attempting to force a demon to possess
another as it is virtual imprisonment for the demon
concerned and it will battle that much harder to
circumvent the demonologist's will. The penalty for
distraction does not apply to the intended victim of
possession as they are an intrinsic part of the ritual.
The demonologist must specify his instruction to the
demon during the Control check as normal and this
is what the demon will be compelled to do for as
long as it possesses the victim. If the Control check
fails, the demonologist loses all control of the
demon and it will attack him immediately (and may
attempt to possess him in return!). If the Control
check is successful, then the victim must make a
Will Save to avoid possession by the demon, as
described in the previous Accidental Possession
section. The demonologist may apply his Charisma
bonus as a modifier to the demon's roll as he exerts
his own will alongside that of the demon's to break
down the mental defences of the victim and force
the possession through. If the victim is willing at
the point of possession (immediately after the
Control check), then no Will Save takes place - the
demon possesses the victim permanently, as if the
Will Save had been failed by 13 or more.
If the possession fails, the demon will immediately
return to the infernal planes and the whole attempt
is a wasted exercise. If it succeeds, possession
occurs as described in the Accidental Possession
section, with the full effects being applied to the
victim. The only exceptions are that the demon may
not return to the infernal planes until the duration of
the possession is over and that neither it nor the host
have free will - both are subject to the instruction
given by the demonologist before the possession
took place.
DRIVING OUT THE
DEMON
It is entirely possible that friends of a victim of
possession will seek every means to drive out the
demon and allow their companion to return to
something approaching normality. There is,
however, no known process to accomplish this
through the practice of demonology and normal
Dispel Magic spells will not remove the possession.
Dismissal, Banishment and Holy Word spells will
work to remove the possession, as will Dictum and
Word of Chaos. Paladins or good-aligned clerics
without access to such spells may attempt to drive
the demon out by sheer force of will, though this
never leaves the victim unharmed and completely
whole.
Any paladin or good-aligned cleric may attempt to
drive the demon out of a victim in the same way as
they turn undead, using the demon's Challenge
Rating as they would Hit Dice for undead. The
demon will seek to avoid the attempt at all costs,
fleeing if it is able or actively attacking the cleric.
If successful, the demon will be driven from the
victim, materialising in its true form and
immediately attacking the cleric. It will remain in
the material world for a period of one hour, during
which time it will likely be hunting down the
demonologist who forced its possession, or simply
seeking to cause as much destruction to mortal life
as it is able. The victim will suffer the side effects
for possession as normal.
Possessing demons can never be destroyed, rebuked
or controlled by this form of driving out and only a
paladin or good-aligned cleric may attempt this
process.
DISMISSING DEMONS
There may come a time when a demonologist is
required to end the service of a demon prematurely.
Such circumstances can be many and varied, coming
to peace with an enemy the demon has been
summoned to fight being one example.
In these cases, a demonologist is required to make a
Dismiss check at any time during the demon's
service. This Dismiss check is at DC 10 + the
demon's Challenge Rating and may only be
attempted against a demon the demonologist
himself summoned. He must be within 60 feet of
26

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
the demon and it must not be in total cover relative
to him. One attempt may be made to dismiss the
demon every round and it is counted as a full-round
action. Success in this Dismiss check will result in
the demon immediately returning to the infernal
planes.
As must be abundantly clear, a demonologist must
instruct his demons carefully, particularly if they are
powerful beings in their own right. A demon poorly
instructed and unleashed upon the world can cause
an immense amount of damage with the
demonologist being almost powerless to stop it.
Possession in Action
Fallora has progressed quite far in the field of demonology since we last left her. She has now achieved 4th
level as a demonologist and feels ready to summon the succubus known as the Debaucheress, using research
material she uncovered from the notes of an evil wizard she and her adventuring comrades recently put an end
to.
Everything seems to be going fine in the summoning ritual for Fallora, as always, is taking her time, using high
quality components and generally doing everything she can to make sure nothing goes wrong. She easily
summons the succubus but as it appears in the pentagram in front if her, the unthinkable happens - Fallora's
player rolls a 1 for the Control check. Grinning with the lovely maliciousness only a succubus can muster, the
Debaucheress advances forward across the boundaries of the pentagram. Fearing for her life, Fallora begins to
cast an offensive spell until she realises that the demon is not attacking her directly - it is assaulting her very
mind.
Fallora's Wisdom of 12 will help here as her Will Save bonus is now +5. The DC of the save is 10 + the
succubus' CR 9. It is a tough roll, needing 14 or more and, rolling 11, Fallora quickly succumbs to the
Debaucheress' mental attack though it will only be able to control her for one hour. She is now possessed and
falls under the control of the Games Master until one hour has passed and the succubus returns to the infernal
planes.
Fallora, as the host for the succubus, immediately gains all the demon's skills and saving throw bonuses, as
well as all its special abilities, such as energy drain, alternate form and tongues. In addition, their ability
scores must be averaged out between them. Fallora's scores are Str 8, Dex 13, Con 9, Int 15, Wis 12, Cha 11.
The succubus' scores are Str 13, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 16, Wis 14, Cha 20. The new scores for Fallora, averaged
between her original abilities and those of the succubus are therefore Str 10, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 15, Wis 13,
Cha 15. Her hit points of 12 are also averaged with those of the succubus' of 33 to result in 22 hit points.
Last of all, much to Fallora's consternation, she becomes physically more demonic! She starts to grow small
bat-like wings and her eyes begin to glow with a sinister light.
Fortunately for Fallora, the possession lasts only an hour and the succubus soon departs, though not without
destroying her laboratory in which it was summoned, tearing apart her demonological notes and slaughtering
her familiar which did not get out of the way in time. She loses the succubus' skills and special abilities, her
ability scores are returned to what they were before the possession took place and she now has one hit point
left. She regains, however, full control of her own body again.
The effect, brief as it was, has unfortunately not left Fallora completely untouched for she still retains the
physical likeness of a succubus. She also loses one point from her Wisdom and Charisma ability scores
permanently, as well as 1000 experience points.
The whole affair has left Fallora questioning whether she will continue the practice of demonology at all - in
the very least she is likely to be very cautious in the art for the future. She also realises, however, that the
possession could have been much, much worse. Overall, she has got off lightly.
27

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE NEOPHYTE
DEMONIC FAMILIARS
As they cultivate their growing knowledge of the
black art, demonologists often seek to enhance
all around them with the energies they
learn to control. Many will look to
their own familiars, if they have one.
There are many minor demonic entities
that flit about within the infernal
planes, all but beneath the attention of
the larger demons, as ants scamper
unnoticed by men. Such beings may
be brought into the material world by
any demonologist with the intention of
possessing his own familiar.
Creating a Demonic Familiar
Any demonologist with a familiar may choose to possess it with a minor demonic entity at any time. Doing so
takes a day and uses up magical materials totalling a cost of 500 gp. Demonic familiars function in exactly the
same way as mundane familiars, with the exceptions noted below.
The demonic familiar retains its original form, but will begin to look distinctly demonic in nature - a cat may
grow horns or vestigial wings, for example, or the eyes of an owl may begin to glow with their own inner light.
The demonic presence may be driven out by a banishment spell and similar magicks. If this occurs, the
familiar automatically leaves the demonologist, as it will never trust its master again. Treat this as if the
familiar had died.
Familiar special abilities are granted as normal, but a demonic familiar will also gain the abilities listed below;
28
Master Class Level
1-2
3-4
5-6
7-8
9-10
Special Ability
Immune to fire and poison
See in Darkness (including magical)
Invisibility once a day
Cold and acid resistance 20
Master may speak telepathically with any creature who has language
whenever he is in physical contact with the demonic familiar

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE DARK ROAD
THE ART OF
SUMMONING —
THE DARK
ROAD
We now approach the end of the Dark Road,
the conclusion of our journey. If a mage
has travelled this far in his study of
demonology and managed to survive, he is truly a
man of great power. Likely as not, he has the
knowledge of many demons, has cowed them into
submission and forced them to do his bidding. He
will have conversed with the fell creatures and
learned many secrets never intended for mortal
understanding. The experienced demonologist is a
force to be feared.
The Dark Road stretches on though and those
determined to see its end harbour a desperate need to
access the greatest powers of all. They will seek to
summon and control the very lords of the infernal
planes, those implacable beings of awesome might
who are themselves subservient only to the dark
gods. They will consider themselves the very equal
of such creatures as the pit fiend and the balor,
seeking to break their will and drive these powerful
demons to service. To do so, they may be forced to
adopt the most extraordinary of measures, for the
strength and wrath these beings possess is almost
beyond comprehension. The end of the Dark Road
will reveal these methods to the dedicated
practitioner but the dangers become all the greater.
It is here that a demonologist will learn the secrets of
soul sacrifices, soul servitude and self-possession.
There are few who can contain such power without
overreaching themselves with the most fatal of
consequences. Those able to dominate the mighty
demonic lords can only be regarded as the true
masters of both the mortal and the ever-living.
SELF-POSSESSION
There are more than a few demonologists who, upon
witnessing the effects of possession on others, are
driven to uncover the forbidden lore of taking the
demon into themselves in an effort to harness its
power through more direct means. Only a tiny
fraction of these individuals will go through the
black rites required for the dangers are all too
apparent. By allowing a demon to enter him both
mind and body, the demonologist is confronting the
greatest of evils within the most personal of
battlefields. The creature is by no means a passive
observer and constantly twists and turns inside his
darkest mental recesses, trying to assert its own
control as it continually plagues him with the most
horrific of nightmare visions and dreams.
Outwardly, the demonologist suffers all the torture
and damage any other victim of possession does, as
his body reshapes itself agonisingly to adopt the
form of both man and demon. However, he also
gains the demon's strength, power and knowledge,
and it is these boons the demonologist seeks to the
detriment of all else. A demonologist skilled in self-
possession truly knows the ecstasy of being far more
than a mere mortal. So long as he can keep the
demon at bay through the sheer force of his
personality, he will be the equal of almost anything
he sets his imagination to. In doing so, though, the
practitioner suffers permanent disfigurement and
runs the risk of the demon overpowering his mental
strength.
Those who pay little heed to the dangers of self-
possession are often drawn inexorably to a far more
perilous part of the Dark Road. Exchanging the
practice of demonology to become one of the
possessed, they slowly bargain away their souls by
fractions through intimate and insidious pacts with
infernal creatures. Down this route lies possibly the
greatest power known but journey's end can only
ever be damnation.
Performing Self-Possession
A practitioner must have a rank of 8 or greater in
Demon Lore before he may attempt any self-
possession. Any demon successfully summoned and
29

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE DARK ROAD
controlled may be compelled to possess the
summoner himself in lieu of any other instructions.
The demonologist must specify the length of time
the self-possession is to last, up to a period of one
year and a day. He immediately suffers all the
bonuses and penalties for possession as described on
p25, with one exception - he retains free will and is
not subject to the wishes of the demon. His physical
appearance will permanently change, his ability and
hit point scores averaged and he will receive all
skills, saving throw bonuses and special qualities of
the demon. However, he may still act as he pleases
and does not become a non-player character.
The demon will constantly strive to gain dominance
of the demonologist's body though and this battle
will rage until the self-possession ends. Every 24
hours after the self-possession begins, the
demonologist must make a successful Will check at
a DC equal to the demon's Challenge Rating as it
nutures and marshals its strength to assert its power
over his body. Success will mean the demonologist
has brought his mental forces to bear and defeats the
demon's attempt. Failure will result in the demon
flooding, unchecked, through his mind as it gains
the upper hand. From this point, the demonologist
is treated as having been
accidentally possessed and
so becomes a non-
player character.
Furthermore, this
will be
considered a
permanent
possession as the
demonologist
allowed the demon
to enter his body
willingly. . .
The self-possession ends
automatically when the length
of time specified by the
demonologist is complete.
The demon may also be
forced out by the normal
methods of magic and good-
aligned clerics and paladins,
as described on p26. The
demonologist may also
willingly drive the demon out earlier, at any point,
simply by making a Will check at a DC 10 + the
demon's Challenge Rating. This may be attempted
only once a day. Failure will result in the demon
immediately striking back, trying to take over the
demonologist's body once more. Make a Will check
at a DC equal to the demon's Challenge Rating to
avoid the possession attempt, as described in the
previous paragraph.
A demonologist interested in pursuing the practice
of self-possession may be naturally drawn towards
the making of permanent pacts with the demons he
summons. Players are directed to review the
possessed prestige class on pll.
SOUL SACRIFICES I
The single greatest advantage a demonologist can
gain over any being of the infernal planes in the
normal course of summoning is to have a soul to
bargain with. It is this practice alone that has earnt
every demonologist the enmity of the forces of
good, whether or not they perform the soul sacrifice.
In offering the soul of another sentient being to a
demon in return for service, the practitioner is doing
far more than merely slaying his victim. He is
condemning the immortal soul to an eternity of
pain, torture and anguish as the plaything and pawn
of demons. This repugnant practice is believed
necessary by many of the more
skilled demonologists, for a
suitable sacrifice may
convince even demonic
lords to comply to
instruction, such is the
boon they receive upon
returning to the infernal
planes.
The actual process of
performing a soul
sacrifice is relatively
simple and any
demonologist can
readily adapt
summoning rituals he is
familiar with to
incorporate the extra
power to be gained by
this practice. The
main requirement is a
living sentient being -
no beast or animal
will be sufficient, for
these only fulfil the requirements of a blood
sacrifice. The victim must be alive and aware
throughout the long summoning ritual.
30

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE DARK ROAD
Additionally, they must be in the possession of a
soul, be they goblin, ogre, human or dragon. At the
completion of the summoning ritual, just as the
demon is about to appear and be made manifest, the
demonologist slays his victim, usually by the
application of a knife through the heart. At this
point, the victim's soul departs, to be immediately
snatched by the arriving demon and is lost for
eternity, whether or not the demonologist succeeds
in controlling the demon.
The practitioner is likely to gain an immense
advantage over the demon as he seeks to control it
but the soul of the victim must suffer in return, for a
price must always be paid somewhere in the black
art of demonology. Forever will the soul wander the
infernal planes, wreathed in flame and tormented by
fell creatures as it is used as a bargaining tool
between demons in trades it may never comprehend,
or be mutated into lesser demonic entities and used
as cannon fodder in the eternal wars of hell.
Using Soul Sacrifices
Any sentient being the Games Master rules has a
soul (yes, ores have souls too!) may be used as a
victim of a soul sacrifice by a demonologist in a
summoning ritual. The being must be kept alive,
aware and immobile throughout the ritual. So long
as this is accomplished, the slaying of the victim
may be considered automatic, regardless of hit point
considerations. The slaying of the victim takes
place after the Summoning check, but before the
Control check.
If the victim escapes or is rescued during the ritual,
then the Summoning check automatically fails and
all components are wasted, as normal. If the
Summoning check is successful but the victim is
able to gain freedom just as the demonologist
prepares to make the sacrifice, the demon appears
and the Control check automatically fails with the
usual consequences.
A successful soul sacrifice, however, is likely to
grant the demonologist a tremendous bonus to his
Control check. This bonus is equal to the character
level or hit dice of the victim, whichever is higher.
Demons especially favour the corruption of the good
and pure and the soul of one who is particularly
noble of heart can compel even the mighty balors
and pit fiends to service. The bonus is doubled if
the soul of a paladin or good-aligned cleric is
offered as a sacrifice.
A victim of a soul sacrifice may never be
resurrected by any means, even through the use of a
Wish spell. Their souls are far beyond the reach of
such magic and imprisoned by the great demonic
powers of the infernal planes.
A soul sacrifice may never be combined with a
blood sacrifice. Only one victim may be used in
any one summoning ritual.
SOUL SERVITUDE
Very few practitioners of demonology ever uncover
the lore necessary to bind themselves to soul
servitude and it is perhaps well they do not. In such
a practice, they make a dangerous pact with a single
demon, trading temporary but total control over the
creature for their own soul. This is the path of utter
damnation and for those who reach this far, marks
the end of the Dark Road as a mortal.
A demon's interest in the soul of a demonologist is
two-fold. Firstly, and most pragmatically, all are
keen to halt the spread of demonology. Each
demon, high or low, has its own machinations and
plans of ambition to fulfil upon the infernal planes
but by some quirk of the universe, mortals may open
gates between these hellish places and the material
worlds. It may be amusing to consider a great
demonic lord leading his hordes over the parapets of
a hated rival's castle of skulls, only to disappear as
he is drawn to mortal realms. The demon, however,
is unlikely to see the humour itself. And yet such
instances are occasionally heard.
Secondly, demons have a passion for corrupting and
twisting mortals to their own designs. By offering
their own soul, demonologists descend far below the
point of decency any mortal may reach through their
own simple and petty vices.
There are few demons able to resist the lure of the
soul of even a relatively inexperienced demonologist
and many will be prepared to endure the degradation
of service to a mortal in order to obtain it. The
demonologist who successfully performs soul
servitude will gain the service of the demon for a
year and a day. During this period, the demon will
comply to any instruction at any time, potentially
granting the practitioner tremendous power to fulfil
his worldly concerns. After a year and a day has
passed, the practitioner's soul becomes the property
of the demon, to do with as it pleases.
31

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE DARK ROAD
Only the weakest of demons will seek to take the
soul immediately in order to reap immediate
benefits within the infernal planes, causing the
instantaneous death of the demonologist as the body
cannot exist without the soul. More powerful
demons will both toy with the practitioner and use
him to further their own ends upon the material
worlds. He will become an agent of evil, unable to
resist the compulsions and whims of his demonic
lord. Though retaining free will much of the time,
the victim will become a mere tool of the demon,
forced to perform the most heinous of acts and
forever living in fear of the knowledge that, one day,
the demon will come to collect.
Attempting Soul Servitude
A demonologist may only perform soul servitude
with a named demon and he must have a demon lore
rank of ten or greater. Possessed may never attempt
soul servitude for their souls have already been sold,
piece by piece. In the same way, a practitioner who
has performed soul servitude may never take the
possessed prestige class. Their soul is no longer
theirs to bargain with.
A demonologist who offers soul servitude to a
demon he summons gains a bonus to his Control
check equal to three times his character level. As
can be readily seen, even the most powerful of
demons are likely to be compelled by this.
Success in the Control check will result in the
demon lord compelled to obey every instruction the
demonologist issues for one year and a day from the
time of summoning. These instructions do not have
to be stated when the demon is summoned, as is
usual, but instead any can be given at any time and
they will automatically be obeyed. If the demon's
physical form is slain whilst on the material world,
it will return to the infernal planes but,
unfortunately for the demonologist, the soul
servitude is not nullified and after the year and a
day, he will be beholden to the demon as described
below.
Regardless of whether the Control check is
successful or not, the demonologist's soul will pass
to demonic hands. From this point on he will not be
able to be resurrected by any means.
Once the year and a day has elapsed, the practitioner
will immediately have his soul snatched by the
demon if it is relatively weak (Challenge Rating 7 or
8). Due to the pact made with the demon, his soul
will be ripped from his body and taken to the
infernal planes, slaying him instantly.
In other cases, the demonologist will come under
the complete domination of the demon he has made
soul servitude with. This may be played out in one
of two ways, as determined by the Games Master.
The first choice is for the demon to compel the
practitioner to become its agent in the material
world, performing all manner of perverse and
destructive acts in the name of pure evil before his
soul is finally collected by the demon. The character
becomes a non-player character under the control of
the Games Master and may well turn into the hated
enemy of the rest of the party in future scenarios.
The second choice is for the demonologist to
become the very hand of evil as described above,
but under the control of the player. This is
recommended only for veteran role-players but it
can provide some of the most tense moments any
gaming group may experience.
An Agent of Evil
It is strongly recommended that both player and
Games Master consider the consequences of playing
out soul servitude beyond the point where the
practitioner falls under the sway of the demon, for it
32

THE ART OF SUMMONING - THE DARK ROAD
has the potential to alter the structure of an entire
campaign. In most cases, groups will be far better
off with the demonologist simply becoming a non-
player character. That said, there is always the
possibility of high drama, particularly if the rest of
the party is good-aligned and collectively work
together to thwart the machinations of the demon
that has their friend in its grip. An evil-aligned
party, however, may welcome the entrance of a
demonic patron. . .
Once a year and a day has passed of the practitioner
being able to compel the demon with which he has
made soul servitude, their positions reverse. The
Games Master must, from this point, always keep in
mind how twisted and malevolently evil demons
really are. They delight in pain, torture and
destruction, being perfectly willing to see thousands
of innocents perish for their mere amusement. They
will enjoy toying with the demonologist, forever
reminding him his soul is theirs for the taking at any
time, as they watch him further their plans and
ambitions in the material world.
Once soul servitude has been made, a demon may
always see and hear through the practitioner's own
senses merely by concentrating, even whilst on the
infernal planes, so close is this bond. The
demonologist will always be able to sense the
foreboding presence of the demon whenever it does
this. In this way, they are forever able to watch and
monitor the progress of their servant to ensure he
acts according to their dark plans.
The demonologist retains free will throughout the
soul servitude and may act as he wishes at any time.
There are, however, three methods by which the
demon may compel him to do as it demands. First,
the demon is able to speak directly to the
practitioner at any time, whether whilst awake or
within his dreams, again simply by concentrating.
If threats and black promises fail to sufficiently
motivate him, the demon is then able to either
possess him or take his soul. Possession occurs
automatically, with no chance of the demonologist
resisting and the demon is able to leave at any time
of its choosing, though its victim will suffer the
usual side effects as described on p25. The taking
of a soul is the ultimate threat for this is something
the body cannot exist without. Such an action will
automatically slay the demonologist, with no chance
of reversal or resurrection as his soul descends to the
infernal planes to be forever a plaything of his
demonic master. This is the ultimate fate of all who
make soul servitude, for the demon will inevitably
come to collect one day. All the demonologist can
do is follow the designs of his master, hoping that
by proving himself capable, he staves off the cruel
attentions of the demon for as long as possible.
It may be hard to imagine what a demon could
possibly want from the material world, especially as
it is likely to be up to its neck in the convoluted
politics of the infernal planes. However, demons
and other immortals have always had a peculiar
interest in the affairs of those on the material world,
taking great delight in influencing or destroying
them with mighty, awesome power.
The initial tasks set before a demonologist under
soul servitude are likely to be minor, petty even, as
the demon weighs up its new tool. Simply visiting
pain and destruction upon those nearby may be one
course. Alternatively, a more practical approach
may be taken, such as seeking the death of a noble
knight who has too often thwarted the plans of evil,
or another demonologist who has dominated many
demonic allies for far too long. Beyond this, nobles
may be corrupted, entire cities subverted and
kingdoms toppled as the demonologist, aided by his
demonic master, is compelled to build cults and
followings dedicated to causing the greatest amount
33

THE DARK ROAD
of destruction possible. A demon's
vision of its own ambition is truly
infinite and its plans will always
reflect this. Just as the demonologist
begins to think he can do no more for1
his master, the demon will start to
relate a new set of demands, further
propelling him into becoming an
enemy of all that is good and pure.
There are two more things to consider.
First of all, demons regularly use the
souls in their possession as bargaining
tokens to further their own ends upon
the infernal planes, always the prime
concern. Being immortal, demons do
not view the passage of time in quite
the same way as those on the material
world and the passing of a mortal's
lifetime is of little moment to such
creatures. However, there remains the
possibility of a demonologist suddenly
finding himself beholden to a far more
powerful demon then he originally
bargained for as his soul gets passed on,
perhaps even as far as one of the very
lords of hell. If this unfortunate event
ever occurs, he will suddenly be
confronted with an increasingly
domineering master who is likely to
demand a lot more from the soul
servitude.
Second, one day, whether it is sooner or
later, the demon will come to collect its
due. After the ritual of servitude, the
practitioner's soul becomes the property entire of the
demon. For weeks, months or years it will tease and
torment the pitiful demonologist, always reminding
him his time on the material world is at its
sufferance and that one day, the debt must be paid in
full. Some in the past have sought their own deaths
rather than be made the plaything of demons, only to
find their soul has already been claimed by the
infernal planes. A practitioner may gain an
incredible amount of power from soul servitude but,
ultimately, damnation is the only end from which
there can be no escape.
A Final Thought
The one question to be asked is who would dare risk
soul servitude, even for the power gained? The rules
for soul servitude may seem unduly harsh, even
considering the tone of the rest of this book and this
is purely intentional. Soul servitude must never be
considered lightly and is likely to result in, at least,
the retirement of the character concerned. That
said, during playtesting we uncovered a number of
highly imaginative, not to say daring, methods of
escaping soul servitude once it had been made.
Most players tend to spend their time working out
increasingly ingenious ways of breaking free of soul
servitude, once it has been made. This process we
will leave up to the individual Games Master as to
whether he will allow players the chance to release
themselves of what is effectively and literally a
binding contract. All that can be said is that the
price for doing so must be incredibly high, as is
right and proper for the practice of demOnology in
general.
34

BOUND DEMONS
BOUND
DEMONS
The binding of demons into inanimate objects
is a highly specialised field within
demonology, with its own set of risks and
benefits. Those who practice these skills tend to be
either demonologists seeking to gain more
permanent boons from the creatures they summon or
arcane wizards specialised in the crafting of
powerful magical items, desperately hoping to find a
greater source of strength for their constructions.
The process of binding a demon into any object is
lengthy, costly and arduous but such items have the
potential to be far more potent than those created
through traditional magicks. They also have the
additional benefit that the demon provides all the
arcane energy required during the
crafting, so the practitioner expends
little or none of his own life force to
fashion the most powerful of
magical items.
Nothing, however, is gained
for nothing in magic and for
the art of demonology, there is
always a heavy price waiting
to be levied upon those who
travel too fast down the Dark
Road. For any demon, from
the lowliest lemure to the
greatest lords of the infernal,
binding is nothing short of,
potentially, eternal
imprisonment. The process
literally locks them within an
inanimate object, be it sword,
shield or trinket box, forcing them
to prolonged servitude as they expend
powers at the behest of a mortal
bearer. Whilst almost any demon may
be beaten into submission of service
by a practitioner of incredible
will, they will struggle and
fight to avoid binding,
attempting to strike at the
summoner with all the power
they possess. This makes the
art of binding a truly
dangerous one for the
summoner, who must be able to contend with
devastating assaults from the demons he intends to
enslave. Furthermore, whilst bound into its prison,
the demon continues to struggle, to batter down the
magical restraints that hold it thus. Even the
weakest of demons may achieve this, given enough
time. A demon breaking free of its bondage will be
taken with a terrible rage, exacting its vengeance on
the bearer of the item.
Those that dare to harness demonic energies in order
to power the arcane items they fashion are known as
binders. Though the field of binding is very
specialised within demonology as a whole, its
practitioners tend to be incredibly adept at both the
summoning and controlling of a multitude of
demons. They are a source of fantastically potent
magical items, limited only by money, their own
skill and how far they are prepared to travel down
the Dark Road. Such items often become the very
stuff of legends and most bards can relate a tale of a
demonic sword and its ultimately doomed wielder.
Weapons are the most common of demonically-
charged items for they are much sought after by
warriors of few scruples. These are weapons
that can almost literally grant their wielder
the speed and strength of the mightiest of
demons. Demonic armour, for its
part, bequeaths the wearer with
the full multitude of
defences demons
themselves take for granted,
whilst rods, staffs, wands
and other far more exotic
items provide an even greater range of
abilities. Rings are potentially the most dangerous
of all, allowing an adventurer to call a controlled
demon forth at will to do his bidding. A mortal
empowered with such items will have access to
such power as to be able to battle the creatures of
the abyss on an equal footing but always he should
be aware of the demons he carries about on his
very person.
BINDING
DEMONS
The process of binding
demons is, in many ways, very
similar to that of crafting magical
items and indeed, one must be
skilled in the traditional methods
35

BOUND DEMONS
before becoming a binder. In the same way, any
demonic item is considered to be magical in every
respect - they can be located through the use of
Detect Magic spells, demonic swords will wound
creatures immune to mundane weaponry, etc...
The only prerequisite needed for the crafting of any
demonic item is the applicable special feat. To bind
a demon into a suit of armour, for example, requires
the Craft Magic Arms and Armour feat. There is no
experience point cost for any demonic item,
however, as the demon to be bound provides all the
magical energy required for the crafting. This factor
alone makes the practice of binding very appealing
to many practitioners who loathe donating their own
life force to an item they themselves may never use.
The basic cost of creating a demonic item rests
purely on the power of the demon being bound
within. Mightier demons require greater magical
bonds and so the cost of materials rises
proportionally. The base cost is equal to the
Challenge Rating of the demon times 2,500 gp.
Added to this is the cost of the item, which must
always be of the highest quality. Weapons and
armour must therefore be masterwork items. Last of
all is the component cost used to summon the
demon concerned, as described on p52.
Binding a demon into an item requires a place
where the practitioner will not be disturbed for
possibly many days. It takes one day per 1,000 gp
of the base cost of an item to create it, plus the time
required to perform the summoning ritual for the
demon. During this time, the binder may only work
on one item and may not perform any strenuous
activities such as fighting, casting spells or
conducting research. If he is ever distracted from
the work or takes a break of a day or more, the
process is ruined and all materials used will be
wasted.
Once the item has been successfully created, a
demon must be summoned and controlled to bind it
within, the binding taking place in lieu of any
instructions being given to the demon. There is an
additional -6 penalty to the Control check when a
binding is attempted. Failure in this roll will result
in the usual penalties of the demon turning upon the
binder, slaying or possessing him. The materials
used in creating the item will also be destroyed by
this. Once a named demon has been bound into an
item, it may not be summoned again until it breaks
free of the bondage.
There are no market prices listed for demonic items I
for most recognising them as such will likely turn
down any potential sale. If players attempt to pass
off demonic items as those of more traditional
magics, or if the buyer is happy to court danger with I
demons, the Games Master is encouraged to base
prices on the values of near-equivalent magic items
as listed in the Dungeon Master's Guide.
Powers of Demonic Items
Once a demon has been successfully bound by the
binder passing his Control check, the item will gain
a number of the demon's abilities and qualities,
depending on the level of the binder and the nature ;
of the item concerned.
Every binder may choose a number of these abilities
to endow the item with immediately after the demon
has been bound within and once chosen they may
never be changed or supplemented. How many is
determined is determined by the Demonic Ability
Slots column within the table on plO. A 4th level
binder, for example, may put two demonic abilities
from the demon he summons into a shield he is
crafting. A binder may always choose to put less
slots in the item than he has available. A demon
cannot be bound into an item with existing magical
powers, nor one that already has a bound demon
within.
In general, weapons may only be given offensive
abilities, armour those
defensive in nature, staffs and
wands spell-like abilities,
36

BOUND DEMONS
whilst wondrous items a far wider range still. Rings
can be forged to actually contain a demon and let it
be summoned forth at will to do the bearer's bidding
whilst rods grant the wielder direct power and
strength from the demon within. The Games Master
is always the final arbitrator of which abilities may
be put into what items. Potions and scrolls may
never have a demon bound into them - the infernal
energy is just to great for their physical structures to
contain.
The Breaking of Bondage
Every year after the demon's imprisonment into an
item, it will muster the energy to attempt to break
the magical enslavement. This is a dangerous time
for any mortal, for an enraged and uncontrolled
demon will seek nothing but vengeance upon the
bearer of the item that held it.
At this time, the player of the binder must make a
Binding check at DC the demon's Challenge Rating.
His binder class level at the time the item was
crafted is used as a bonus modifier. Success will
mean the demon stays imprisoned within the item
for another year. Failure will result in the demon
bursting forth, consumed by its wrath. The item
will be immediately destroyed by this and the
demon will seek the death of a single mortal - the
bearer of the item, though it will also happily attack
any comrades or any being within his vicinity, such
is its anger.
Demonic Armour
To create demonic armour, the binder will need a
suitable heat source and metal-working tools. Only
metal armour may be used to bind demons as leather
and wood is simply too weak to contain the colossal
energies involved and, furthermore, it must be
masterworked. The binder will also need the Craft
Magic Arms and Armour feat.
The binder may place a number of the demon's
special qualities into the armour, equal to the
number of Demonic Ability Slots listed on plO. The
first of these must always be an enhancement bonus
which is equal to the Challenge Rating of the
demon, divided by three and rounded down. The
minimum the enhancement bonus will be is +1 and
no armour may have a bonus greater than +5.
For the rest of the slots, the binder may choose any
qualities or feats that are defensive in nature - the
Dodge feat of a succubus, the Poison and Electricity
Immunity of any Tanar'ri, or the Fire Resistance 20
of an imp, for example.
The only exception to this is Damage Reduction,
which takes one slot for every 10 points, or part of,
damage reduced. Damage Reduction must be taken
in full or not at all. A practitioner binding a
cornugon, for instance, and wishing to utilise its
Damage Reduction of 20 must donate two slots for
the ability and may not just use one slot to take
Damage Reduction 10.
The Games Master is the final arbitrator of what
constitutes a defensive quality or feat and thus what
may be used in demonic armour.
Demonic Weaponry
To create demonic weaponry, the binder will need a
suitable heat source and metal-working tools. Only
predominately metal weapons may be used to bind
demons as wood is simply too weak to contain the
colossal energies involved. Swords, warhammers
and maces may thus be used, but crossbows may
not. In all cases, the weapon must be masterworked.
The binder will also need the Craft Magic Arms and
Armour feat.
The binder may place a number of the demon's
special qualities into the weapon, equal to the
number of Demonic Ability Slots listed on plO. The
first of these must always be an enhancement bonus
which is equal to the Challenge Rating of the
demon, divided by three and rounded down. The
minimum the enhancement bonus will be is +1 and
no weapon may have a bonus greater than +5.
For the rest of the slots, the binder may choose any
qualities or feats that are offensive in nature - the
poison of an imp, the dancing chains of a kyton, or
the body flames of a balor, for example.

BOUND DEMONS
At the time of creation, the
binder must also choose if
the weapon glows or not as
a side-effect of the bound
demon within. This does
not affect the cost of
creating the item but the
decision, once made, may
not be reversed. The glow
may take the form of the
entire weapon shining, or
just specified parts of it,
such as blood-red runes
down the blade of a black
sword...
A binder may also opt to
make the weapon
intelligent, though when
dealing with the twisted
beings of the infernal
planes, great care must be
taken. Such a weapon will
be malevolent in the
extreme. It takes a single
slot to make the weapon
intelligent, though the base
cost will be doubled. The
Intelligence, Wisdom and
Charisma of the weapon will
be that of the bound
demon's and its Ego will be
equal to the number of slots
within the weapon, plus the
ability score bonuses.
Intelligent demonic weapons
are unlikely to be of value to
any but the most evil of
mortals, for they will
constantly seek to subvert
any good intentions and greatly enjoy dominating
their wielder. The more powerful demons will be
more than capable of overcoming the wishes of most
- a sword with five slots and a bound balor
(Intelligence 20, Wisdom 20, Charisma 16), for
example, will have an Ego of 18! Needless to say,
this is not an option often taken, with binders
preferring to suppress the personalities of the
demon's they bind, lest the weapon turn upon its
wielder to bring about their utter ruin.
The Games Master is the final arbitrator of what
constitutes an offensive quality or feat and thus what
may be used in a demonic weapon.
Demonic Rings
Demonic rings are a little different from other items
listed here in that they do not empower the wearer
with demonic energies but rather allow him to
summon the demon forth, under his complete
control. Such rings require the Forge Ring feat for
their construction.
38

BOUND DEMONS
This may be done for an amount of times a day
equal to the number of slots available to the binder
during the ring's forging. A 6th level binder forging
a ring with a bound barbazu, for example, will
permit the wearer to summon the demon three times
a day.
Once summoned from the ring, the demon will
perform any one nine word instruction from the
wearer for a period of one hour. After the hour has
elapsed or the instruction has been completed,
whichever comes first, the demon will automatically
return to the ring.
Use of such rings is fraught with peril, however.
Every time the demon is summoned in this way, it
gains a very real chance to break free of its magical
bonds. A Binding check must be made every time
the demon is summoned from the ring or the demon
will break free, completely uncontrolled, with the
disastrous results described on p37.
Demonic Rods
Demons bound into rods give the bearer the
opportunity to call upon the demon's power directly,
literally gaining its strength and endurance. Such
rods require the Craft Rod feat for their
construction.
Upon the rod's construction, the binder may
choose to use slots for the demon's ability
scores, Hit Points and Armour Class. A 5th level
binder creating a demonic rod, for example, may
choose to take the Strength, Wisdom and Hit Points
of the glabrezu he has bound for the three slots he is
permitted.
The bearer of such a rod may call upon the demon's
power as a standard round action at any time,
potentially replacing all his ability, Hit Points and
Armour Class scores with those of the demon, for a
period often rounds. During this time, he will take
on the likeness of the demon as if he had been
possessed (see p25) though he will return to normal
after the ten rounds.
Meddling in such energies can be fatal, however.
Every time the demon is called upon in this way, the
bearer must pass a Possession check (see p25) as the
demon floods its power into his body. Failure will
result in the demon being free and uncontrolled,
possessing the bearer, with all the normal
consequences.
Demonic Staffs
To create demonic staffs, the binder will need
suitable materials and tools. The binder will also
need the Craft Staff feat.
The binder may place a number of the demon's
spell-like abilities into the staff, equal to the number
of Demonic Ability Slots listed on plO. Each of
these spells can then be cast from the staff in the
usual manner. If a staff ever reaches zero charges,
the demon bound within automatically returns to the
infernal planes. In this way, staffs are one of the
safer items a binder may create for they hold little
inherent danger for the user unless the
staff is kept for a long period of time.
Every demonic staff will
begin with 50 charges and
can be recharged in the same
way as magical staffs. The
Games Master is the final
arbitrator of what constitutes a
spell-like ability and thus what
may be used in demonic staffs.
39

BOUND DEMONS
Demonic Wands
To create demonic wands, the binder will need
suitable materials and tools. The binder will also
need the Craft Wand feat.
The binder may place only one of the demon's spell
like abilities into the staff, regardless of the number
of Demonic Ability Slots listed on plO. This spell
can then be cast from the wand in the usual manner.
If a wand ever reaches zero charges, the demon
bound within automatically returns to the infernal
planes. In this way, wands are also one of
the safer items a binder may create for
they hold little inherent danger for the
user unless the wand is kept for a long
period of time.
Every demonic wand will begin with 50
charges and can be recharged in the same
way as a magical wand. The Games
Master is the final arbitrator of what
constitutes a spell-like ability and thus
what may be used in demonic wands.
Demonic Wondrous Items
To create demonic wondrous items, the
binder will need suitable materials and
tools. The binder will also need the Craft
Wondrous Item feat.
Demonic Wondrous Items are the most
flexible of all bound items, though they
are also the most difficult and time
consuming to craft and thus the base cost
for them is doubled. The binder may
place a number of the demon's spell-like
abilities, special qualities, feats or skills
into the wondrous item, equal to half the
number of Demonic Ability Slots listed
on pi0, rounding down. These may then
be used by anyone carrying the demonic
wondrous item at any time as a standard
round action. The effects will last a
single round.
The Games Master is the final arbitrator
of what spell-like abilities, special
qualities, skills and feats may be used in
demonic wondrous items.
Other Uses for Bound Demons
There are many great tales in the worlds of fantasy
depicting truly incredible constructs of awesome
might that can challenge the power of the very gods
themselves. Huge battleships, with demonically
charged rams and weaponry, crewed entirely by
lesser demonic entities, or towering castles, with the
fabric of demonic energies bound directly into their
walls, making them virtually impregnable form the
foundations of tales told in many taverns. Such
constructions are beyond the scope of Demonology
- The Dark Road, but in future supplements we shall
return to such ideas, building on the rules presented
within this book and allowing players access to truly
world-shattering powers.
40

DEMONOLOGICAL FEATS
DEMONOLOGICAL
FEATS
Those who dabble in the demonological arts
often gain incredible abilities in the field,
being capable of performing actions defying
ordinary explanation. Some concentrate on
conducting summoning rituals with incredible
speed, yet without error. Others build a tremendous
capability for unleashing raw willpower at a
moment's notice and are able to literally cow
demons into submission.
Such feats come through hard work, methodical
study and being constantly exposed to the evil and
twisted creatures of the infernal planes. All the feats
covered here are considered special feats, available
only to binders, demonologists and the possessed.
Change Instruction (Special)
You can change and modify the instructions of a
demon in your service after the summoning ritual.
Prerequisites: None
Benefit: A controlled demon may be given new
instructions at any point in its service. This is a full-
round action and may only be attempted upon a
demon that you have personally summoned and
controlled yourself. To succeed, an Instruction
check must be made at DC 10 + the demon's
Challenge Rating. Your Charisma bonus is used as a
modifier to this roll.
If successful, you may give the demon a new
instruction following the usual rules. Note that once
any instruction is complete, the demon will
immediately return to the infernal planes. This feat
may not be used to extend the time the demon
remains in the material world.
Dismiss Demon (Special)
You may instantly dismiss any demon you
encounter, sending it back to the infernal planes.
Prerequisites: Cha 13+, Demon Lore 10+
Benefit: Any creature of the infernal planes may be
banished by the use of this feat. A Dismiss check at
DC 10 + the demon's Challenge Rating is made,
using your Charisma bonus as a modifier. This is a
full-round action and if successful will result in the
demon being instantly dismissed to the infernal
planes. Only one demon at a time may be targeted
in this way and this feat will not work against
demons who have possessed a host.
Permanent Control (Special)
You are able to establish such overriding magical
bonds over weaker demons that they remain
permanently under your control.
Prerequisites: Cha 15+
Benefit: After successfully controlling a demon
with a Challenge Rating 5 or less, you may choose
to permanently bring it under your will. From this
point on, the demon will be trapped in the material
world and will be compelled to follow any of your
instructions at any time. On the completion of any
instruction, it will return to your side rather than
disappearing back to the infernal planes. Only one
demon may be under permanent control at any one
time.
Special: A character may take this feat multiple
times, allowing him to have more than one demon
under permanent control.
Quicken Summoning (Special)
You demonstrate an incredible ability to perform
summoning rituals faster than normal whilst
maintaining a very low margin of error.
Prerequisites: Demon Lore 8+
Benefit: The time required to perform summoning
rituals is halved with no penalty. A slow ritual will
thus take the normal amount of time, whilst a
hurried ritual will quarter it.
Strength of Personality (Special)
You have an incredibly strong will and are able to
dominate many demons with your words.
Prerequisite: Iron Will
Benefit: You have a permanent +2 bonus to all
Control checks you are required to make.
41

MAGICAL ITEMS
MAGICAL
ITEMS
As with any study into arcane magic, it is
inevitable that demonologists will begin
to craft items and artefacts to aid them in
their pursuit of power. Dangers are ever present in
every field of demonology and thus practitioners
have a very real driving need to gain every
advantage they possibly can, as well as mitigate the
side effects of the art when events go awry. Many
work long and hard to craft such items and here the
binder has the advantage, though any following the
Dark Road may construct these items if they
manage to obtain the components and skills required
to do so. Other practitioners, consumed by their
studies, are unable to dedicate the time and
resources required to create such things and so are
reliant upon others, or forced to locate them within
the darker places of the world.
Amulet of Mental Fortitude
This silvered amulet is much sought after by
demonologists and others who walk the Dark Road
as it has the power to shield their minds from the
dangers of demonic possession. The wearer of the
Amulet of Mental Fortitude gains a +4 bonus to his
Will check when attempting to resist a demonic
possession.
Caster Level: 9th;
Prerequisites: Craft
Wondrous Item, must
have successfully resisted a
possession attempt in the
past; Market Price: 25,000
gP-
Demon's Bane
This dagger is inscribed with words of power
written in the infernal and other, far more base,
tongues. It is crafted specifically to be
the nemesis of any evil outsider
and is often kept by
demonologists who fear the
power of uncontrolled
demons. Against any evil
outsider, the Demon's Bane
functions as a +5 dagger. In
addition, upon a successful
hit, the outsider must make a
Will Save DC 20 or be
instantly dismissed back to its
home plane. Against any other s
creature, the Demon's Bane has *
no magical properties and is
treated as a normal dagger.
Caster Level: 5th;
Prerequisites: Craft Magic
Arms and Armour, Demon Lore rank 6+; Market
Price: 25,000 gp.
Mask of Disguise
This soft black leather mask is completely plain and
featureless, fully covering the face of any who wear
it. Once donned the Mask of Disguise obscures any
disfigurement previously suffered by the wearer,
whatever the source, returning him to his original
form. It will not, however, obscure any
disfigurement inflicted after the mask has been
donned and spells
such as True Seeing
will reveal the
wearer in his
disfigured form.
Whilst worn, the
mask is completely
invisible though its user will always be able to sense
its presence. It cannot be removed by any means
short of a wish until the death of the user,
whereupon it becomes visible once more and the
42

MAGICAL ITEMS
disfigurement is revealed. No other magical mask
may be worn at the same time as a Mask of
Disguise.
Caster Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Wondrous
Item, Polymorph any Object; Market Price:
30,000 gp.
Ring of Demonic Control
This is a plain iron ring adorned with but a single
gem, the type of which defines the demonic family
this item has power over. The Ring of Demonic
Control Tanar'ri, for example, has a sapphire whilst
those that are forged to control the Baatezu have a
ruby. Others exist for the lesser demonic families,
though they are far less common. When worn, this
ring adds a +1 bonus to all Control checks used
against any demon of the respective family.
Caster Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Forge Ring,
Demon Lore rank 4+; Market Price: 10,000 gp.
Ring of Demonic Obedience
This ring of cold silver with a single mounted gem
is very similar to the Ring of Demonic Control but is
far more potent. Whilst worn, this ring grants a +2
bonus to all Control checks taken against demons of
the family specified by the gem. This effect may
not be combined with any Ring of Demonic Control.
Caster Level: 12th; Prerequisites: Forge Ring,
Demon Lore rank 8+; Market Price: 25,000 gp.
Ring of the Balor
The secrets of the construction of these six insanely
powerful rings were lost when their creator, Alcador
the Mad, attempted to bind both a balor and a pit
fiend into the same ring and was savagely torn apart
in the ensuing carnage. Once per week, the wearer
may use this ring to summon a balor as a standard
round action.
The
summoning
works
automatically
but the balor
will be
uncontrolled. A
demonologist may
attempt to control the
balor as normal and may even perform a summoning
ritual beforehand if he has the required knowledge,
in order to get as many bonuses as he can to the
Control check. Failure or inability to control the
balor will result in the demon attacking the user,
destroying the ring and then returning to the infernal
planes. Unlike similar rings created by binders, the
balor bound inside this artifact has no chance of
breaking free and thus no Binding check is ever
required.
Minor Artifact
Rod of Summoning
This ornate and finely crafted rod has the power to
sharpen a summoner's concentration and magically
alter preparations during a summoning ritual to
correct mistakes. The user gains a +1 bonus to all
Summoning checks whilst the rod is in his
possession.
Caster Level: 9th; Prerequisites: Craft Rod; Market
Price: 15,000 gp.
Soul Gem
This magically charged yellow diamond, glowing
with its own inner light, will automatically activate
if it is placed on the chest of a living creature which
is unconscious and has been reduced to negative hit
points. The creature's soul (if present) will be
trapped within the gem. A demonologist may use
such gems with trapped souls as a soul sacrifice as
described on p30. The Soul Gem may only hold one
soul at any one time and will shatter when the soul
has been sacrificed in this way. A wish spell may be
used to free the soul before this occurs.
Caster Level: 15th; Prerequisites: Craft Wondrous
Item, Magic Jar, yellow diamond (5,000 gp);
Market Price: 50,000 gp.
43

HELP FOR GAMES MASTERS
HELP FOR
GAMES
MASTERS
So, you have read through Demonology - The
Dark Road and no doubt have vivid images of
your players running around your wonderfully
crafted campaign world, summoning balors and
raising all kinds of hell. Literally. There are two
phrases you should keep in mind.
Do Not Panic!
You are in complete control!
The entire practice of demonology has been based
on two limiting factors. First of all, you will soon
find that players rapidly catch on to how dangerous
this form of magic can be to their characters and
will thus moderate their own behaviour somewhat.
Secondly, they are utterly dependant on you
sprinkling demonic texts and tomes throughout the
campaign in order to summon anything - there is
absolutely no way they can call upon a demon you
consider unbalancing to your games. As far as non-
player characters are concerned, the sky is the limit
and you can craft demonological villains to severely
test the mettle of the strongest of parties. There are,
however, many other factors to consider when
introducing demonology into a campaign in order to
make it a fuller and richer experience for all
concerned, especially if one or more of your players
is intent on walking the Dark Road.
CHARACTERS IN
DEMONOLOGY
The first thing to look at is the process of a player
character becoming a demonologist in the first
place. Note here that no one can simply become a
binder or possessed as they have stringent
requirements that depend on the demonologist class
being taken first - in effect they are both prestige
classes of a prestige class. Any wizard, however,
can become a demonologist after reaching second
level.
To start any prestige class requires a trigger, be it a
mentor or seminal event in a character's life.
Prestige classes are something many players aspire
for their characters to become and it should never be
an easy goal to achieve. In its own way, the gaining |
of a prestige class is a reward perhaps as great as the
acquisition of gold and magical items. Becoming a
demonologist can be a little problematic as we
would never recommend providing a mentor to
advise and guide a character. Demonology should
be both mysterious and a little frightening, two
things that all but disappear if an older and wiser
demonologist is present. Allow a character to find
ancient books of forbidden teachings within the lair
of an evil wizard or permit him to find such
knowledge in the darker recesses of some far off
library - make the player work for a chance to
become a demonologist, as this is something he will
have to get used to when uncovering all the
resources he needs for summoning rituals. You can
rule that such writings contain all the basic
knowledge a wizard needs to actually become a
demonologist, as well as including a summoning
ritual or two for weaker demons. Kick the player
off with summoning the likes of lemures, dretch and
imps, something of that ilk. All that will remain is
for you to hide your knowing smile when the player
suddenly realises that summoning a demon is one
thing but controlling it quite another.
CONSIDERATIONS OF I
ALIGNMENT
More than one of our playtesters showed surprise
that any alignment was permitted for demonologists.
Surely all demonologists are evil or, at least, not
good? Well, maybe not. We believe it is perfectly
reasonable for a wizard to be good when he starts
studying demonology. After all, being good does
not stop someone from believing that the ends can
justify the means. However, all the mechanics of
demonology are skewed in that to reach the very
highest levels of ability, it is almost inevitable that
evil acts must be performed. This is a critical factor
in demonology and is something that you, as the
Games Master, must keep a very close eye on.
Watch your players carefully and keep their
alignment in mind at all times. You may find
yourself amazed at what a previously noble and
good character is prepared to do in order to summon
more powerful demons. Never actually stop a
character from doing any of these things. Instead,
instruct him to change his alignment whenever you
44

HELP FOR GAMES MASTERS
feel he crosses the line too far - this represents the
slow slide into corruption that marks demonology
for the insidious craft that it is. No rule could be
written to represent this without making it an
unwieldy sledgehammer and so we firmly believe it
is best left in your capable hands. A group of
dedicated role-players may well enjoy the slow path
into tragedy and we recommend you play this for all
it is worth. Approached from the right direction,
demonologists can be amongst the most memorable
characters of all, however they finally end.
There are two things that mark this shift from good
alignments to neutral and then to evil, and it is
worth exploring the reasons why players so often
fall into the demonological trap. First off,
summoning demons is relatively easy and has few
consequences, but controlling them is that much
harder and has potentially lethal results. Players
will want to succeed in the latter in order to
accomplish tasks set before them. The most
powerful demons we have deliberately made
virtually impossible to control unless players start
taking advantage of some of the bonuses on offer to
them. And the greatest bonus potentially
available? Soul sacrifices. It may take a little
while before players reach that stage
with their characters but if they
truly wish to summon and
control the likes of a
balor or pit fiend, then
they will have to at least
consider it.
Secondly, there are ever
present dangers in
demonology. An
uncontrolled demon will
either attempt to slay or
possess the foolish
mortal who summoned
it. Players will also
want to succeed in the rituals on the basis of sheer
survival, as few demonologists are able to go toe-to-
toe with the demons they are apt to summon, once
again leading to them taking the most extraordinary
means.
There is one last point to look at here - players
performing blood sacrifices, as described on page
23. Many players of good or neutral alignment
often seem to consider this an easy route for a bonus
in their Control checks. After all, it is easy to
imagine a wizard, consumed with his research,
paying little heed to the plight of some rat or stray
dog and, of course, it is all for the greater good. But
let us think about this for a moment. This wizard is
going to take a living creature, put a knife through
its heart and use its life energy to summon a vile and
twisted creature from the infernal planes. From here
it may only be a short step to using the likes of ores
and kobolds for soul sacrifices. This is an evil act,
surely? Players may protest, offering up examples
of modern day scientists in their laboratories and
you may have a tendency to agree with them. We
are not here to judge any other gamers and it is,
ultimately, up to the individual conscience of the
Games Master. For my own part, such an action
may well suit a character of neutral alignment, but is
it truly an act of good? Hmm. . .
RESEARCH AND STUDY
As far as being a Games Master goes, this is one of
the most important parts of demonology. In order to
summon any demon, players must first uncover the
required texts detailing the appropriate ritual - it is
not an automatic gift as they rise in level. How they
come about such resources of
information is completely up to
you, though we hardly need
mention the opportunity of
complete scenarios based
around rumours of an
ancient tome of forbidden
lore buried in some lost
dungeon at the edge of
the world. You may find
characters begin to visit
every library in the towns
.nd cities they journey to,
whilst enterprising
players may enlist the
continued aid of
merchants and traders, though they had better be
trustworthy!
What is of import to you is the types of demon they
are able to summon and this is governed purely by
your placing such information within your
campaign. Because there is no strict progression of
what a demonologist may summon determined by
his class level (only his ability to control), two
schools of thought arise. The first is to never, ever
let a character summon a demon that will over
balance the scenarios you have planned - this has
the potential to ruin the game for everyone.
However, it will place more responsibility on the
45

HELP FOR GAMES MASTERS
player if you allow him the chance to summon a
demon that is just a little out of his reach. A major
facet of demonology (and a great source of fun for
yourself) is that a player is constantly confronted by
the pressure of power versus risk. By giving a
character the knowledge to summon a demon that
the player knows he can barely control and will
likely slay him if he fails, you are forcing him to
think and consider his actions very carefully. And
that, surely, is what the game is all about. At the
end of the day, he is only going to be able to control
a powerful demon for a single hour at best. With the
summoning time required, players are going to have
to come up with viable plans on how to actually use
the demon once it has been summoned. On a
practical level, demonology rarely alters scenarios
in a radical way.
As a rough rule of thumb, the line of balance runs at
around the demonologist's character level being
equal to the Challenge Rating of the demons he is
able to summon on a regular basis. However, at
least consider what a demon is capable of and what
it can do to finely crafted scenarios. If a player can
inadvertently do something to stuff up your planned
gaming session, then you can be pretty much sure he
will do it. This has nothing to do with demonology
itself. It is a fact of role-playing.
As a last word, demonologists still progress with
their spells as if they were normal
wizards. However, if a
practitioner is concentrating on
locating demonic texts rather than
new magic, his spellbook is going
to be rather more empty than
another wizard of the same level.
We would strongly suggest that
once the demonologist class has been
taken, you severely restrict the
character's access to spells. Allow him to
fill out available spell slots but ensure he
does not have the huge range arcane
wizards soon build up.
SUMMONING AND
CONTROLLING
Though the mechanics governing the
summoning and control of demons are of
paramount importance to a player, there is
actually little a Games Master should worry
46

HELP FOR GAMES MASTERS
Failed Control Checks
Once a Control check has been failed, the demonologist is likely to be in a great deal of trouble. He is
probably not too good in close combat whilst many demons are able to give even high level fighters a serious
challenge.
The demon, starting within the pentagram, is considered to be within five feet of the summoning demonologist.
Initiative is rolled for normally and combat begins.
It is important to consider the Intelligence of the demon when it becomes uncontrolled. A demon with a low
score is likely to simply wade in, trying to destroy the demonologist in the shortest time possible. More wily
creatures will search for weaknesses as they fight, not attempting ploys they believe the demonologist is
immune to, instead using the special qualities or attacks that will cause the maximum amount of damage.
Possession will only be used if the demon has a better than even chance of overpowering the summoner - after
all, he has exerted his will in trying to control the demon and so it will know just how strong his mental forces
are. If the battle goes against the demon, it will flee back to the infernal planes to nurture its hatred. The
penalties a demon suffers from the loss of its physical form in the material world are too severe for it to ignore.
Last, if other characters are present, attacks will be distributed to those that pose the greatest physical threat.
The goal, however, is the destruction of the demonologist and so the demon will seek to accomplish this before
being forced back to the infernal planes, either by fleeing or having its physical form slain.
about here. Wise players will pace themselves over
which demons they summon whilst foolish ones will
be re-rolling wizard characters every couple of
gaming sessions. This is simple, and it is fair.
We would always recommend a Games Master gives
his players as much information as possible
regarding modifiers and their actual chances to
succeed in any given summoning ritual. Don't be
shy about telling players the Challenge Rating of
demons they call, or its special abilities. After all,
the character will have spent a great deal of time in
research before attempting the summoning and you
can bet your bottom gold piece they will be
concentrating on this information. It will also serve
to let a player know just what risks he is taking, a
vital factor in demonology. That is not to say you
can't keep a player off-guard, of course. There is
absolutely no reason in the world to tell him that the
greater name he is relying upon for success is
actually wrong until after the Control check has
been made...
One concern to many Games Masters will be an
uncontrolled demon. Demonologist characters are
unlikely to be good fighters, whereas many demons
excel in close combat and having other members of
the party present is only going to make matters
worse because of the distraction rule. Our advice is
to beat the character to within an inch of his life.
Possess him, energy drain him if the demon has the
ability or allow him to escape with his hit points in
single figures. No one likes to see a favoured
character slain but it is vital that you get across just
how dangerous demonology is when things go
wrong. On the other hand, if a character is
constantly summoning a demon that is a little
beyond his league, don't feel any remorse in
finishing him off. Foolishness should always be
punished in role-playing. At the instant a Control
check is failed, roll the initiative dice and let battle
commence.
On this note, you may soon become amazed at what
players will try in order to mitigate the
consequences of an uncontrolled demon or simply to
escape its reach. Being all too aware that players
will also read this section, we won't be covering the
more imaginative ideas we have come across as it is
much more fun to find them out for yourself. Such
cleverness, though, should always be rewarded. If
they manage to escape the wrath of a demon one
day, it will no doubt get a chance of revenge later on
in the campaign. At higher levels, you may well
discover your players gain the power to completely
nullify the effects some weaker demons becoming
uncontrolled to the point where they are harmless.
Now, whilst demonology should be unpredictable
and always cause a player some trepidation when he
picks up the dice for a Control check, there really is
no reason to worry about, say, a 7th level character
being all but immune to the attacks of a dretch or
imp. He has probably earnt the concession by that
time anyway.
47

HELP FOR GAMES MASTERS
OF INSTRUCTION AND
WILL
The first draft of this book had all sorts of rules
based around what a character could and could not
instruct a demon to do and how they were to phrase
their orders. These were soon whittled down to the
base nine word instruction now in place. There was
simply no need to over-complicate what is, at its
core, a very simple and flowing set of rules.
However, there are three caveats.
First of all is the notion that a demon will pervert
and twist any instruction to its own evil ends. If a
player makes a very foolish or open request, twist
away to punish his complacency but, in the main,
we suggest giving the player the benefit of the
doubt. The practice of demonology carries enough
risk and danger without all of a player's efforts
coming to nothing because of one poorly thought
word. If you need any sort of rational explanation,
you can assume the powerful magical bonds a
demonologist places on the creature are sufficient to
carry his actual intent. Some Games Masters may
prefer to push the literal line for instructions and this
is cool with us. It is, after all, your game!
The second concerns the word
'and.' Now, we consider the
word 'and' to mark the
end of one
instruction
and the
beginning of
another. 'Kill
those ores and
goblins,' for
example. That is
one instruction to
kill the ores and
another to kill the
goblins. Unless the
player has specified he is
taking checks for
additional instructions, the
demon will simply obey the
first, killing the ores and
leaving the goblins in peace.
You may rule that such
interpretations are unnecessary in
your campaign but we find it keeps
players on their toes without going
overboard.
Last of all, a demon can never, ever be compelled by
a summoner to use its ability to summon other
demons or reveal it's own true name, for the reasons
described on page 52. Even if a practitioner can
exert suitable mental force and threat, the other
demons will simply not respond to a call for aid
issued at the behest of a mere mortal and revealing
it's own true name is the demonic equivalent of
committing suicide.
NAMED DEMONS
All named demons are individuals and this is
something you must stress. If a character learns the
summoning ritual for Talla'rona the erinyes, then he
may summon her and her alone. It simply will not
work for Nana'tta the erinyes (or whomever).
You can vary named demons of the same species in
two principle ways. First, change the summoning
components listed on pages 53-60, making each
named demon require something a little different
from the last. The second is to use the advancement
rules in the Monster Manual, making them even
more powerful and difficult to control. As a rule of
thumb, increase the Challenge Rating of the demon
by one for every hit dice added.
is also possible to vary the personality and
mannerisms of named demons but this is
far more difficult. Demonologists rarely
start relationships with the demons
they summon beyond issuing simple
nine word instructions!
POSSESSION
Possession is a hideous thing
to happen to any character
primarily because of the
debilitating and permanent
effects it leaves behind.
This is, incidentally, one
way you can remind a
player just how dangerous
demonology can be when
they attempt to move too fast
down the Dark Road.
One effect that can often be
overlooked is that of the
physical effects possession
leaves. The mortal will
actually become part demon
48

HELP FOR GAMES MASTERS
during the possession and his body will warp and
change in response. You may take great delight in
describing every little change that takes place.
As a rough guide, assume a fifty-fifty mixture of
mortal and demon in outward appearance. A human
possessed by a balor, gods help him, will grow to
perhaps nine feet tall, develop wings and horns, his
muscles will bulge and his skin take on a distinctive
reddish tinge. Remember, this change is permanent
and is likely to alter a character's
perception of the world even after he
regains full control of his body. Simply
walking into a town or city may no
longer be an option. Once possessed
by a succubus or an erinyes, one
may be able to pass themselves off
as planetouched. One who has
suffered the attentions of a
bebilith will not. Depending
on how your campaign is
structured, this is
potentially the greatest
penalty for having
suffered possession.
EVIL
OUTSIDERS
The rules within this
supplement concentrate
primarily on summoning
demons and devils, as
described in the Monster
Manual. However, we have
also made provision for any evil
outsider to be summoned in
exactly the same way, nightmares
and hell hounds being the two
examples listed on pages 54 and
55.
Something of a quandary is
posed here though. It is
very easy to imagine a
demonologist
summoning nightmares
and hell hounds
because they are so
demonic in nature.
But what about such
creatures as night
hags? Whilst
common sense may say that by summoning one, you
should be able to summon the other, it just feels
wrong to us. However, as Games Master, it is your
own personal mandate what to include and what to
ignore when seeding your campaign world with the
demonic texts your players require for summoning
rituals and thus we leave it in your hands to decide.
Allowing the summoning of any evil outsider will
certainly give your players a vast range of creatures
to call upon, though some may seem a little strange
when used in conjunction with these rules. . .
49

OTHER RACES
OTHER RACES
The practice of demonology is by no means
limited to those some might arrogantly call
the civilised races. Whilst it is true humans
do tend to show the greatest aptitude for walking the
Dark Road, there are always others, hidden in the
loneliest parts of the world, for whom the lure of
promised power is too great to ignore. Demonology
requires patience, research, a talent for arcane
wizardry and access to many exotic materials which,
perversely, makes its practice far easier to
accomplish when performed in civilised realms. At
the same time, however, the terrible effects and
perceived evil of the art often forces the practitioner
far away from town and city. The demonologists of
other races may face less opposition to their
following of the Dark Road but are likely
to find the necessary component and
intellectual materials far more difficult
to locate, thus limiting their overall
skill in the art. As always,
however, there exceptions.
DROW
Perhaps the most renowned
practitioners of all are the
dreaded drow and many in lay
communities often incorrectly
assume that every spellcaster
amongst the dark elves adopts
demonology as a course of ultimate
power. The society of drow though, does
lend itself greatly to the practice and
propagation of demonology for those who stumble
upon tomes of lore forbidden by the surface
dwelling races. Their immense underground cities
can be just as sophisticated as any that exist under
the sun and due to the constant rivalry between
house, family and every individual drow, darker arts
are not only more common but also widely accepted
for the greater power they can grant a practitioner.
To a drow, power is everything.
In the matriarchal society of the drow, few females
adopt the learning of arcane magic, instead tending
to concentrate on the path of the cleric, for the
priesthood dominates all within their cities. A small
number of the male drow, however, are permitted to
study arcane magic by the ruling females of their
house, particularly if they show little aptitude for the
sword and bow. In any event, a house always looks
to swing the odds in its favour when it wars upon
another and arcane wizardry is but one tool it may
employ. For the male concerned, demonology, for
all its inherent risks, contains the possibility of
allowing him to compete directly, on a political
level, with any female of his house. In a society that
values power beyond all else, the Dark Road can be
an irresistible lure.
DUERGAR
Also dwelling far below the races on the surface of
the world, the duergar produce very few arcane
wizards at all for it is not a field in which any show
a great amount of aptitude. With many being black
and evil to the core though, those that do make a
study of the arcane magicks tend to naturally
gravitate towards the darker arts of demonology and
necromancy.
Of particular interest to the duergar
is the way of the binder, for they
share the passion of fashioning
the mighty weapons and
armour of their lighter
dwarven kindred but have
few laws on the source of
power used. The binder of
duergar society, on first
appearance, can easily be
mistaken for a simple smith as
he works and toils upon metals to
be imbued with awesome might.
Many adventuring parties value the
weaponry and armour they claim in
battle against this evil race of dwarves,
though few truly understand the origins of such
magical tools. Their folly is all too often fatally
exposed as demons that have been bound for dozens
of years are finally released into the material world.
HAGS
Few hags demonstrate the will or the talent to
advance into arcane wizardry, instead preferring to
rely on their own innate spell-like abilities. Most,
however, possess at least the wit required for study,
particularly those of the annis or green hag species.
Whilst most exist purely to survive and to inflict
pain and suffering upon others, some are motivated
by greater ambition and purpose. Such hags may
draw together with others of their kind to form a
covey.
50

OTHER RACES
Hags within a covey gain far greater powers as each
magnifies and strengthens the others. When such a
gathering is capable of arcane wizardry, it takes only
exposure to a single tome of demonic lore to set
them upon the Dark Road. Their ogre and giant
servants are sent forth into the world to gather lore
and capture ever greater numbers of unwitting
sentients to be used in the soul sacrifices such hags
regularly employ to boost their control capabilities,
as well as for their own sadistic enjoyment. Coveys
of this nature can be especially dangerous to the
unwary, for as well as using soul sacrifices as an
almost standard practice, they will also join their
powers to form group summonings, potentially
making the hags far more potent in the practice than
any demonologist of similar skill.
ORCS AND GOBLINOIDS
On occasion, stories and myths arise from the
wildlands, telling of some mighty goblin or ore who
is able to summon the foulest of demons with which
to smite his enemies. Such tales are easy to dismiss,
for perhaps only one in every ten thousand shows
the ability to wield arcane magic and even fewer
will go on to study demonology. Added to this,
goblinoids and ores rarely have the patience or
discipline required by any arcane art. In the case of
simple wizardry, this tends to mean they never
progress very far, being easily overtaken in skill by
mere adepts. In the case of demonology, such
inattention to detail will usually cause their downfall
and death long before they are capable of menacing
the outside world.
TlEFLINGS
The planetouched tieflings, those who can trace
their bloodline back to a mating between mortal and
demon, are noted for being callous, evil and twisted
by their very nature. Though few have the same
opportunities to study arcane wizardry as those of
other races, they can display a strange affinity for
wielding magic in general and demonology in
particular. It is easy to draw conclusions from a
tiefling's origins and the ease with which they can
summon and control the demons they call
upon but they are also able to adapt to the
practice on a far more pragmatic level.
Being outcasts from the very start, they
adjust well into the solitary lifestyle of the
typical demonologist and from there are
eminently willing to bring their full
power to bear against a world that has
always rejected them for no other reason than who
they are.
YUAN-TI
The yuan-ti revere evil in its purest form and thus
have no difficulty with incorporating such practices
as demonology into their everyday life. Generally,
only abominations are permitted to pursue the art
though some few halfbloods may also display the
talent if they gain sufficient favour with their lords
and masters.
Though the entire structure of yuan-ti society is
based upon ritual sacrifice, a practitioner of this race
always runs the risk of falling foul of the priesthood.
To the yuan-ti, sacrifices of any nature are the
ultimate offering they may present to their dark gods
and, through this, gain divine favour. To use a soul
sacrifice in the pursuit of demonology may well
guarantee the service of many demons but to the
priesthood of the yuan-ti, this trivialises their entire
faith and is seen as wasteful. What power can a
demon grant that their mighty gods cannot? Unless
a yuan-ti demonologist has sufficient political power
within the settlement, it is unlikely to reach the
pinnacle of demonological knowledge as it is
forever denied access to the potential sacrifices that
could serve it so well. Halfbloods will never attain
this measure of rank and even abominations that try
will always be at odds
with the pervasive
priesthood.
51

DEMONIC ENTITIES
DEMONIC
ENTITIES
Throughout this book we have studied, in
some depth, those who summon demons and
the methods they employ to increase their
chances of success in what is, ultimately, an
extremely dangerous field of arcane magic. In this
chapter, we take a look at the creatures of the
infernal planes themselves. Demons are truly the
most evil and malevolent beings any mortal will
discover, able and willing to crush hope and
innocence with no more thought than a man may
swat a fly. They are structured into immense
families, though there is little loyalty within them.
Always, demons of all types are driven by the need
to acquire both souls and power, either through
battle, subterfuge or through the patronage of a yet
greater demon. This is the nature of the beings
demonologists regularly come into contact with.
OF SOULS AND BURNING
Demons of all families and creeds watch carefully
for souls they may harvest from the mortals of the
material worlds. Some are given freely to them,
others must be stolen or outwitted whilst yet more
are condemned to be sent to the infernal planes by
the greater gods of other, more distant planes of
existence. A soul trapped in the infernal planes is
one subjected to eternal agony by the cruellest
intentions of the demons that hold it.
The practice of soul harvesting goes far beyond a
wish to cause an immense amount of pain for
absolute eternity, however. Souls are used as
bargaining chips between demons, for one with
more souls in his possession is literally more
powerful than any other. Powerful beings can
transform tortured souls into lesser demons, such as
the lemure or dretch. A lesser demon who succeeds
in gathering a great many souls for his lord may
gain sufficient notice to be granted a more powerful
form and favours between demons of similar rank
are almost always paid for with slaves as few are
willing to cede actual territory within the infernal
planes to a potential rival.
To a mortal, this can often appear to be a crude form
of currency, or even barter, but the possession of
souls drives deep into the heart of what it is to
actually be a demon. One with an excess amount of
souls can accomplish almost anything within the
infernal planes, through having a greater source of
power and being able to buy the services of any
other demon. One with few souls is ripe for
destruction by its enemies.
The one possibility a demonologist may care to
keep in mind is that souls are often traded between
demons, as shown above. A practitioner may feel
himself fairly comfortable in gaining soul servitude
to a succubus, but if his soul starts being traded
between the higher ranks of demons, he may
unwittingly find himself bound to a balor, the
cruellest and mightiest of the Tana'ri.
DEMONIC FAMILIES
The infernal planes are divided into many separate
regions, each ruled by a member of the great
demonic royalty. Each member of this powerful
ruling elite will also be at the head of one or more
demonic families, with each family having
potentially millions or even billions of demons in its
service. The greatest of these families, the Tanar'ri
and the Baatezu are spread throughout the infernal
planes, dominating hellish locales and forming
immense power blocks that few can challenge
directly. However, demonic families are rarely
united themselves and rivalries between the greater
demons of each can paralyse entire regions at times
as they fight one another. Such wars rarely last
long, in demonic terms at least but they are
relatively common. This allows the more minor
families, such as the Tzaretch, detailed on our web
site, to exist without being instantly crushed by the
huge numbers of Tanar'ri that oppose them. In
practice, families such as the Tzaretch often collude
and conspire with differing factions of the Tana'ri
and gain power, souls and standing through the
patronage of the greater family.
This complex interweaving of politics, threats,
promises and subversions characterises the infernal
planes perfectly. Every demon, high and low, is
trapped in a web of promises, debts and war. When
confronted with danger, most demons can call upon
others it has aided in the past for protection but in
doing so immediately invites a promise that must be
repaid - this is why demons can never be compelled
to summon demonic allies at the behest of a mortal
summoner. In doing so they alter the very fabric of
their network of alliances and would likely prefer to
be slain on the material world and suffer weakness
52

DEMONIC ENTITIES
in the infernal planes than comply. In any case,
other demons would be highly unlikely to respond
to such a call made at the whim of a mortal.
Wars amongst demons and families are to be feared
by the inhabitants of the infernal planes. Many
mortals make the mistake of assuming that once
slain on the material world, a demon is no more.
This is, unfortunately, completely untrue for a
demon may only be permanently slain when in its
home region of the infernal planes - thus wars
between demonic factions hold the highest
consequences for the participants, much as they do
for mortals. To beings immortal in nature, though,
the thought of an absolute death can be terrifying.
Demons tend to be more complacent in the material
world, though death and banishment to the infernal
planes still carries a penalty that must be addressed.
A demon sent back to its home region in this way is
greatly weakened and may fall to the non-existent
mercy of its enemies. If it was sent back whilst in
the service of a more powerful demon, it may also
be directly punished, stripped of power and possibly
even transformed into a lesser demonic form.
RITUAL COMPONENTS
Every summoning ritual, from the basic rite required
to call a lemure, to the mighty powers that must be
harnessed to force a pit fiend into submission,
necessitates the use of two main components. First
is the material the pentagram itself is constructed of.
Contrary to the opinions of the layperson,
pentagrams are not simply scratched into the ground
but rather are made of fine powders of varying
materials, carefully placed by the demonologist into
ancient patterns of great power. The sole
purpose of the pentagram is to provide a
channel for the energies the demonologist
is invoking, guiding them through the
structure of the patterns and runes to
the summoning focus in the centre,
where the demon will finally appear,
if all goes well. This summoning
focus is the second necessary
component of the ritual and is the
point where all the arcane energies
are channelled to open a door
between the material world and the
infernal planes. Both the
materials used in the pentagram
and in the summoning focus are
utterly consumed by each
summoning attempt, whether or
not it is successful. If either the pentagram or
summoning focus components are not present, then
the summoning ritual may not be attempted.
In addition, there are sometimes other conditions
that must be fulfilled when summoning a demon,
particularly when named demons are concerned.
One might be forced to perform the summoning
ritual within a graveyard, for instance, or during a
full moon. Not all demons require such conditions
be fulfilled but the demonologist is well advised to
do his research well and discover such facts before
attempting an expensive and potentially dangerous
summoning ritual.
A list is given below of all the demons found within
the Monster Manual, along with what they are
capable of and the components required for their
summoning ritual. However, the Games Master
need not assume this list is complete - substitute
materials may be possible for certain demons in
some campaign worlds and named demons are
likely to have wildly different components from
others of the same demonic species. In these cases,
the Games Master is welcome to use the
components listed here as a guide only to his own,
very different, named demons. Also, several
components are not listed as having a gold piece
value - these are items generally too rare to buy in
even major towns and cities and the demonologist
may well be forced to locate them for himself. The
Games Master is encouraged to set his own market
price if he deems it fit that his players should be
able to buy them in his own campaign world.
The demons below are organised into their level of
Challenge Rating with the weakest, and easiest to
summon, first. This is by no means a complete
listing, however, for all the different species of
demon are as numberless as all the grains of sand
on all the beaches of the world. The Games
Master is encouraged to come up with his own
pentagram and summoning focus components for
the demons he creates and those in other
published supplements.
Lemure
These creatures are quite insane and it is
often said this is the form the dead take
when they travel to the infernal planes.
Lemures are misshapen piles of flesh,
vaguely humanoid in form. They are
incapable of speech but can easily be
compelled to obey most instructions from a
53

DEMONIC ENTITIES
dedicated demonologist, who tend to use them as
guards, albeit fairly weak ones.
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Lead powder (50 gp)
Summoning Focus: Small gem (200 gp)
Imp
Imps are fairly common
creatures on the infernal
planes and it is often said
they were created simply to
spread evil throughout the
material worlds by working
through malevolent wizards
and sorcerers. It is indeed
true that many
demonologists able to bind
demons on a permanent
basis often choose imps as
permanent companions,
using them as spies and
advisors. Though able to
assume the form of several different
creatures, an imp normally appears as a two foot tall
devilish-looking humanoid with leathery batwings,
barbed tail and wickedly sharp teeth and horns.
Demonic Family: None
Pentagram Component: Iron Powder (100 gp)
Summoning Focus: Silver bound scroll (300 gp)
Dretch
These are the wicked rank and file troops of the
Tanar'ri demons. Only semi-intelligent, they rend
their opponents with tooth and claw. For the
demonologist, they are often
considered to be very
similar in
application and
use as the
lemure, though a
little more
capable.
Whereas a single
lemure may be
defeated by a
warrior of
mediocre
skill, a
dretch has
the
potential to
take on
several warriors at a time without being slain and
sent back to the infernal planes.
Demonic Family: Tanar'ri
Pentagram Component: Iron powder (100 gp)
Summoning Focus:
Small gem (300 gp)
Quasit
Also often
found in the
company of
demonologists
as permanently
bound demons,
the primary
goal of any
quasit is to extol
his master to greater
acts of evil. Thus,
whilst they may be a
useful source of information on matters
demonological, a practitioner must always be aware
of how far his quasit is propelling him down the
Dark Road. Quasits detest imps and the two will
always attempt to attack each other if they are able,
though are most likely to employ subtle but lethal
tricks, rather than direct physical assaults.
Demonic Family: None
Pentagram Component: Steel powder (150 gp)
Summoning Focus: Skin scroll
Hell Hound
As large, aggressive, fire-breathing dogs come
straight from the infernal planes, hell hounds are
terrifying to behold and many demonologists
summon them either as guards or hunters. In either
role they are likely to strike fear into those they are
instructed to attack.
54

DEMONIC ENTITIES
Demonic Family: None
Pentagram Component: Copper powder (200 gp)
Summoning Focus: Silver collar (300 gp)
Nightmare
These creatures are much renowned in both legend
and wild adventurer tale and they certainly have an
evocative appearance. Nightmares take the
appearance of giant black horses, wreathed in flame
and eminently willing to slay and destroy any near
them. Demonologists may, on occasion, use such
creatures as beats of burden, but are more typically
interested in summoning nightmares to use as
demonic steeds able to carry them huge distances far
faster than any mundane horse.
Demonic Family: None
Pentagram Component: Copper powder (200 gp)
Summoning Focus: Silver horse shoe (800 gp)
Osyluth
Osyluths are feared
even by other
demons, particularly
those of the
Baatezu family.
They serve the
lords of the
infernal planes,
watching
other
Baatezu
and
reporting on
their
activities.
For the
demonologist,
osyluths can
provide an
invaluable
source of
information on
other Baatezu,
though they are
unlikely to have
anything as notable as
the true name of a demon. On the other hand, they
can readily provide the practitioner with details on
summoning rituals, if his own research is
incomplete or suspect.
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Silver powder (500 gp)
Summoning Focus: Large quartz overlaid with fine
silver wire (1,000 gp)
Kyton
The chain-shrouded kytons are powerful combatants
and it is for this reason many demonologists are
interested in gaining their service. By preparing an
area for them to guard with many lengths of chain,
the practitioner is effectively able to stall or halt any
advancing enemy with a single kyton as it utilises its
ability to control the chains and attack intruders.
Demonic Family: None
Pentagram Component: Powdered masterwork
chains (650 gp)
Summoning Focus: Masterwork spiked chain
inlaid with silver (1,000 gp)
Special: Summoning
ritual must be
conducted
underground
55

DEMONIC ENTITIES
Hellcat
Hellcats are often employed by demonologists
wishing to track down an enemy
who may be too powerful
for the lesser hell
hounds to effectively
deal with. They
are superior in
many respects
and
intelligent
enough to
approach a
target through
tactically-adept
ambush rather than
merely making a
costly direct assault.
Demonic Family:
None
Pentagram Component:
Powdered lion bones
Summoning Focus:
Complete lion mane
Barbazu
Where powerful demons may raise hordes of
lemures to destroy their enemies within the infernal
planes, it is the barbazu that are given the task of
leading them,
spearheading attacks
as vicious shock
troops. A single
barbazu is
capable of giving
even a
party of
accomplished
'adventurers a
severe beating and as
they are unlikely to be able to supply a
demonologist with much information on other
Baatezu, they are typically used purely for their
combat abilities, which are considerable. A barbazu
unleashed upon an enemy is usually enough to
guarantee his destruction.
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Silver powder (500 gp)
Summoning Focus: Masterwork silver-tipped
glaive (1,000 gp)
Erinyes
Like their Tanar'ri
counterpart, the
succubus, an erinyes is
one of the demonic
entities all
demonologists strive
to uncover
summoning rituals to.
The reasons for this
are varied but it is
often said that no
practitioner can
consider himself a
true demonologist
until he has called
upon either an
erinyes or succubus.
Most are used either
as information
sources on
demonological
matters or to cause
the temptation and
downfall of an
enemy, which they excel at. Less dedicated
practitioners may well summon such creatures
simply as tools of comfort to distract from lonely
nights of intense research.
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Powdered female elven
hair
Summoning Focus: 50' silken rope, threaded with
gold (1,000 gp)
Hamatula
Seven foot tall and covered
from head to tail with sharp
barbs, the hamatula are
vicious fighters, able to
impale enemies upon their
lethal bodies. They make
superior guardians
and, in this, the
demonologist
uses the
hamatula in a
service it is
56

DEMONIC ENTITIES
familiar with upon the infernal planes and can
guarantee a greater chance of success for the
instructions he issues.
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Silver powder (500 gp)
Summoning Focus: Undamaged feather of a roc
Succubus
These are, perhaps, the most famous of all demons
and are certainly the ones of which most stories are
told. Taking the appearance of stunningly beautiful
human women, they seem utterly flawless. Only in
their natural form is any hint of demonic power
revealed, with their large bat-like wings and eyes
that actually glow with
an evil and twisted
light. Their uses,
as far as the
practitioner is
concerned,
are much the
same as those
for an erinyes
though
greater
stature is
given to a
demonologist
able to
summon a
succubus as
the
summoning
rituals tend to
be somewhat
more
complicated.
Demonic Family:
Tanar'ri
Pentagram
Component:
Powdered female
human hair
Summoning Focus: Pure
silver brush and mirror
(1,500 gp)
Special: Summoning ritual must commence at
twilight
Bebilith
The bebiliths are one of the more terrifying demons
to behold, a factor that many demonologists
considered when summoning them to use as hunters.
Looking like huge and demonic spiders, bebiliths
are capable of rending an enemy apart and their
fangs constantly drip a lethal and viscous poison.
They are particularly skilled at destroying Tanar'ri, a
duty any bebilith will relish, and so are sometimes
called upon to destroy another demon a practitioner
knows has been set upon him.
Demonic Family: None
Pentagram Component: Silver powder (500 gp)
Summoning Focus: Silver capped skull (2,500 gp)
Special: Summoning ritual must take place in a
place of burial
Cornugon
Standing at nine feet tall, a demonologist
confronting one of the
cornugons for the first
time is likely to
experience no
little
trepidation
and this
has led to
the
downfall
of more
than one
practitioner.
They
are
covered
with
scales and
their huge wings and
57

DEMONIC ENTITIES
tail, combined with the aura of fear they almost
constantly radiate, can quake the heart of the
mightiest warrior. Excelling in battle, they are most
often used by demonologists who require the death
of an especially strong enemy.
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Powdered bones
Summoning Focus: Powdered manticore wings
mixed with powdered gold (2,500 gp for the gold
only)
Gelugon
Armed with huge spears to match their wickedly
sharp claws and spikes, gelugons are deceptively
adept spies and assassins, a fact belied by their
incredible twelve feet height. Many
demonologists are aware of their
ability to infiltrate the most
heavily defended of
,V ^^OM^mls' strongholds and from
within launch an attack
or steal an item of
immense value. If
discovered, they are
more than capable of
fighting their way free
through great numbers
of mortals.
Demonic Family:
Baatezu
Pentagram
Component: Gold
powder (1,000 gp)
Summoning
Focus: Large
egg-shaped ruby
(5,000 gp)
Vrock
At eight feet tall
with huge wings
and vicious vulture-like heads, the vrock are, for
many, the archetypal demon. Amongst practitioners
of the black art, they are seen as something of a
watershed. A demonologist able to summon and
control a vrock has survived many challenges in his
work without pushing himself too fast and is clearly
capable of proceeding further down the Dark Road
through the summoning of the greatest demons of
all. Vrocks are typically used as pure battle
demons, capable of slaying hordes of lesser
attackers, be they mortal or demonic. This demon is
the reason many
demonologists
are called
upon by
armies led
by men of
few
morals, in
order to
guarantee a
victory.
Demonic
Family:
Tanar'ri
Pentagram
Component:
Elven blood
Summoning Focus:
Golden weapon of medium
size or greater (5,000 gp)
Special: Summoning ritual
must take place at the site of
a battle, recent or ancient.
Hezrou
Even more powerful than the mighty vrocks are the
hezrou and in the infernal planes they are often used
in the leading of lesser demons during the constant
wars and strife that consume those dark places.
Eschewing the use of weaponry, their huge toad-like
mouths are lined with incredibly powerful teeth that
can bite through the toughest armour. They are also
one of the more intelligent of the Tana'ri and devote
their intellect to the prosecution of war and the
destruction of anything that stands before their
masters' ambitions.
Demonic Family:
Tanar'ri
Pentagram
Component:
Powdered skulls of
warriors killed in
battle
Summoning
Focus: A war
banner at least one
hundred years old
Glabrezu
Despite being
incredible
opponents in
58

battle, the main strength of the glabrezu lies in
subtlety. Just as the succubus tempts mortals with
passion, the glabrezu beguiles them with dreams and
promises of power in the material worlds. It takes a
wily demonologist to fully realise this capability
rather than merely sending the demon to destroy all
around it. The glabrezu is to be considered for any
practitioner who wants to ruin his enemies utterly,
rather than destroy them outright, though this is
likely to take a great many summoning rituals to
accomplish as the demon is constantly called back
to carry out the
next part of a
long, tortuous
I and twisted
plan of
ruination.
Demonic
Family:
Tanar'ri
Pentagram
Component:
Gold powder
(1,000 gp)
Summoning
Focus: Large
diamond (6,000
gP)
Special:
Summoning ritual
must begin at the
rise of a full moon
Nalfeshnee
Looking like a huge twenty feet tall cross between
bear and boar, the nalfeshnee is amongst the
strongest of all the Tana'ri and even a balor might
reconsider attacking one without suitable
advantages. They are incredibly bloodthirsty and
yet prefer to outwit opponents over protracted
periods of time rather than merely tearing them
apart. Few can stand up to the fury of a nalfeshnee
enraged but a demonologist may encounter
additional problems in compelling this being into
direct battle, such is its reluctance at times.
Demonic Family: Tanar'ri
Pentagram Component: Powdered rope used to
hang an instigator of genocide
Summoning Focus: Golden mirror at least four feet
high (7,000 gp)
DEMONIC ENTITIES
Pit Fiend
The pit fiends are one of the most notorious of all
demons, being the undisputed heads of the Baatezu
family, though it is not known how many actually
exist. They are immensely powerful beings and a
demonologist is well advised to exercise a great
amount of care when summoning and attempting to
control such might. They are capable of succeeding
at virtually any task the demonologist may set
before them but their incredible wills have the
potential to
destroy the very
mind of any
foolish enough
to make a
mistake in a
summoning
ritual.
59

DEMONIC ENTITIES
Demonic Family: Baatezu
Pentagram Component: Platinum powder (5,000
gP)
Summoning Focus: Magical weapon of medium
size or greater, with minimum +1 enhancement
bonus
Marilith
Mariliths represent almost the pinnacle of the
demonological arts, being nearly as powerful as
the notorious balors. They are superb tacticians
and are often employed by practitioners wanting
to gain a strategic edge on a military enemy,
though they are also well-versed in politics of
low cunning. Within the infernal planes they are
often to be found in the service of the highest
demonic royalty and thus they do not take to
being summoned by mortals with any degree of
complacency. A practitioner calling up a marilith is
one who must be utterly certain of his own abilities.
Demonic Family: Tanar'ri
Pentagram Component: Emerald powder (5,000 gp)
Summoning Focus: Magical weapon of medium size
or greater, with minimum +2 enhancement bonus
Balor
For those demonologists ignorant of the higher
demonic powers, the absolute rulers of the infernal
planes, the balors represent the only worthy goal of
their art. To summon and control a balor, to dominate
it by sheer force of will to a mortal's bidding is the
dream of most practitioners. It requires an incredible
attention to detail and few scruples to mass the
knowledge and tools necessary to stand any chance of
success in the control of the mighty balor, with even
the most accomplished demonologists gambling their
chances as no better than fifty-fifty. The mere
presence of a balor towering over a summoner,
wreathed in flames as it glowers down is sufficient to
break the concentration of any lesser practitioner and
thus few survive their first encounter with the leaders
of the Tanar'ri.
Demonic Family: Tanar'ri
Pentagram Component: Diamond powder (6,000 gp)
Summoning Focus: Magical weapon of large size or
greater, with minimum +3 enhancement bonus
60

DEMONIC ENTITIES
Santado forced his excitement to the back of his mind as he began the final quatrains of his incantation. He
had finally found all of the information and items he required to attempt this summoning. It had taken him a
full seven hours to draw the pentagram and elaborate runes that now glowed slightly before him. Prior to that,
there had been six months of collecting components and scouting a suitable location. These were but blinks of
the eye compared to the seven years of painstaking investigation and research that had allowed Santado to set
his feet on the Dark Road.
He felt the hairs on his arms and the back of his neck rise as the power he controlled began to course through
the carefully scribed pentagram, causing it to glow brighter. The large gold mirror in the centre of the
summoning area began to glow as well. His breath fogged slightly in the pallid light, making his ancient
words nearly visible as he chanted. Santado felt the Power tear at his will, trying to force itself free of the
restrictions he had put on it. The luminosity of the pentagram and runes throbbed in time with his chant
casting eerie shadows that brought to mind the silhouettes of hanged men on the walls of the chamber.
As Santado finished his incantation a loud thunderclap echoed through the summoning chamber accompanied
by a noxious cloud of thick yellow smoke. The demonologist clapped his hands bringing forth a breeze that
tattered the bilious fog, clearing the air and revealing the demon he had laboured so diligently to summon.
Hunched in the centre of the casting circle squatted a huge, misshapen figure. Large cloven hooves glinted
dully in the waning light of the pentagram. Its powerful ursine body was matted in thick fur bristling into a
shaggy ruff that covered the massive shoulders and neck. The head of the demon was that of a gargantuan
boar with three sets of gleaming, razor-sharp tusks. Santado had never imagined the demon would be so huge
though he had read hundreds of descriptions of the bloodthirsty nalfeshnee. The demon rested its sharp taloned
paws on its knees as it looked around the chamber.
'What soul-bearer calls me?' The creature's voice grated against Santado's ear sounding like a combination of
crumbling rock and tearing metal.
The demonologist swallowed past the growing lump of fear in his throat and forced strength into his voice.
Any sign of weakness now would lead to his swift demise. T do.'
The demon's lip curled with disgust. 'You, little man? Who are you to summon me?'
Santado smiled, 'You'll not get my name so easily. You may call me Master.'
The nalfeshnee's hackles bristled as it rose to a crouch. 'Think you that this puny barrier will hold me? Watch
your words, human.'
Santado allowed himself a smug smile, 'True. The circle cannot hold you, but my knowledge of your true
name will, Epok.'
The demon cringed and scowled, 'What did you call me?'
'Your true name - Epok.'
The demon's muzzle split in an unholy grin, 'That is not my name, little braggart.'
Santado's eyes went wide. His stomach lurched as he felt the Power surge unchecked around him as the
nalfeshnee stood to its full height. 'B - but the texts . . .'
'That is not my problem.'
61

DESIGNER'S NOTES
DESIGNER'S
NOTES
Well, Demonology - The Dark Road is
finally complete and I can take a well
earned break. Until it is time to start
writing Necromancy - Beyond the Grave, the next
in line for the Encyclopaedia Arcane series, of
course.
When the idea of doing a supplement based purely
around the process of summoning and controlling
demons was first dreamt up, I knew the whole feel
had to be dark and insidious, as befitted the practice.
Looking back through the chapters, I believe we
have knocked the nail right on the head.
From the very start, 1 wanted demonology to
actually feel different from other forms of magic.
After all, we were looking at summoning and
controlling insanely powerful creatures from the
lowest regions of the infernal planes. We had to get
that across to players. We also had to give a reason
for players to try their hand in the practice rather
than relying on Magic Circle and Planar Binding
spells at higher levels. The idea of risk versus
reward started to form.
With the system presented here, there is no strict
level progression as with other character classes.
On achieving 6th level, you don't automatically gain
the ability to summon and control, say, an erinyes.
Instead, we have left it to the discretion of the
individual player as to what they believe they can
attempt and the Games Master retains absolute
control as to what demons may appear in his
campaign. As the rules slowly began to take shape,
we started to lay more and more traps for
demonologist characters - there is always the
temptation to go a little too far and pay a heavy
price as a result. The Mask of Disguise is a perfect,
though minor, example of this. Imagine, if you will,
a demonologist who has suffered possession by two
or three demons and is terribly disfigured, forced to
live as a recluse whilst the rest of the party enjoy
themselves in the comforts of civilisation. One day,
he finds the Mask of Disguise in some ruined keep
and, behold, his problems are over as he finally
returns to normal. The question then is, does he risk
possession one more time to summon a powerful
demon, knowing the mask will not serve to hide
further disfigurement? The practice is loaded with
such traps - have fun finding them!
So, who in the nine hells will actually risk their
character in demonology? Well, risk is always
balanced with gain - a demonologist will gain
power through the demons he summons more
rapidly than an ordinary wizard will with his own
arcane skills, though the former is unlikely to
survive completely unscathed. The successful
demonologist player will be good at calculating
odds and will always have a plan in case things do
not go as they should during a summoning. It does
not matter how good a demonologist you are - there
is forever the possibility of failure.
With all this in mind, it became impossible for us to
recommend demonologists as purely non-player
characters. They were just too much fun and that is,
after all, the point of the game. I promise you, you
will see other players begin to run when the
demonologist announces he is going to attempt yet
another summoning!
There are three potential areas I can foresee some
players having a problem with regarding these rules,
so let me try to pre-empt you;
1. The use of the word demon. Yes, we know devils
are not demons and that collectively they are called
fiends. But fiendology just does not have the same
ring to it. Thus, for the purposes of this book alone,
all are called demons.
2. We have used Challenge Ratings rather than hit
dice to grade demons throughout, particularly in the
summoning and controlling rules. Challenge
Ratings, by their very nature, tend to be a bit woolly
but they do provide a reasonable ballpark and also
allow demons from other publishers' supplements to
be integrated with the least amount of work on the
part of the Games Master. At the end of the day, a
Games Master is free to alter the Challenge Ratings
of demons in his own campaign as he sees fit.
3. Finally, yes, we are aware there is no such word
as summonation. But this is fantasy and the word
fits - deal with it!
I sincerely hope you enjoy these rules as much as I
have. Try not to run too fast in the art and perhaps
I'll see you at the end of the Dark Road.
Matthew Sprange
62


RULES SUMMARY
RULES SUMMARY
Research Summary
Identify demonic text: Demon Lore check DC 15
Comprehend demonic text: 1d3 days + CR of demon,
Demon Lore check, base DC 20
Summoning Check
DC 10 + Demon's CR
Modifiers
Expertise + Demonology Class Levels
Study and Preparation + Demonologist's
Intelligence Bonus
High Quality Components +1-3
Slow Ritual +2
Previously Summoned Demon +1
Distraction -1 per Other Creature Present
Hurried Ritual -4
Control Check
DC 10 + Twice Demon's CR
Modifiers
Expertise + Demonologist's Level
Force of Will + Demonologist's Charisma Bonus
Greater Name Known +5
True Name Known +10
Blood Sacrifice +1
Soul Sacrifice + Character Level of Sacrifice
Soul Sacrifice of Paladin or Good Cleric +
Twice Character Level of Sacrifice
Soul Servitude + Three Times Summoner's
Character Level
Slow Ritual +2
Previously Controlled Demon +1
Distraction -1 per Other Creature Present
Hurried Ritual -4
Additional Instructions -2 Cumulative
Repeated Summoning -1 per Attempt Cumulative
Within 30 Days
Possessing Another —4
Group Ritual + total class levels, divided by 3
Multiple Summonations -1 per demon
Strength of Will Feat +2
Binding -6
Falun cursed as he heard the bell over the door ring. He was sure that he had locked the door before retiring.
He cursed again and slowly eased his old bones off his cot. 'The sign says 'closed', can't you read?'
The old sage pushed the curtain aside and blinked into the dim twilight of his shop. He made out a vague
robed shape standing just inside the door. 'Who are you?' When the figure stepped forward Falun recognised
him as the young upstart Santado, but twisted as if some much larger creature had donned his skin.
'You don't look so well, old man. Cut it a bit close this time, didn't you?'
Falun's face split in a toothless grin, 'Ep'kD', how good to see you.'
The figure's eyes flashed luminous green as it snarled, 'One of these days, you will make a mistake, human.'
Falun shook his head, 'You've been saying that for two hundred years now, old friend. If and when I make a
mistake, you will be long gone. Be content with the souls I send you. Now about our arrangement.'
'I tire of this game, old man.'
Falun smiled, stretching his limbs as they revitalised with the demonic energy flooding into them, marvelling
at his new-found strength of youth.
64


TZARETCH FAMILY
THE
TZARETCH
NARK
Nark (Tzaretch)
Small Outsider (Chaotic, Evil)
Hit Dice: 2d8 (9 hp)
Initiative: +0
Speed: 30 ft
AC: 16 (+1 size, +5 natural)
Attacks: Claw +3 melee
Damage: Claw 1D4
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Summon Tzaretch
Special Qualities: Damage reduction 5/silver, SR 5,
Tzaretch qualities
Saves: Fort +3, Ref+3, Will +3
Abilities: Str 10, Dex 10, Con 10, Int 5, Wis 10, Cha
10
Skills: Listen +8, Spot +15, Wilderness Lore +0
Feats: -
Climate/Terrain: Any land or underground
Organisation: Solitary, gang (2-4)
Challenge rating: 2
Treasure: None
Alignment: Always chaotic evil
Advancement: 3-6 HD (small)
These demons are small and pathetic looking creatures
who are created by the lords of the Tzaretch solely to
function as trackers for their more powerful kindred.
They are devoid of much intelligence and are easily
influenced by other demons, having a herd mentality
that allows great numbers of them to be swayed upon
the infernal planes.
Once instructed to track a named quarry, they prove
tremendously skilled and dedicated to the task, not
least because the Tzaretch demons are not noted for
their tolerance of failure. Narks have a drive for
survival that is belied by their usually quiet and sullen
manner.
Narks are short humanoids, rarely growing more than
three feet tall, with stubby legs and facial features
reminiscent of canines. Their arms are also
disproportionally short for their hairless bodies and the
skin is of a uniform drab yellow, visibly contrasting
with bright red eyes. A nark's mouth is perpetually
open, revealing blunt teeth and constant drool.
COMBAT
Narks prefer to avoid combat at all costs, for their sole
function amongst the Tzaretch is to hunt and locate
targets for more powerful demons, though they are
occasionally herded together to be used as cannon
fodder in the immense battles of the infernal planes.
Upon sighting its designated target, a nark will close to
within ten feet and let out a deafening, bellowing roar
seemingly at odds with its diminutive stature. If
forced to fight, a nark will defend itself but will always
seek to avoid combat whenever possible.
Summon Tzaretch (Sp): For each round that a nark
roars there is a cumulative 10% chance that a Vlai-
Maroth will appear. If it is prevented from roaring, by
being attacked for example, then the summoning will
fail and the cumulative 10% chance restarts once the
nark begins once more.
Skills: Narks get a +8 racial bonus to listen and spot
checks. Narks get an additional +8 to Spot and
Wilderness Lore checks when tracking by scent due to
their keen sense of smell.
1

TZARETCH FAMILY
VLAI-MAROTH
Vlai-Maroth (Tzaretch)
Medium-Size Outsider (Chaotic, Evil)
Hit Dice: 8d8+8 (44 hp)
Initiative: +6
Speed: 30 ft
AC: 18 (+8 natural)
Attacks: 2 Talons + 10 melee
Damage: Talon IDS +2
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities
Special Qualities: Damage reduction 20/+2, SR 17,
Tzaretch qualities
Saves: Fort +7, Ref+8, Will +6
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 14, Con 13, Int 11, Wis 11,
Chal2
Skills: Listen +16, Spot +18
Feats: Improved initiative, dodge
Climate/Terrain: Any land or
underground
Organisation: Solitary
Challenge rating: 6
Treasure: Standard
Alignment: Always chaotic evil
Advancement: 9-16 HD (medium)
Upon the infernal planes, within the
dark domains of the Tzaretch, the
vlai-maroth work in concert with the
enfeebled narks, the lesser demon
locating prey to be utterly destroyed.
They are most noted for their
predilection for actually consuming
their prey entirely, thus ensuring
permanent destruction in a place
where such things are not wisely taken
for granted.
Very ancient texts often term the vlai-
maroth as elf-eaters and, on occasion,
make reference to a small but
powerful invasion of elven mages
directly into the heart of the Tzaretch
realms. Considering the amount of
myth and legend surrounding both elf-
kind and demonic entities, the
veracity of such accounts is often left
for the reader to determine for
himself. However, the vlai-maroth do
demonstrate an uncanny capacity for success when
tasked to hunt down and destroy elven enemies.
The vlai-maroth are rarely seen by any mortal as they
can remain invisible right up to the moment of attack.
They are said to be dreadfully emaciated humanoids
with slight but distinctive features reminiscent of elf-
kind. Their overly long arms are their primary melee
weapons and end in wickedly sharp talons. The body
of a vlai-maroth is covered in fine snake-like scales,
varying in colour from pale red to deepest purple.
COMBAT
Upon sighting its target, a vlai-maroth will
immediately turn invisible if, indeed, it has not already
done so. The demon will remain
thus, constantly watching its prey
for weaknesses until an
opportunity for attack presents
itself. When striking, a vlai-
maroth will use its fear causing
ability to disrupt and scatter
any determined resistance as it
closes in. Once its target has
been defeated, it will begin to
feast upon the body, only
stopping to defend itself
from further attacks.
Spell-like abilities: At
will - Invisibility, Fear.
A vlai-maroth requires
no material components
to cast these spells and
they work exactly as
described in the Player's
Guide as if cast by a 5th
level sorcerer (save DC
10 + spell level).
Skills: Vlai-Maroth
receive a +8 racial bonus
to Listen and Spot
checks.
2

TZARETCH FAMILY
QUADROS
Quadros (Tzaretch)
Medium-Size Outsider (Chaotic, Evil)
Hit Dice: 6d8+6 (33 hp)
Initiative: +4 (Improved Initiative)
Speed: 40 ft
AC: 17 (+7 natural)
Attacks: 4 swords +9 melee
Damage: Long Sword IDS +2
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities, Battle
frenzy
Special Qualities: Damage reduction 20/+2,
SR 17, Tzaretch qualities
Saves: Fort +7, Ref+8, Will +6
Abilities: Str 15, Dex 15, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 11,
ChalO
Skills: Concentration +6, Hide +6, Listen +10, Spot
+12
Feats: Improved initiative, Multidexterity,
Multiweapon Fighting, Weapon Focus (Long Sword)
Climate/Terrain: Any land or underground
Organisation: Solitary, gang (2-4), band (6-10)
Challenge rating: 7
Treasure: Standard
Alignment: Always chaotic evil
Advancement: 7-9 HD (medium) 10-18 HD (large)
Vicious, four armed destroyers, the quadros are
utilised as shock troops in the demonic armies of the
Tzaretch. They are the most numerous demons in a
family that constantly vies and struggles with others
far larger. In times when the Tzaretch are courted by
other demonic factions, it is the large numbers of the
ferocious quadros that often tilt the balance of any
negotiation of bargain.
A foul creature of some seven feet tall, a quadros
bulges with well-toned muscle beneath its blood-red
skin. Vivid blue veins contrast sharply and constantly
twist and writhe before an observer's eyes. Every
quadros is armed with four demonically-crafted
weapons with which it wields in battle with deadly
expertise. The most favoured weapon is the long
sword, though some prefer mighty axes or heavy
maces. A quadros summoned by a mortal will always
be armed with the weapons used as a summoning
focus.
COMBAT
There is nothing subtle about a quadros in battle.
They enjoy combat and are very good at it. Bred as
shock troops, any quadros will seek to engage enemies
in the shortest time possible, slaying all around with
its deadly weapons as it works up into a battle frenzy,
using its special abilities to shatter the will and morale
of organised foes.
Spell-Like abilities: At will - Charm Person,
Command, Desecrate, Magic Weapon and Suggestion.
A quadros can also induce Fear as the spell, except
that it only affects one person. These abilities are as
cast by an 8th level sorcerer (save DC 10 + spell level).
Battle Frenzy (Ex): A quadros can work itself into a
battle frenzy similar to the barbarian's rage ability (+4
Strength, +4 Constitution, +2 morale bonus to Will
saves, -2 AC penalty), for a +2 bonus to attacks and
damage and 12 extra hit points. The frenzy lasts 6
rounds and the quadros suffers no ill effects afterward.
Skills: Quadros' receive a +8 racial bonus to Listen
and Spot checks.
3

TZARETCH FAMILY
The Tzaretch are one of the lesser demonic families,
forced to live by wit and deceit beneath the sheer
dominating might of the Tanar'ri. All Tzaretch
speak Abyssal, Celestial and Draconic.
TZARETCH QUALITIES
Immunities (Ex): Tzaretch are immune to acid,
poison and electricity
Resistances (Ex): Tzaretch have cold and fire
resistance 20
Telepathy (Su): Tzaretch can communicate
telepathically with any creature within 100 feet that
has a language
See Invisible (Su): Tzaretch can see invisible
creatures
SKARN
Skarn (Tzaretch)
Large-Size Outsider (Chaotic, Evil)
HitDice:4D8(18hp)
Initiative: +1 (Dex)
Speed: 30 ft., fly 40 ft. (poor)
AC: 20 (-1 size, +11 natural)
Attacks: Claw +10 melee
Damage: Claw IDS +1
Face/Reach: 5 ft. by 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities
Special Qualities: Damage reduction
20/+2, SR 20, Death Throes,
Tzaretch qualities
Saves: Fort +, Ref +8, Will +6
Abilities: Str 13, Dex 13, Con 6, Int
20, Wis 20, Cha 16
Skills: Concentration +14,
Knowledge (any two) +10, Listen +8,
Scry +18, Spellcraft +18, Spot +8
Feats: -
Climate/Terrain: Any land or
underground
Organisation: Solitary
Challenge rating: 9
Treasure: Standard
Alignment: Always chaotic evil
Advancement: 5-8 HD (large)
Skarn are lords of the Tzaretch,
subservient only to the great demonic
royalty that head the family. Appearing as large, portly
humanoids over eight feet tall, these demons have huge
black wings they almost constantly keep folded around
their bodies as a living cloak. Their blubbery skin is
pale green with some few patches of blue upon their
hands and arms. At first glance, the head of a skarn
may seem almost human, though an elongated jaw and
bright red eyes betray their demonic origins.
The skarn collect knowledge and information with a
passion that approaches obsession, treating it as a
commodity to rival the vital harvesting of souls. It is
this facet of their nature that often proves irresistible to
mortals, for they are repositories of facts both demonic
and mundane. Upon the infernal planes, it is the
combined intellect of the skarn that have kept the
Tzaretch from being swallowed by far more powerful
demonic families but there is always a terrible
price to pay when one is compelled to divulge
information to the detriment of another
demon or family.
COMBAT
The skarn disdain physical combat in any
form, preferring to defeat opponents
merely by outwitting them or, as a last
resort, using their repertoire of abilities
from behind a shield of guardian quadros.
They are relatively weak in comparison to
similar demons of other families and they
move slowly, even whilst in clumsy flight,
making retreat rarely a safe option.
Spell-Like abilities: At will - Charm
Person, Chaos Hammer, Command,
Desecrate, Dispel Magic, Fear, Fireball,
Magic Circle against Good, Wall of
Force, and Suggestion. These abilities are
as cast by an 10th level sorcerer (save DC
10 + spell level).
Skills: Skarn receive a +8 racial bonus to
Listen and Spot checks.
4
