The book of Alkhemi
Issued by the
Thelemic Order and
Temple of the Golden Dawn
Official Holy Book
of the Novus Ordo Aureae Aurora
concerning the Royal Art of Alkhemi
Received by
Sir David Cherubim
Copyright (c) 1989 e.v.
1. The Great Work is One: Attain Thou That! All things
are modes of expression of That One Thing and Its Eternal Quest
for Unity with Itself in the Immeasurable Light of Its Universal
Holiness.
2. This is the Highest Will of All: Union with That!
3. That Alone is Truth; and This that Thou knowest is a
necessary complement thereof.
4. Wherefore We charge ye to know the True Nature of That
One Thing.
5. Therefore shall We also charge ye to know the One
Meaning of That One Thing, as ye shall learn in the course of
thine initiations, through the many lives of thy fabricated
karma, to the Final Illustrious Summit of Thy True Will in the
Eternal and Secret Abode of L.V.X.; yea, in the Eternal and
Secret Abode of L.V.X.
6. The Great Work of the Sun is Proclaimed: Attain Thou
the Mystic Crown of the Ages!
7. Here is a prophecy of divinity, most sublime for many
future Adepts. This Royal Book of Our Transcendental Science
will remain amongst men of this little earth for many generations
to come. Many adepts in the future will understand this holy
book and apply its secret gnosis to the accomplishment of the
Great Work; and thereby will they secretly partake of the
Ineffable Mystery of the True Stone of the Wise which is hidden
in the Sanctum Sanctorum of the Eternal Temple of the Holy
Magick of Light.
8. By the Ageless Wisdom of Hermes Trismegistus, Thrice-
greatest One, Whom is the Lord of Our Royal Science and
Sacerdotal Art, is this Holy Book made possible for the children
of men.
9. He that hath an ear to hear, let him hear the wondrous
and melodious splendours of High Wisdom, immanent yet concealed

within these sweet celestial words of the vast subtlety of the
Crown of Creation.
10. Thou shalt discern the imperishable golden splendours
of these holy runes of magick in the Eternal Vision of Wisdom,
and with the Inner Ear of Thy Spirit, and also by virtue of a
certain key of knowledge which is unpronounced and unrecognized
amongst the men of this little world of corporeal existence.
11. These secret splendours reveal the highest glory for
the perfect attainment of the One Truth in man.
12. For all that is recorded herein is a true testimony of
things seen with the Inner Eye of Our Soul, and of things heard
with the Inner Ear of Our Spirit.
13. This Holy Book is a fountain of truth, by which ye
shall come to understand the Invisible Agencies which direct the
hidden operations of the Great Work throughout the infinite
spaces of Infinity, with worlds without end, above and below,
left and right, before and behind.
14. These Subtle Agencies are three in number, capable of
great and vast transformations through pure multiplication and
exaltation of their infinite and elastic elements of becoming.
15. Yet there is but One Knowledge of the One True Formula
of those Three Arcane Agencies which constitute the
accomplishment of the Great Work, which hath been communicated
partially in diverse ways throughout the aeons of time, with each
way declaring itself the One Absolute Truth.
16. But herein is a great and mighty misfortune which hath
bound many uninitiated candidates of Our Royal Art to the baleful
chains of ignorance and death.
17. For many are the ways which lead to the Grand Golden
Palace of Our Magnum Opus, and in each way thou shalt find a
lesser formula of knowledge applicable to the One End; yet are
all these lesser ways but mere reflections of the One True and
Unknown Way of Attainment.
18. There are also three lesser agencies which concentrate
and synthesize the Three Higher Agencies into the innumerable
worlds of Our Infinite Universe.
19. If thou canst discover the exoteric operations of these
three lesser principles of Nature, thou shalt likewise obtain a
holy glimpse of the Three Higher Principles of which We speak.
20. Each lesser principle is a sign of the higher, but
after a certain manner most secret and most mysterious.
21. On earth shalt thou find these principles reflected and
made especially manifest in thy works of physical union.
22. There is fire, and there is water, and then there is
Air: there is sulphur, and there is salt, and then there is
Mercury.
23. Seest thou not the true nature of these things?

24. Ah! thou hast not yet trained thy mind to comprehend
the treasures of earth, which are not material wealth, nor are
they material goods; but rather are they holy treasures which,
when found, make a man to sell all that he hath for them.
25. But the Three Higher Principles of the Universe are
beyond these, being subtle, ineffable and supernal. All three
of these greater principles are equal in essence to one another;
there is no difference between them in the measure of infinity
which they contain within themselves: each one of these Higher
Principles is equally infinite.
26. Now let it be understood amongst the holy circle of
Initiates that in thine own Holy Rose Garden there dominates
these Three Higher Principles of the Vast Unknown of the
Celestial Beyond.
27. Thou shalt first secure Understanding; then shalt thou
attain Wisdom; and so shalt thou obtain the Ageless Crown of
Eternal Splendour. These are the Three Ineffable Mysteries of
the Palace of the Stars!
28. They are also the eternal secrets of the Great Lamp of
Wisdom: there is the light, and the oil, and the lamp itself.
29. Study thou well this threefold teaching of
Hermes-Mercurius- Thoth, Thrice-greatest Master of the Opus of
the Sun; and so shalt thou accomplish the Great Work of the Aeon.
30. Thou shalt also know that the Three Higher Principles
of which We speak are mysterious revelations of a more Ineffable
Trinity of Inscrutable Unity.
31. Now the Inward Work is threefold; and the Outward Work
is threefold. Each is a Threefold Unity of Soul, Mind and Body.
32. The Hidden Stone of the Ages is thus obtained, even
here and now. Let the Sun and the Moon unite; let them bear an
Hermaphrodite! Let a child be born: it shall be the Stone of
the Sages, the Medicine of Metals, and the Elixir of Life.
33. Also the Threefold Unity Above is expanded into a
seven- petalled Rose; and on each petal there is inscribed in
fire one of the seven letters of VITRIOL.
34. Also each rose petal is of a different color; four
petals are mixed, and the other three are virgin. Also each
petal has a unique scent, taste, and touch to it. All these come
forth from the Centre of the Cross, that is, from the Place of
the Palace of the Stars in the midst of it all.
35. And in each letter of fire on the seven petals of the
Sacred Rose there is concealed a vision and a voice. And in each
vision and voice there is concealed a divine splendour of
unspeakable transmutations of ineffable mystery and wonder. All
these inner splendours are different stages of Our Master Opus of
Divine Transformation which can be interpreted in many ways in
many lands.

36. So sayeth Hermes Trismegistus, Lord of Our Royal and
Sacerdotal Art of Alkhemi, Whom is also the Wisdom of the Gods
and the Logos of the Ineffable Unknown. Mysteries revealed are
mysteries concealed; and none but the Wise may decipher them.
This Holy Book of the Magick of Hermes is hermetically sealed;
and none but the Wise may unravel its sublime splendours of High
Wisdom for the accomplishment of the Great Work of the Sun; yea,
for the accomplishment of the Great Work of the Sun.
