Templum Pocket Guide Series 1 Pocket Guide to Chaos Magick
Copyright Frater FP 1999 Last Modified 13/Oct/99
Pocket Chaos Magick
1. Read Liber Null and Prometheus Rising
2. Read the Collected Works of AO SPARE
3. Read everything by Jan Fries and Phil Hine
4. Practice Sigil Magick
5. Practice Trance States
6. Practice Sorcery
7. Learn about Dynamic Systems Theory, Catastrophe Theory and Strange Attractors
8. Build your own models
9. Practice what you Preach
10. Develop your own Sorcery
Notes
There is a syllabus of sorts in Liber Null which is worthwhile pursuing, and the Pact offer other
courses, I gather. Don’t forget that the Chaos in Chaos Magick refers to a scientific model which maps
dynamic systems, such as clouds or water, and is not a reference to disorganisation or anarchy! Chaos
magick should be approached from a scientific viewpoint, remember the stages at school; Introduction,
Postulate, Experiment, Observation, Results, Theory? However, the freedom comes with not having to
adopt a belief system prior to experiment, so you are free to try whatever techniques from whichever
systems you feel attracted to. The downside is why bother? Chaos Magick, like NLP in psychology, is
an eclectic bunch of approaches, but has no overarching goal or aim. Initiation and Enlightenment do
not feature in its canon aside from as method and side-effect. If you make your goal excellence in
technique, then this is the system for your attitude, if you approach it rigorously.
In Real Life …
Here’s a warning from one technique – sigils can be more powerful than they appear, for such an easy
technique. I once cast a sigil for a particular desire, and the object of my desire became an obsession,
even when I consciously realised that it was damaging the rest of my life. To this day, twelve years
later, there is a psychological scar where I removed the sigil by banishing. In NLP, which has
similarities to Chaos Magick (i.e. dangerous fascination with results over aims) there is a useful
technique which can mitigate against such problems, called an “environment check.” Before casting a
sigil, you can use this technique to ensure that the rest of your personality isn’t going to rebel or have
problems with the particular result being gained. It is quite interesting that what stops us succeeding is
often the fear of success, not failure! Check, in the immortal words of the Spice Girls, that what you
want is what you really really want!
Links
• Chaos Magick Journal
• Phil Hines WebSite
Books
• Liber Null (Carroll, P.)
• Prometheus Rising (Wilson, R. A.)
• The Collected Works (Spare, Austin Osman)
http://www.templum.com
Cognitatione sui secumque colloquio firmitatem petere.
A Site for Enquiring Minds.
