$67.00 (USD)
By Bogdan and Giancarlo
Copyright © 2004 www.witchcraftexposed.com, Bogdan and Giancarlo.
All Rights Reserved

2
I 	N 	D 	E 	X
What is the Aura?---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Seeing the Aura------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Avoiding After-Images---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aura colors------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Practice techniques------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Multiple Levels-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXERCISES------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXERCISE 1: DIVINING THE AURA----------------------------------------------------------
EXERCISE # 2---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXERCISE 3: IMAGING THE AURA----------------------------------------------------------
THE CHAKRAS-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEVEN CHAKRAS---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE ROOT OR BASE CHAKRA---------------------------------------------------------------
THE SEX OR HARA CHAKRA-----------------------------------------------------------------
THE SOLAR PLEXUS CHAKRA---------------------------------------------------------------
THE HEART CHAKRA----------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE THROATH CHAKRA-----------------------------------------------------------------------
THE THIRD-EYE OR BROW CHAKRA------------------------------------------------------
THE CROWN CHAKRA--------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE CHAKRAS--------------------------------------------
What is meditation?------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How is meditation different from
relaxation, thinking, concentration or self-hypnosis?--------------------------------
What are the different meditation techniques?-----------------------------------------
MEDITATION EXERCISES----------------------------------------------------------------------
ASTRAL PROJECTION--------------------------------------------------------------------------
How does Projection Happen?---------------------------------------------------------------
Uses of Astral Projection-----------------------------------------------------------------------
The Out of Body Experience-------------------------------------------------------------------
The Lucid Dream----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Astral Projection Or Lucid Dream?----------------------------------------------------------
How To Use ROPE--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How Far Can You Go?---------------------------------------------------------------------------
FUTURE WIND--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Symbolic Visions----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Visualization Method-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Astral Projection Training----------------------------------------------------------------------
CALMING THE MIND-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contemplation--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Breath Meditation---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4
4
4
5
5
5
6
6
8
8
9
9
9
11
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
20
20
20
21
22
22
22
24
24
25
25
26
26
27
27

3
Surface Thoughts---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONCENTRATION--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Concentration Exercise # 1--------------------------------------------------------------------
Concentration Exercise # 2--------------------------------------------------------------------
Concentration Exercise # 3--------------------------------------------------------------------
The Trance State-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How to Enter A Trance---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deep Trance-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Energy Body Expansion------------------------------------------------------------------------
Trance Familiarity---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tactile Imaging-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Energy Exercise-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Meditation Technique for developing Psychic Skills---------------------------------
Astral Guides---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DIFFERENT ASTRAL PROJECTION EXERCISES--------------------------------------
Exercise # 1-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Exercise # 2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illustrations and Examples---------------------------------------------------------------------
27
27
28
28
28
28
28
29
30
30
31
32
32
34
35
35
37
40

4
What is the aura?
An aura is an energy field around an object, plant, animal, or person. It contains
information about the health of an organism, its emotional and mental state, and many
other things. Color, texture, shape, size, and motion of the aura all provide information
about the organism or object.
Seeing the Aura
Relax your body, mind, and eyes. Choose an object or person to look at. (This works
best with objects and plants to begin with because you aren't nervous about what they
are thinking of you.) Look gently at the object, letting your gaze focus slightly behind the
object. Don't stare; eye strain doesn't help any.
Feel yourself looking with your third eye also. This is an area of the forehead that tends
to be psychically sensitive. To find it, close your eyes and feel your focus shift up
slightly. Open and close your eyes a few times to find this shift. Don't roll your eyes
backward to look up; this will just cause a headache.
Once you are confident of where the focus shift is, try letting your focus shift up in the
same way but with your eyes open. Do it gently; don't force it. This should give the
sensation of looking out of your eyes and out of your mind/forehead at the same time.
This shift of focus awakens psychic vision, which is used to see auras.
Avoiding After-Images
Look just past the object whose aura you want to see, using your eyes gently to see and
keeping your focus lifted to the third eye area, also. If you begin to see lines of color
around the object, you can check to see if they are an actual aura by looking away. If
you see after-images that look like the lines you saw, it's not an aura. After-images are a
biological effect of the eyes caused by eye strain. To keep after-images from building
up, blink fairly often and don't look at one thing too long. As you become better with the
techniques for aura vision, you will not need to look at an object for very long to see an
aura.
Don't be afraid of looking away when you think you can see an aura. If it is a real aura, it
WILL be there when you look back and refocus on it. If it isn't there then, it's actually
only an after-image, and looking away will clear the image out of your eyes. When you
are trying to clear out the after-images, simply closing your eyes for a minute or two is
an easy way to do it. When you stop seeing the image on the inside of your eyes, the
image is cleared and you can go back to seeing the aura.

5
Aura colors
Auras come in many shapes, sizes, colors, and textures. There is no standard
interpretation of colors because different people perceive different colors for each
meaning. The best way to discover the meanings of colors is to read about various
traditional meanings, see if any fit what you see, and use the meanings as a basis to
decide what the colors mean to you.
Also, observe the shape, texture, and solidity of different auras to evaluate your
experiences with those things. Shape and texture generally tend to show the attitude of
the person towards other people who are standing close to them; often a very sharp
border and a solidly shaped aura shows someone who is decisive about how close
people can be to them. Perceptions change with the viewer, though, so you should
experiment and observe to determine how to interpret certain aspects.
Practice techniques
As you practice seeing auras, stay relaxed and calm. Let things flow without trying to
force anything. If you find you are spending a long time without seeing anything, relax.
Often the moment you relax and quit trying, you will suddenly see the aura quite clearly.
So relax, have fun, and be patient.
Practice fairly often, but don't tire yourself doing it. If things aren't working, take a break,
do something fun, and try again later when you can be more relaxed and patient. Some
people find aura vision easier when they are preparing to go to sleep because they are
already relaxed and tired enough that they don't have the energy to force things to
happen. While this should never be carried to extremes, practicing aura vision at least a
little bit when you are already tired can be helpful, especially if you have a difficult time
letting things happen without forcing them.
Being in a slightly dim room can also be helpful so you don't strain your eyes trying to
see. Having a solidly colored background behind what you are looking at can also help.
The color doesn't matter, as long as it doesn't strain your eyes to look at it. Grays,
whites, very dark colors, and browns work fairly well. Primarily, you want an
environment that won't be visually distracting.
Multiple Levels
The aura is made up of multiple levels, like an onion, but with each level reaching from
the very center of the person outward. Close to the body, all of the levels overlap. Each
level outward reaches farther away from the body. Also, each level out becomes less
dense, lighter, more subtle, and generally more difficult to see.

6
The best way to learn to see the outer levels is to first practice seeing the inner ones,
and then let your awareness become more and more expanded. You may notice
yourself feeling lighter and happier as you work more and more with seeing the first
level of the aura. Let more of this feeling of lightness build in you as you try to see the
second and third levels. Also, let yourself feel outward with your own aura, using the
various feeling senses to observe the aura you are looking at.
Let yourself become more relaxed and open as you open up to see the outer layers.
Feel your vision shifting more strongly toward the third eye and clairvoyance. Remain
relaxed and light feeling, and your vision will expand to include the layers that are
farther out, nine layers or possibly more.
You can see, and as you are able to see more, pause and enjoy the beauty of being
able to see it. Also, observe the interactions between the auras of people and those of
plants and animals.
EXERCISES
The following exercises may be used to introduce the student to the concepts and
perceptive skills needed to see, feel, and manipulate the Human Energy Field or Aura. I
will briefly discuss the HEF and the relationships between the five senses and their
Extra sensory counterparts known to "Spirit Sensitive".
The brief descriptions I give may serve as a guideline for discussion with the new
student but are by no means authoritative. The universe is permeated by a field of
energy and information known as the Universal Energy Field (UEF). This field is all
encompassing. It is what all matter and energy are a part of. One important property of
this field is that it is perfectly unified. Picture this: A pool of water is disturbed and the
ripples take no time to form. That is all of the water is disturbed at the same time. There
can be no assignment of cause and effect because the cause and the effect are not
separated by time.
In the following exercises I will use touch as the breakthrough sense because it is the
most trusted sense and the easiest to demonstrate.
Later visual cues will be used to enhance the students perception. If the exercises are
done diligently and seriously, most student will perceive auras within a week.
EXERCISE 1: DIVINING THE AURA
GOAL To use divination to demonstrate how the aura can be detected by the novice.
This will build faith and speed progress.

7
1. Build two L-rods out of metal coat hangars. Cut a piece from a hanger that is about
20 inches long. Bend five inches at a 90 degree angle. You should have an L shaped
device at this point. The smaller segment will serve as the handle. Two of these must be
made.
2. Establish enough pressure to keep the rods pointing somewhat forward. The rods will
waiver from side to side. This is normal. Next ask yourself a simple yes or no question.
You may even direct the question to the rods. Now be alert and notice any movement in
the rods.
If the tops of your hands angle out the rods will move out and vice versa. Notice any
movement and go with it. The object here is to train yourself to recognize the response
you are having to the stimulus of a question. Repeat this until your response is clear in
both the positive and negative. You have just learned a simple form of divination. You
can now ask yourself yes or no questions that you don't know the answers to.
Remember though that if you have a strong opinion about it your answer may be
clouded.
3. Set up a subject. This can be an inanimate object or a plant but a person is preferred.
Stand 15 ft away and clear your mind. Imagine that as you approach the subject the
rods are repelled by its aura. (I usually demonstrate this part so that the student can see
that something is definitely happening) Now walk toward the subject slowly. As soon as
the rods begin to move slow down almost to a stand still and back up. This is the
beginning of your zone of sensitivity. As the rods begin to move be aware of any
physical sensations you may feel. Most people feel a mild pressure or heat at the solar
plexus. You may even feel the beginnings of an upset stomach. Whatever the
sensation, pay close attention to it. Approach the subject again and feel the sensation
deeply. The rods will begin to move more quickly as you become more aware of your
bodies responses. The rods will spread apart or move together as you approach the
subject. When the rods point away from each other or toward each other begin to walk
in a circle around the subject. Face the subject as you do this and the rods will move to
conform to the shape of the subjects aura.
4. There are many variations to this exercise. You can ask the subject to try projecting
her aura and watch as the rods respond or you can find people and things that you
cannot physically see. Work with this until your confidence is high. Let others perform
the exercise to remove any self doubt. It is easy to convince yourself that you are
fudging things.
5. As you become more practiced, thinking of the subject will sometimes be enough to
generate a response.

8
EXERCISE # 2
1. First relax. Put your arms apart with palms facing forward. Now shift your awareness
to your hands. Concentrate on the feelings in your hands. As you become aware of
each finger, relax them. You are now ready to begin.
2. Begin moving your hands together in front of you. This movement should be very
slow. The object here is to move as slowly as possible so that any sensations can be
felt clearly. As your hands move together notice any increases in heat or pressure. As
they get closer together (about 2.5 ft) you may feel as if there is a slight increase in air
pressure between them.
You may also feel a warm sensation. Stop the movement and reverse just as slowly
until the sensation fades, then repeat. You should be able to encounter the sensation at
roughly the same distance each time you try it.
3. Find the sensation zone again. This time Imagine that the sensation is cause by a
ball of energy or perhaps a ball of air. Move your hands around this ball slowly. You will
probably feel the texture of it as it passes across your fingers. At this point if you
continue pushing your hands closer together the pressure and heat will increase. This is
a method I use to gather localized energy for healing.
Once you have become comfortable with your ability to feel the ball of energy, run the
finger of your right hand across the palm of your left hand without touching. You can feel
a sort of tickle as your auric finger passes through the physical and auric palm of your
left hand. Find a partner and try feeling each others auras.
EXERCISE 3: IMAGING THE AURA
GOAL- In this exercise you will learn to "see" the aura. This is for some the most difficult
exercise but with persistence you can open your eyes to a new world.
1. First you must become aware of your center of visual awareness. This step may be
difficult to grasp but don't worry. A firm grasp of this step will help speed your progress
but it is not necessary to see the aura. Pick an object at some distance from you. A
picture on a wall is a good start. Now look at the object. Notice the shades and textures
of the object.
Imagine all of this information streaming its way from the object to you. The point at
which this information flow enters your body is your eyes. Imagine this information
entering your eyes, and spend some time feeling this flow. This is your physical center
of visual awareness. Now close your eyes and image the object in your minds eye. As
you close your eyes you will notice a shift in the location of the spot at which the
information flow enters you. Most people notice the shift upward to a point centered on

9
the forehead about an inch above eye level. If your shift is to somewhere else that's
fine. Open your eyes and close them several times. Each time notice the shift. This new
location is your center of spiritual visual awareness.
2. Next you should find a plant . The living aura is generally easier to see. Place the
plant at least five feet from you in front of a dark, uniform background. Find a quiet place
to do this, free from distraction. Spend sometime with the plant before you begin.
Stroking and touching the plant will add to its aura and make for easier viewing.
3. Look at the plant. Enjoy its beauty. Take time to notice the colors and textures of the
plant. As you take in the beauty of the plant, let your eyes go slightly out of focus. Look
slightly off to the side of the plant and shift your visual center up. You may see a faint
green light that looks like and afterimage. The aura may also appear like heat distortion
around the edges of the plant. The aura will probably follow the general shape of the
plant and be about 1 to 3 inches deep.
4. If you fail to see just keep trying. With an open mind and determination anyone can
do it. If you have seen the aura then apply the technique to other objects and people.
One exercise I particularly like is to look up into the sky on a clear day. Soon using the
upper visual center you will see tiny squiggles darting around the sky. They usually
have a small dot in their centers and will jump with every blink of your eyes. This is
known as Orgone or Chi. It is what I refer to as the UEF. Congratulations and welcome
a new world of dynamic energy and interaction.
THE CHAKRAS
SEVEN CHAKRAS
A consists of a spiritual body, and this spiritual body is composed of vibrations of part
from the physical body a human being light which are structured in a way so that they
create different centers. These centers are each structured in a beautiful pattern, and
they are located as follows:
THE ROOT OR BASE CHAKRA
The root chakra, or the center at the end of the spine by the loins, is the center which
radiates a white, divine light, when seen from the highest spiritual level. This center is
the center for the material life, it is the center that roots the subtle divine consciousness
in the material life. Consequently it is the basis for human existence in this physical

10
world, and if it is blocked, you will have a human being that feels rootless in both his
spiritual and his physical existence.
Every human being has a joint physical and spiritual existence. The karmic
development causes an oscillation between the spiritual and the physical dimensions,
and when this process goes of positively, then you feel equally at home in both places,
and feel that you are able to do what you have to do in both places. The root chakra
makes you able to manifest your existence wherever you are, and its delicate white light
emits vibrations that has to do with mother's love. In mother's love the physical and the
spiritual existence is united in a sublime way. In this form of love, where you e.g. can
imagine a woman nursing her baby, the demands of the physical world are united with
the highest form of spiritual love.
That is why this event is so important for human beings, and therefore it is important
that the period of nursing is not shortened, for in this period both the mother and the
child will have stimulated, developed, and cleansed their root chakras, and this gives
the newborn child the possibility for a basic development, which is far beyond any other
educational means.
When the mother nurses her child, the lights from their root chakras are united, and
their energies are mixed together; thereby the bond, which the child needs to have to
the Earth, to the material life, is strengthened, making the separation from the spiritual
realms, from which it recently has left, easier.
If the period of nursing is shortened unnecessarily, or if it is completely omitted, then
what can happen is, that the child cannot accept that it had to part from the spiritual
realms, and it may become restless. Many children today suffer from what is called
hyperactivity, and this is due to a restlessness, which originates from this.
When the energies or vibrations from two people's chakras are mixed, the following
takes place: the light waves from the one chakra affects the light waves from the other
chakra, and depending of the purity of the chakras, these light waves are mixed in a
way, so they create different figures. If you look at two people, e.g. a mother and a child,
who have the lights from their root chakras mixed, you may see delicate figures which
looks like white flowers or white crystals. If the contact is positive - if e.g. the mother is
nursing her child with love, or at least with a positive will to feed the child - then beautiful
figures may appear, and the figures created by the light waves from the chakras
become more beautiful, the more love there is between the parties.
This was some more general information about the mixing of vibrations from two
chakras. But now to the other main chakras.

11
THE SEX OR HARA CHAKRA
The sex chakra radiates a purple light, when seen from the highest level. Purple is a
vivid pink, or red-violet, bright red-violet, color. When this chakra is clean, then the
person think only positive thoughts, then no impure thoughts or feelings can penetrate.
With impure feelings and thoughts I mean egoistic and malicious.
When we from the spiritual dimensions talk about the concepts pure or impure, this is
what we mean, and nothing else. But because it is the sex chakra that stands for purity
and the pure purple light, and because there has been a lot of taboos about sex, then
things have been mixed up, and it has been said, that sex in itself is impure. It is by no
means, sex is only impure, if it is practiced for solely egoistic reasons, and/or by hurting
others. Sadism and masochism are impure varieties of sexual behavior, here one is
hurting others to satisfy oneself, or one forces others to hurt oneself, thereby forcing a
karmic burden upon someone else.
When two people make love, then the lights from their sex chakras are mixed, and the
purple light waves are creating figures, whose beauty also in this case depends on the
love between the parties. Two people, who really love each other, create a fantastic
aura around them when making love - it can be compared to a purple forest of fairytale
trees, whose flowers and leaves create an arc above the lovers, which has so powerful
vibrations, that a lot of negative karma can be burned away. In other words, just by
loving another person and showing it by sexual behavior which pleases and satisfies,
one can develop very much personally and in the end thereby also spiritually.
But all this implies, that there is love between the two, and it implies that there is a will to
give instead of demanding - that they both at any time are prepared to give up egoistic
demands in flavor of giving to the other.
The purity that is reflected in ones consciousness when the sex chakra is clean means,
that one lives a positive life, a life without complaining and reproaching to others, a life
where one lives in accordance with the truth of life: that one is creating ones own
consciousness - either as a positive or a negative impression of the world that one lives
in.
THE SOLAR PLEXUS CHAKRA
This chakra is radiating a blue-violet light, and also a golden light. When the solar
plexus is pure, then one is at peace with others, then one lives a life without conflicts,
where all relations are positive, and all conflicts are stopped and transformed into
exiting confrontations, where one is learning instead of fighting.
When e.g. two people are quarreling, then the blue-violet light from the solar plexus
chakra is turning dark, and the way that the lights from the two chakras are mixed is

12
characterized by negativity. Different figures can be seen here, e.g. it is common to see
small blue-violet ogres over people who are quarreling. The darker the blue-violet light
is, the more hate is there between the two, and when it turns dark enough, it turns into
black, and a blockage may arise in the solar plexus center in one or both of them. I will
point out the difference between a quarrel and a confrontation, for also within this area
some rather confusing conceptions has slipped in, which have had some quite
important consequences for the people here on Earth.
To quarrel means to make war, which means that one attacks, feels ill-treat, complains,
attack again etc.. But a conflict may also result in a confrontation, where you do not
quarrel, but where each of the parties from their own point of view explains what they
feel about the actual conflict or disagreement, what they mean about the situation, but
without attacking the other part. In different kinds of therapy confrontations in a
cultivated form are being used, and I can mention, that here the talk is about "I" and
"you" messages.
I-messages are those that are used in a pure confrontation, whiled you-messages are
used in quarrellings, in verbal wars. If one restricts oneself to point out where one
stands oneself, humbly and prepared to solve the conflict, then one has expressed ones
love, and the whole thing can be lead into a direction where the parties come to an
agreement, because they both are willing to solve the conflict without attacking one
another.
Over the years things has got mixed up, actually in a completely similar way as they
have within the sexual area, and any kind of confrontation has been taboo, which has
been very detrimental to one and all. If you have a conflict with another person, then
you do not solve it by simply denying it. I must be worked through in a confrontation,
where first of all the energies from the solar plexus center are activated, and first then
the problem is repealed and solved. Unsolved problems in our relations to other people
manifests as muscle tensions, or as blockages in many different areas, this is quite an
individual matter. Within many kinds of group-therapy, e.g. within the different branches
of [gestalt?] therapy, there is emphasis on finishing events between people in a correct
way.
THE HEART CHAKRA
This chakra is the most important of them all, because it contains the seed for the ability
to feel divine, pure love for everyone and everything.
Pure love is love that is devoid of egoism, of calculation, of any kind of demand. When
two people who love each other purely are together, then figures quite beyond
description are created above them, e.g. like a rose-pink rainbow, shining in al the most
beautiful rose-pink colors, and rose-pink flowers of all shades can be seen, as rose-pink
is the color of this chakra.

13
Pure love is the most important quality in a human being, anything else is subordinate.
Any intellectual knowledge about this or that is completely subordinate the ability to feel
love.
Love is what God demands his children to learn, and it is the only real demand for
spiritual development. Any technique, any kind of control, any intellectual knowledge is
subordinated the law of love. God is pure love, and the most principal duty for his
children on their journey back to him/her is to learn to feel this pure love for others.
Because love is also the creative aspect in life, many negative things has happened in
those societies, where there have been an emphasis on the intellectual and
academicals knowledge. Here much has been lost, and countless people have had their
development amputated, because their creativity has been stifled in the years of growth,
and thereby their ability to love.
To work creatively does not only mean to paint or to write, there are lots of ways in
which to work creatively. Common to them all is that one uses ones ability to create -
the power that manifests through ones hands or mouth - and that one has opportunities
for development of this discharge of energy.
The educational system in the so-called civilized countries on Earth has been
amputated though the demands for intellectual affectivity, and thereby many a heart
chakra has been blocked over the years.
Now when talking so much about blockages in the chakras here in the first chapter, I will
hurry to add, that there is no reason to despair because of this, for life is arranged so
suitable, that one begins to clear and cleanse all the blockages one has developed, as
soon as one makes the decision that one wants to be cleansed. One can then do
different things in order to ease the process, like meditating, or practicing yoga or other
bodily techniques. One can even get rid of many blockages by swimming regularly,
because water has healing powers.
Therefore: if you want to get rid of the blockage in your heart chakra, then do not
despair; of course it will take some time before your prayer will be granted, but it will
happen sooner or later as you wish, especially because it is a positive wish, and
because you will receive help from the spiritual dimensions to have your wish fulfilled. In
a later chapter I will delve deeper into different methods for cleansing yourself.
THE THROATH CHAKRA
This chakra radiates a blue light, when seen from the highest level - a clear blue color,
not light blue, but a clear blue color, like the sky on a clear summer day.

14
When the throat chakra is clean, then one feels an inner, completely unshakable peace;
one feels strong, no matter the circumstances. Not a strength that has to do with power,
but a strength that springs from resting in oneself, a resting in ones higher, or divine
self.
When two people mix the energies from their throat chakras, they talk together actively
and intensely. If one or both is trying to dominate, then the joint blue color turns dark,
and figures appears which looks like small ogres or witches, and also power-symbols,
like weapon of all kinds, may appear.
When two people mix the energies from their throat chakras, without the desire for
dominating each other, then the most beautiful blue color appears, and within this color
symbols for strength and solidarity, like e.g. a beautiful sword which protects the two
against the dark forces, may appear. Also humorous figures, like laughing fairies, can
be seen, for when there are no dark manifestations of power in the contact with another
persons throat chakra, then there is humor.
Humor is one of the most important of Gods qualities, and he/she likes to see, that
his/hers children really understand this and live in accordance with it. Within most
religions the higher spiritual doctrines and textbooks are devoid of humor, this is simply
an error, and this is also going to be corrected now. Of course it may be a bit difficult to
bring humor into the highest wisdom, but it is actually dangerous not to, for humor can
to some degree protect against the kind of darkness, which tries to gain power through
the contact with human beings' throat chakras. Therefore: a good joke, when the
conversation becomes a bit unpleasant, that is a good idea. This is what is meant when
we say that humor is disarming.
THE THIRD-EYE OR BROW CHAKRA
This chakra, which is also called the third eye, is located right between the eyebrows on
the forehead. It is the center for clairvoyance, visions, and transcendence of time and
space in thinking. It radiates a clear, green light, and people who have begun to develop
the ability so see more than most people, have a shining ball located in the area of this
chakra. This ball protects, and draws energy into the brain.
When two people mix the energies from their third-eye chakras, then it may happen,
that their clairvoyance increases. If they both are relatively pure in this center, their
understanding of different things will be increased considerably, and figures appear
around them, which are shining green and beautiful. With very clear people there may
e.g. be seen a ring showing the whole story of creation, with a deep understanding of
what has happened to him and the other within the whole dimension of time, all at once.
It can be seen directly here from the spiritual dimensions, what the one or the other
understands of all this.

15
If one or both have an unclean third-eye chakra, then the green color turns dark and
muddy, and misconceptions and limitations in time and space appear, and also these
can be seen from the spiritual dimensions. It is quite a lot we here from the spiritual
dimensions can see, when two people meet. All this means, that especially third-eye
problems are very easily mutually intensified, and that means, that if two people are
married, and the one has a very unclean third-eye chakra, then the other must be
careful not to be affected by all the things that comes from there. Therefore problems
with the third-eye chakra are very often the reason for divorces, because this is
intuitively felt by the one with the cleanest third-eye chakra.
I am not saying this to invite people to get divorced, but I will add, that if ones chakras
are relatively clean, and one is somewhat aware that one is on the way to spiritual
enlightening, then one also knows how to protect oneself against unwanted influence.
This is very simple, as one simply asks God for protection - if necessary one can ask for
a more permanent ring of protection, and if one is especially concerned about ones
third-eye chakra, then one can ask for a special protection of this area.
THE CROWN CHAKRA
This chakra is the chakra that is the most penetrable for light, and its color is yellow and
golden. It represents wisdom, a deep and all-embracing wisdom. When this chakra is
clean, then one knows everything, understands everything - nothing is obscure
concerning life, Gods will, and creation.
When two people mix the energies from their crown chakras, the throat chakra is often
involved because they talk together, and this means, that the light from the crown
chakra and the throat chakra are often mixed. But if the crown chakras are clean, then it
is relatively unimportant if they have a verbal dialogue, for then the yellow light will
reach the other telepathically, i.e. a silent transference of wisdom from the one to the
other will take place, and no words will be necessary. Many will probably know this all
too well from personal experiences, where they understand another person completely,
without words. But wisdom can also be transferred from the one to the other e.g.
through the eyes.
When a person has a very clean crown chakra, the yellow light turns into a soft, golden
light, which wraps the person in an aura, that has a most beautiful and excellent
influence on others. Because the crown chakra is the chakra that is the most penetrable
for light, it is very important to cleanse it, and that can be done in different ways, which I
will go into details with later.
When two people talk together, and their crown chakras are blocked, a very unpleasant
color, a muddy, dark curry color appears, which is very easy to percept for sensitive
people. A tingling and prickling sensation is felt in the crown, ones head feels

16
uncomfortable, and therefore it is important to protect oneself, when being together with
people, whose crown chakras radiates these energies.
When two people whose crown chakras are unclean unite, then all kinds of
misconceptions appear that has to do with limitations, limitations in time and space, the
conception that one only live once, then one is wiped out, and whatever is connected
with these concepts. It is certainly not amusing here from the spiritual dimensions to
watch all the things that appear, when e.g. a group of people are gathered in a circle,
and their crown chakras run amuck and create all these misconceptions and the most
grotesque symbols of limitation. But now that I have just talked about humor, then I will
add, that it sometimes can be quite comical to see some divine, eternal beings, sit and
use a lot of time to convince each other that the only live once, that 70 years on Earth is
their measured time, and then no more. It is an incredible amount of energy that
sometimes is wasted this way.
THE RELATIONS BETWEEN THE CHAKRAS
In the information given above the 7 main chakras are described separately, but when
two people meet, then obviously certain energy connections will appear, which has to
do with their special relationship, their karmic connections, their mutual blockages, and
the mutual harmony and love between them.
The energy from the 7 chakras do however run through certain patterns, which I will try
to explain in the following. Each chakra consists as I said of a bunch of light, a
concentration of vibrations, and when two people meet, then these vibrations often
follow this pattern: it starts with that the energies from the throat chakras are mixed, but
often a contact is first established between the crown chakras via eye-contact.
The energy then flows between them, and if there is a basis for further contact, then the
light from these two chakras activate both the heart and the solar plexus chakras. From
the spiritual dimensions two people look like shining rainbows, where the colors are
changing and circling around in many different ways, and when they meet then the
colors from their chakras are mixed, and when the first two colors are mixed then they
move further on, often to the heart chakra, where the rose-pink light then either is
increased or decreased, according to the course of the events, and then the energy is
activated in solar plexus, then in the sex chakra, and finally in the root chakra.
Consequently, when two people meet, the energy often travels from the crown chakra
and then down through the chakras, and when a full contact is established, the united
energy will begin to behave in a very beautiful manner.
It will begin to form a unit between the two, which it does by circulating through both
people's chakras in a way, so that it travels in and out of the chakras with their different
colors, then the colors are mixed to form a white light, which, if it can circulate
somewhat unhindered, will begin to circulate round through all the chakras in a larger

17
movement in a figure of eight: from one persons root chakra and up through the
chakras, and then down to the others persons root chakra and up through the chakras,
and so on. Both within the single individual, and within both people in their mutual
contact, there are vibrations, or light from their chakras, with the color of the individual
chakras, and then, when the light is mixed, turning into white or bright and appearing as
a superior energy flow either around the individual or both of them.
All of this may be a bit difficult to imagine, and actually it is quite a lot that happens in
the individual and between the two parties in close contact with each other, when seen
from the spiritual dimensions.
What is meditation?
The basic idea generally associated with why people meditate is that during our day we
are constantly subjected to sensory input and our minds are always active in the
process of thinking. We read the newspaper, study books, write reports, engage in
conversation, solve problems, etc. Typically, as we do these normal activities we
engage in a constant mental commentary, sort of an inner "The Drama of Me." Usually
people aren't fully aware of all the mental thought activity that we are constantly
engaged in.
Meditation allows all this activity to settle down, and often results in the mind becoming
more peaceful, calm and focused. In essence, meditation allows the awareness to
become 'rejuvenated'.
Meditation can be considered a technique, or practice. It usually involves concentrating
on an object, such as a flower, a candle, a sound or word, or the breath. Over time, the
number of random thoughts occurring diminishes. More importantly, your attachment to
these thoughts, and your identification with them, progressively become less. The
meditator may get caught up in a thought pattern, but once he/she becomes aware of
this, attention is gently brought back to the object of concentration. Meditation can also
be objectless, for example consisting of just sitting.
Experiences during meditation probably vary significantly from one individual to another,
or at least if different techniques are involved. Relaxation, increased awareness, mental
focus and clarity, and a sense of peace are the most common by-products of
meditation. While much has been written about the benefits of meditation, the best
attitude is not to have any expectations when practicing. Having a sense of expectation
of (positive) results is likely to create unnecessary strain in the practice.
As well, since meditation involves becoming more aware and more sensitive to what is
within you, facing unpleasant parts of oneself may well be part of meditation.
Regardless of the experience, the meditator should try to be aware of the experience
and of any attachment to it.

18
Failure to experience silence, peace of mind, mental clarity, bliss, or other promoted
benefit of meditation is not in itself a sign of incorrect practice or that one can't
concentrate properly or concentrate enough to be good at meditation. Whether one
experiences peace or bliss is not what is important. What is generally considered
important in meditation is that one is regular with their meditation -every day- and that
one make a reasonable effort, but not strain, to remain with the object of concentration
during the practice. With regular practice one inevitably acquires an increased
understanding of and proficiency with the particular meditation technique.
Some people use the formal concentrative meditation as a preliminary step to practicing
a mindfulness meditation during the day where one tries to maintain a calm but
increased awareness of one's thoughts and actions during the day.
For some people, meditation is primarily a spiritual practice, and in some cases the
meditation practice may be closely tied to the practice of a religion such as, for example,
Hinduism or Buddhism.
How is meditation different from relaxation,
thinking, concentration or self-hypnosis?
Relaxation: Relaxation is a common by-product of meditation. Relaxation itself can
assume many forms, such as taking a hot bath or reclining in the Lazy-boy and
watching tv, etc. Meditation is an active process where the meditator remains fully
aware of what the awareness is doing. It also attempts to transcend the thought process
whereas many forms of relaxation still engage the thought process. Meditation allows
the body to relax and can offset the effects of stress both mentally and physically to a
potentially much greater degree than passive relaxation.
Thinking: Thoughts generally consume energy in the process of their formation.
Constant thought-activity, especially of random nature, can tire the mind and even bring
on headache. Meditation attempts to transcend this crude level of thought activity.
Through regular practice one becomes aware that they are not their thoughts but that
there is an awareness that exists independent of thought. Descartes ("I think, therefore I
am") obviously was not a regular meditator!
Concentration: Meditation begins with concentration, but after an initial period of
concentration, thought activity decreases and keeping the awareness focused becomes
more spontaneous. At this point the person may or may not continue to employ the
object of concentration.
Self-hypnosis: Self-hypnosis, like meditation, involves at least an initial period of
concentration on an object. However in hypnosis one does not try to maintain an
awareness of the here-and-now, or to stay conscious of the process. Instead one
essentially enters a sort of semi-conscious trance.

19
What are the different meditation techniques?
Meditation involves concentrating on something to take our attention beyond the
random thought activity that is usually going on in our heads. This can involve a solid
object or picture, a mantra, breath, or guided visualization.
Typical objects employed include a candle flame or a flower. Some people use pictures,
such as a mandala - a highly colored symmetric painting - or a picture of a spiritual
teacher in a high meditative state. Mantras are sounds which have a flowing, meditative
quality and may be repeated out loud or inwardly. The breath is also a common focal
point. Finally, guided visualization is also considered by some to be a form of
meditation. A guided visualization can help to bring one into a meditative state; also,
visualization may be used once a meditative state has been reached to produce various
results.
MEDITATION EXERCISES
Air Meditation
It is dawn. I find myself in a forest filled with Aspen trees. I raise my eyes and look for
the sky, but the boughs looming overhead hide it from my view. As I look up, feel the
cool breeze of spring brush my face, and hear the sound of the rustling leaves.
Blowing, laughing from the east, Eurus brings thoughts of renewal and life. I follow the
wind further into the soft shadows of the forest, inhaling deeply the strong scent of the
trees. I smell, too, the wafting hints of fragrant incense.
I follow where my senses lead me and come to a small clearing circled by burning
censers filled with sweet-smelling oils. Toward the east end of the circle is a staff. I
walk over to the place and sit on the ground before it. I take the staff into my hands and
close my eyes. First come swirling colors of white then yellow then fading darker into
lavender. Then, out of the swirling fog of colors come dozens of small, lithe figures who
swirl around as if carried on the wind itself. They dance around my head and body,
swirling around as if caught in a dance to unheard music. Then, taking my attention
from the spirits of the air, I look up to find further figures emerging from the mist.
First comes a woman with the beauty of the dawn. As she steps forward, each of the
four winds, in turn, hasten from around here and fly, one to each of the four corners of
the earth. As she fades, there comes another whose form seems insubstantial, and
seems to constitute both the image of a woman and a cow at the same time. I look
closely the attempt to solidify one form, but I cannot. As this image fades, I am
presented with the forms of two women who immediately remind me of the nighttime
sky. One glows with the pale light of the full moon, and her eyes hold the fullness of
hidden knowledge. The other, whom also seems to radiate cool starlight, seems to
embody the possibilities of many lifetimes. In due course, these figures too fade and I

20
am left with only the mist of the elemental world of air. Suddenly, three male figures
issue from the mist. They seem to be three aspects of one man, but each's attributes
differ. The first glows with the light of the moon, seeming to be its protector.
The second and third appear almost identical, except that one has a winged helmet and
shoes. As I sit and study the sameness and difference of the three, they begin to fade,
as does the fog. When the mist clears, I find myself sitting within the circle still clutching
the staff in my hands. I place the staff once again on the ground and rise. I thank the
element of air, and all it is associated with for sharing with me its wisdom, and leave the
circle.
ASTRAL PROJECTION
Astral projection means projecting your consciousness (or a part thereof) to the astral
plane to view and interact with it. The astral plane is a world made of energy that can be
shaped by thought and emotion. In the astral plane, a person can create objects and
communicate with other beings, both humans and spirits. The level of danger is about
the same as normal physical life - you might run into someone who will get angry with
you for no apparent reason, but as long as you don't go looking for trouble, such
occurrences are unlikely.
How does Projection Happen?
During sleep, the energy body, also known as the etheric body or vitality sheath is put
on charge. It expands and opens in order to accumulate and store energy. The energy
body can, normally, only do this in its expanded state during sleep. Once expanded, the
chakras trickle power, in the form of etheric matter, into the energy body. During this
recharging process the astral body separates and tunes into the astral dimension where
it can create and experience dreams. If this separation is done consciously, or if you
become aware after it, you can take some control over it. It then becomes an OOBE,
astral projection or lucid dream.
Uses of Astral Projection
Astral projection is useful for practicing perceptive and creative psychic abilities,
especially telepathy. It also works as an energy source and a way to assist healing on a
soul level. It lets you explore mental concepts that don't fit into the regular world, such
as four or five dimensional space (or more).

21
Some people are able to hear music beyond anything normally heard. Some call it
angels singing; others call it music of the spheres. Exploring other people's astral
creations and creating your own can also be quite fun. Whatever you can imagine, you
can play with on the astral plane.
Soul joining is also possible on the astral plane. Because astrally you can change
shape, one possibility is to become fog- like. If several people do this, it is possible to
overlap the soul energy, and eventually the souls. This can be a very intimate
experience emotionally and nearly always creates a strong telepathic connection.
Remaining in the astral plane when doing this is difficult if you aren't already very
comfortable with projecting. For two (or more) people who are very comfortable
projecting and comfortable with each other, it can be a very joyous experience.
The Out Of Body Experience
The OOBE (out of body experience) is a real time projection close to the physical world.
This often occurs as part of a near death experience. This is where a person is knocked
out of their body as a result of some kind of severe trauma, i.e. car accident, surgery,
heart attack, child birth etc. OOBE'ers are aware of things happening in the real world,
in real time; such as conversations and events centered around, or near to, their
physical body. In many cases, these events and conversations are accurately reported
by the person after they have returned to their body.
Note: The OOBE is slightly different from astral projection or lucid dreaming because of
its real time, objective aspect. This is caused by the astral body containing a large
amount of etheric matter, which holds it close to the physical world.
There are two main causes of real time OOBE:
• 	A person's body is near death, or thinks it is, which causes a large amount of
etheric matter to be channeled into the astral body in preparation for the death
process.
• 	The person has active chakras which are doing a similar thing i.e. channeling
etheric matter into the astral body. Having active chakras can be a natural ability,
or it can be developed by training.
Note: You can project consciously, and have a real time OOBE if enough etheric matter
is generated by the chakras. In an OOBE, reality is perceived as objective (real) and
time is normal (real time).
Technically, when you project into the physical world in real time as in an OOBE, it is
really into the boundary area of the buffer zone, between the physical and astral
dimensions. If the astral body contains enough etheric matter it can exist only slightly
out of phase from reality. This means the projection is in real time and so close to the
physical dimension as to be indistinguishable from it.

22
Note: I have checked this many times, by projecting, in real time, during the day and
scouting my local area for road works, accidents, incidents etc, then verifying the
accuracy of my findings afterwards.
There are strong natural barriers to conscious, real time projection, the OOBE, in the
physical world. The amount of etheric matter generated and channeled to the astral
body, is one of them. It limits the duration of any real time projection to the degree of
chakra development and control.
The Lucid Dream
This is where a person becomes fully aware that they are dreaming during a dream.
They either take some kind of conscious control over the course of events, or they
convert the experience into an astral projection. Lucid dreaming is more similar to an
astral projection than to an OOBE, as time and reality are distorted.
Astral Projection Or Lucid Dream?
Many astral projectors black out before making a conscious exit from their body and
return to awareness in the astral dimension. You become aware after the actual
separation from the physical body and are usually already in the astral dimension. If you
miss the conscious exit from your body you are technically having a lucid dream, not an
astral projection, as you have become aware after separation.
All three types of projection are closely related, i.e., they all involve the astral body
separating from the physical and experiencing a reality separate from the physical body.
How To Use ROPE
This is a complete projection method in itself, if you have good powers of concentration.
I suggest beginners concentrate solely on this method until they have more experience.
This projection method will give you a normal astral projection. The duration of this
projection, in real time, will depend on the level of chakra development and energy flow
you have attained.
1. 	Do the relaxation exercise thoroughly, until you are completely settled. This
should only take a few minutes, don't overdo it.
2. Reach out with your imaginary HANDS and pull yourself, hand over hand, up the
strong, invisible, imaginary ROPE hanging above you. Try and imagine the feel of a
strong, thick, coarse rope in your HANDS.

23
Don't try and visualize this ROPE! I want you to imagine you are reaching out and
climbing this ROPE in the pitch dark, so you can't see it at all, you just know where it is
and can imagine the feel of it. Visualization wastes valuable mental energy that can be
better put to use exerting direct pressure on your astral body.
You will feel a slight dizzy sensation inside you as you do this, specifically in your upper
torso. This is caused by exerting dynamic pressure on the astral body. The dizzy
sensation comes from the astral body loosening. This feeling of vertigo will intensify the
more you pull on the rope.
Very Important Note: This dizzy feeling and any feelings of pressure or vertigo, etc
caused by your mental action of pulling on the ROPE MUST be carefully noted by you.
Learn the EXACT mental action you are doing to cause this vertigo. You will have to
train your mental climbing action to cause this feeling. So, the first few times you try this
ROPE method concentrate on finding the right mental action to do this. Once you learn
what it is you are doing to cause this, and can recreate it at will, you are really starting to
get somewhere.
Very Important Note: IGNORE ALL SENSATION YOU FEEL DURING PROJECTION or
it will distract you, break your concentration, and ruin your chances for projection.
Concentrate on the single act of climbing your ROPE to the TOTAL exclusion of
everything else. Put everything you have into this one action, but don't tense up, it must
be all mental.
3. Keep climbing, hand over hand, ever upward, and you will feel the heavy sensation
come over you. The pressure you are exerting on your astral body will force you into the
Trance State. Ignore this when it happens and concentrate on what you are doing.
4. Keep climbing and you will feel your chakras open in response to the pressure, don't
stop.
5. Next you will feel the vibrations start, your whole body will seem to be vibrating and
you will feel paralyzed. Concentrate, single minded, on climbing your rope, and don’t
stop.
6. Next you will feel yourself coming free of your body. You will buzz slightly as you pull
yourself out of your body. You will exit your body in the direction of your imaginary
ROPE and will be hovering above your body. You're free at last!
Note: Do NOT allow yourself to break concentration when the vibrations start. They are
a natural EFFECT caused by energy coursing through all the hundreds of major and
minor chakras in your body. If you do find yourself being distracted by this, spend more
time and effort doing the concentration exercises until you overcome this problem.
Note: If you have not mastered using your imaginary HANDS for relaxation, raising
energy and chakra work, you may have difficulty using them for climbing the ROPE.
This does not mean you have to be able to open your chakras successfully to project
using this method, you don't, it just helps if you can.

24
This method is very direct. It shortens the time needed to project dramatically! Once you
start pulling in earnest on your ROPE you WILL enter trance, your chakras WILL open,
the vibrations WILL start and you WILL project, very quickly! The speed of this method
may frighten you, the first time you try it. Everything will seem to happen TOO fast. You
will get used to this, though, and will appreciate having plenty of mental energy to use
during your projection.
If your powers of concentration are good, you have a better chance of getting out with
this method than any other, even if you haven't mastered deep relaxation and trance
skills. What is needed, apart from the ability to concentrate, is the ability to carry out
strong mental actions, without any corresponding muscular action, i.e., you have to be
able to separate mental and physical actions.
If you have trouble with any part of the ROPE method, analyze it, find the problem area,
then go back and concentrate on the related training exercises until you overcome the
problem.
How Far Can You Go?
There are NO limits to distance, destination or speed. You can travel to the most distant
galaxy. The speed of thought is infinite. It is like folding space and moving without
moving. If you can see something, you can be there....as quick as that. In comparison,
the speed of light is that of a snail. I often go out into deep space, where the galaxies
are just tiny smudges in the distance, to think and meditate. That is easy, but the trick is
getting back for a conscious reentry. Unless you have a good knowledge of astronomy,
which I do not, this is difficult. Following the silver cord, if you can see one, is not
practical at that kind of speed, though it will give you a basic direction to go in.
To return from a long distance projection, tune into your body and become aware of it.
Then try moving part of your physical body, i.e., a finger or toe. This will return you to
your body, and end the projection with full memories of the OOBE.
FUTURE WIND
There is a strange phenomenon you will come across, from time to time, while you are
projecting. I call this "Future Wind."
You will be OOBE'ing somewhere, minding your own business, when all of a sudden
you will feel an irresistible force. You will feel yourself being moved against your will,
usually backwards, by this force. You can fight it for a while but it will grow steadily
stronger until you are blown away; over the rooftops, up into the sky and....into the
future.

25
Then, after a while, you will come down in a different place....and time. Often it will be
somewhere mundane, maybe a domestic setting of some sort. You will be released
there and left to wander about... confused. You may even meet people you do not
know, yet, and they will be just as confused as you are.
This may be an actual scene out of your future life, it may be a symbolic vision, or a
mixture of both. You may be an invisible spectator to this scene, or you may merge with
your future self, and see out of your future eyes for a while.
This can also be a scene of an important future event. It could be a disaster, natural or
otherwise, or something unusual or exciting on the world scene. These type of events
usually have a lot of energy surrounding them, and this may be part of the reason for
the vision.
The only explanations I can give for this are:
1. The intervention of your higher self: For some reason it decides that now is the
time to show you something from your future.
2. Clairvoyant interference: Your Brow chakra has become clairvoyantly active and
has tuned into a future setting. Your point of consciousness is caught up by this
vision and projected into the vision.
3. A combination of both of the above - this is the most logical.
Symbolic Visions
There is another aspect of this wind that is very similar to the above but the vision you
experience is symbolic, or has a symbolic aspect, rather than an actual future event or
scene.
Note: I would like to warn you about the symbolic aspect of visions. If you don't
understand the nature of symbolism it can cause great harm to your life. This warning
applies to all clairvoyant visions in general, whether experienced in astral form or not.
Visualization Method
Decide on a place you would like to visit astrally; you may create a place if you think it
does not already exist. If you want to visit a friend's astral home, hold the image of your
friend (emotionally or visually) in your mind also.
Relax and let your mind go into a daydream state. Gently focus on the place you would
like to visit, and allow yourself to picture that place in your mind. If other thoughts
interfere, note them and then let them go and return to the picture.

26
As you relax, focus on the picture until it becomes very clear. You will use this picture as
an anchor point to return to in later projections. It serves as an easy focus point. Make
the picture clear so that you are aware of seeing, feeling, and hearing the picture,
including as many senses as possible.
Once you have an easy time maintaining your focus on the picture, change it
somewhat. Add a tree, or move things around; whatever you picture will change it in
that way. Pick up an object and resize it, change its color, change its density; then
return it to normal. Learn to reshape that area of the astral plane. Practice until you are
very comfortable doing this. Learn to change your shape, walk, fly, swim, and examine
the details of objects.
The next important step in astral projection is traveling to places other people have
created without letting preconceptions change your views of them. In some areas the
things people have created may actively maintain themselves so others can not change
them, but in the more malleable areas be aware that your thoughts can affect things.
Stay open to any information that enters your mind, no matter how odd or unrelated it
may seem to be. Some astral places are relatively normal; others are extremely odd
and may change frequently. As you examine each image, use it to bring to mind other
images also, just like a normal stream of association. Over time you will more images
more quickly, and your ability to view a larger area will increase.
Astral Projection Training
To trigger the projection of the Astral body, while fully conscious, there are four major
requirements:
Relaxing your body 100% while staying awake.
Concentrating 100% on what you are doing.
Having enough energy available.
Pressuring the astral body to separate.
Together, these four things will trigger an OOBE.
Below are exercises that will teach how to relax the body, concentrate, clear the mind,
raise energy, stimulate the chakras and enter the Trance State.
CALMING THE MIND
Relaxation
You must learn and master a full body relaxation exercise. If you know one already it
can be adapted to suit. Here is a very simple one:
Sit or lie down, and relax. Starting with the feet, tense and relax them. Continue this with
calves, thighs, hips, stomach, chest, arms, neck and face until your whole body is
deeply relaxed. Go over this a few times, making sure your muscles stay relaxed.

27
Deep physical relaxation is the key to bringing on the trance state, i.e., deep relaxation
CAUSES the trance state. Once you are in the Trance State, projection on the astral
body is relatively easy.
Contemplation
When you begin meditation, you will be plagued with thoughts from your surface mind,
which acts like a huge Memo pad. It carries messages, reminders, pressing thoughts,
problems to solve unresolved issues etc. It is constantly busy, it NEVER rests, thoughts,
thoughts, thoughts, one after the other, all clamoring for attention.
Before you attempt to clear your mind, with the breath awareness exercise below, it is
wise to deal with these surface thoughts by the act of contemplating them. Sit
comfortably, do the relaxation exercise and think, nothing more, just think. Search out
the strongest thoughts in your mind and examine them, try to resolve and understand
them. Note the word: THINKING. Contemplation does not involve clearing the mind, or
visualization. It requires you to THINK, deeply and thoroughly, about something, to gain
a deeper understanding of its nature and how it relates to you, an insight.
Breath Meditation
This is a simple form of meditation. It will clear your mind and focus your awareness.
Sit or lie down, close your eyes, do the relaxation exercise and clear your mind. Breathe
deeply and slowly and focus on the breath entering and leaving your body. Feel it
coming in and feel it going out. Focus your whole attention on your lungs and the
breathing process. This simple action is enough to occupy your surface mind. Firmly
push intruding thoughts away, as they begin, before they can gather strength and
distract you. Breath occupies the surface mind and allows you to think on a much
deeper level.
Surface Thoughts
Sounds are very distracting, they generate surface thoughts. A car horn will generate:
"Who's that, what's happening?" A door opening will generate: "Who's coming in or
going out?" The surface mind is always very curious about what is happening around
you. It wants to know all, and it wants to inform you of every little thing going on around
you. It will pressure you to open your eyes, get up and go find out what's happening.
Don't allow this to happen. USE these annoying, attention getting thoughts as a training
aide. By learning to quash and ignore them, your powers of concentration will grow.
Stop these annoying little thoughts as they begin, before they can take root and grow
into something stronger.
CONCENTRATION
You must be able to concentrate and focus completely on what you are doing. Lack of
concentration is the single, biggest cause of projection failure. It affects every aspect of
projection, from the relaxation exercise, to the Trance State and actual projection.
To test your ability to concentrate: Sit and relax. Close your eyes and clear your mind of
ALL thought. Breathe slowly and deeply and count each breath, at the end of each
exhale. Hold it totally BLANK, apart from the counting, for as long as you can. See how

28
long you can hold it like this. Be honest with yourself, every time a thought intrudes start
counting from the beginning again.
You are doing well if can do this for longer than ten breaths. Ten breaths is, however,
not long enough. Don't worry though, this can be improved on with the exercises below.
Concentration Exercise # 1
After image retention: Relax, calm your mind, and look at a candle or a light bulb. Place
this light in front of you, a couple of feet away, and stare fixedly at it for a minute or two.
Close your eyes and concentrate on the after image this will generate behind your
closed eyelids. Try and keep sight of it for as long as possible. Use breath awareness to
keep the mind clear, while you are doing this. Try and make the after image grow,
instead of fading away.
Concentration Exercise # 2
One point stare: Pick a spot on a wall and gaze at it. Don't focus on it, just gaze at it
gently. Clear your mind of ALL thoughts and forcibly hold it blank. Concentrate HARD,
on breath awareness while you are doing this. When you feel a thought beginning, push
it away, don't let it finish! Hold this for as long as you can. Do this several times a day or
more if you can.
Concentration Exercise # 3
Energy breathing: Sit and relax. Close your eyes and clear your mind. Do the breath
awareness exercise and imagine the air you are breathing IN is brightly colored energy
of your favorite color. Imagine the air you are breathing OUT is a murky gray, full of
toxic waste. This is a purification exercise. It stimulates your chakras into absorbing
energy on the inhale and getting rid of negative energy on the exhale.
Note: Try your best not to tense up while you are doing these concentration exercises, it
is ALL mental. In the beginning, it may feel as if you have to tense your mind into a tight
ball to stop it thinking, but in time you will find the opposite to be true. When you get
used to it, clearing the mind is VERY relaxing.
The Trance State
When you have attained a deep level of relaxation and mental calmness, you will feel
your body begin to get very, very heavy. This heaviness is the main symptom of your
brain waves changing from the Beta to the Alpha level as you enter a trance. The
Trance State is caused by deep physical and mental relaxation. There is nothing weird
or supernatural about it. It simply means your body has entered the Sleep State while
your conscious mind is fully awake.
How to Enter A Trance
Do the relaxation exercise and calm your mind through breath awareness. Imagine you
are climbing down a ladder in the dark. Don't visualize a ladder; just imagine you can
feel yourself doing it. On the exhale, feel yourself climbing a step or two down the ladder
with your imaginary Hands (outlined below). On the inhale, feel yourself holding still on

29
the ladder. What is needed is a mental falling effect inside your mind. This changes the
level of brain wave activity from the awake level (Beta) to the asleep level (Alpha) or the
deep sleep level (Theta). Once your level of brain wave activity reaches Alpha you will
enter a trance. Keep doing this for as long as it takes. The time it takes to enter trance
will vary, depending on your experience with deep relaxation and mental calmness.
Note: Once you get the heavy feeling, stop the mental falling exercise.
If you don't like the ladder, imagine you are in a lift, feel yourself falling on the exhale
and holding on the inhale. Or, Imagine you are a feather, feel yourself floating down on
the exhale and holding still on the inhale. As I stated above, you need a mental falling
effect to lower your level of brain wave activity. This mental falling effect, when
combined with deep relaxation and mental calmness, will cause you to enter the Trance
State. Feel free to use any scenario you are familiar with to bring about this going
deeper feeling.
A trance feels like: Everything gets quieter and you feel like you are in a much bigger
place. There is a very slight humming feeling in your body. Everything feels different. It
feels a bit like putting a cardboard box over your head in the dark, you can feel the
atmosphere change. It's like everything goes fuzzy or slightly blurred. Any sharp noises,
while in trance, feel like a physical blow to the Solar Plexus.
Deep Trance
The level of trance you achieve depends greatly on your relaxation, concentration skills
and will power. To enter a deeper trance, i.e., Theta level and beyond, you has to
concentrate much more and for much longer, on the mental falling sensation aided by
breath awareness. The first level of trance, i.e., when you get very heavy, is quite deep
enough for projection. I strongly advise against forcing yourself deeper than a light
trance, until you have plenty of experience with the Trance State. How can you tell if
you are entering a deep trance? There are four very noticeable symptoms:
An uncomfortable feeling of cold that doesn't make you shiver, coupled with a steady
loss of body heat. Mentally, you will feel very odd and everything will feel extremely
slow. Your thought processes will slow down as if you had been given a strong pain
killing injection.
You will feel disassociated from your body, i.e.; a strong floating sensation and
everything will seem far away.
Total physical Paralysis.
These four things, ALL TOGETHER, signify you are entering a deep trance. Do not
mistake the mild floating sensation you sometimes get with light trance, i.e., as you
astral body comes loose. Or the slight loss of body heat from sitting still for a long time
and the mild paralysis, i.e., the heaviness, for a deep trance. The sensation of deep
trance is quite uncomfortable and unmistakable for what it is.
It is very difficult to get into the deep Trance State, as you need highly developed
relaxation, concentration and trance state skills plus lots and lots of will power and
mental energy. You will not accidentally fall into it.

30
If you are worried you are going too deep, remember this: You CAN pull yourself out of
it at any time. Concentrate ALL your will on moving your fingers or toes. Once you can
move a finger or toe, flex your hands, move your arms, shake your head, i.e., reanimate
your body; and get up and walk around for a few minutes. Falling into a deep trance
should not be a problem with these exercises.
We have seen many people in meditation groups etc, enter a light trance and not be
able to pull themselves out of it, i.e.; they float away with the Faeries. Usually some kind
person will talk them out of it or massage their wrists etc to get them to come back to
reality. This is unnecessary and is the result of lop-sided training, i.e., no concentration
or will power training. The person only THINKS they cannot come back and therefore
does not try very hard. It is also a good way of getting attention from the group.
Your mind is extremely powerful and has vast untapped resources. It can do
ANYTHING, no limits, if it is trained, conditioned and properly motivated.
Energy Body Expansion
At some point after entering the Trance State, you will feel a mild paralysis come over
you. This will soon be accompanied by a deepening vibration and a buzzing feeling all
over. You may also feel like you are huge and swollen. The paralysis, vibrations and the
huge feeling are symptoms of the energy body expanding and the astral body
loosening. This is part of the normal sleep process. The energy body expands and
opens in order to accumulate and store energy. During this, the astral body drifts free,
slightly out phase with the physical body.
Trance Familiarity
Many people blow their projection simply because they are not used to the trance state.
They think it is a briefly opened window into the Astral dimension. This is simply NOT
true. If you stay mentally and physically calm when you enter the Trance State, you can
maintain it for hours. I regularly spend several hours at a time in the Trance State. If,
when you enter trance, you think: "Yes! I've done it! I'm in a trance! Gotta hurry and get
out quick...before it stops!" You'll blow it for sure! The trance will be ended by the simple
act of getting over excited, i.e., breaking relaxation and mental calmness.
It's a good idea to spend time in the Trance State, just getting used to it, before you try
and project. Just relax, stay calm, focus on breath awareness, and hold the trance. It
won't end until you want it to. Get used to how it feels. When you are comfortable doing
this, do the energy raising and chakra stimulation exercises, below, in trance.
You do not HAVE to be in a trance to learn energy and chakra work, it just works better
in trance. Trance practice can be done lying down, but is best done in a comfortable
armchair.
Your astral body will be loose in the Trance State, so try lifting your astral arms and legs
out, one at a time. Use your HANDS to do this, as shown in the next section. Focus and
FEEL your awareness in an arm and slowly lift it free of your body. You may feel a slight
tickling or localized dizziness inside your arm or leg, as you do this. Lift your astral arm

31
up and look at it, with your eyes closed, but DOESN'T move a muscle. In this state you
should be able to see it through your closed eyelids, but don't worry if you can't, this will
come later. Lifting your astral arms free is good practice for projection. Later, you will
use these astral arms to pull your astral body free of the physical.
Tactile Imaging
Tactile imaging is a perception or FEELING of localized bodily awareness. Your hands
are very closely linked to your bodily awareness. They are intimately aware of every
part of your body. Imaginary HANDS, outlined below, is only extension of this (hand to
body) awareness. When you are asked to feel your awareness, in any part of your body,
PRETEND your hands, your real hands, are going to touch that area of your body. Then
use the awareness this generates in that area to imagine your imaginary HANDS are
there.
Keep your eyes closed and hold your hands out a foot or so in front of your face.
Concentrate, FEEL where they are and try and SEE them through the blackness behind
your closed eyes. Cross your wrists, slowly move them about, turn your hands over,
open and close your fingers. Look hard, concentrate, as if you were trying to see in the
dark, and you will see a faint moving shadow in your mind eye, where your hands and
arms are.
Close your eyes and touch the tip of your nose with the index finger of your right hand.
You'll find you can accurately put that finger on any part of your body with your eyes
closed. Try it; put your hand, your real hand, on different parts of your body like this.
You know exactly where your hands are at all times, you can sense and feel where they
are. If you observe what is happening in your mind, while you are doing this, you will
notice you become aware of the part of your body you are going to touch the instant you
make the decision to touch it.
Go over your whole body like this, getting used to the sensation of awareness it
generates in different areas of your body. What is happening is this: Part of your mind is
shifting into, and HIGHLIGHTING, the area you are going to touch, in order to guide
your hand to the exact spot. Your mind shifts part of its awareness to this spot and acts
like a homing beacon for your hand. The ability to shift your awareness into different
parts of your body like this is VITAL to energy work and this projection method.
Note: You do not have to actually visualize these HANDS, i.e., and see or imagine you
can see them. It is ALL tactile, NOT visual. You just have to be able to pretend to FEEL
them doing something, like you are rehearsing some simple action in your mind. I
originally developed this technique for blind people. Blind people cannot visualize AT
ALL, if they have been blind since birth, but they do have a very keen sense of bodily
awareness. The majority of sighted people also have great trouble with visualization of
any kind, and all projection techniques depend heavily on visualization. This being the
case, I developed a projection technique that does NOT depend on visualization to
exert pressure on the astral body to separate. It turned out to be so much easier, and

32
more successful, than the other visualization based techniques, that I discarded them in
favor of this simple tactile method.
Blind people are not blind in astral form. The astral body does not have any organs as
such; it is a point of consciousness only. The astral body you are aware of while
projecting is provided courtesy of the subconscious minds creative ability
Energy Exercise
This is a really fun one. You can even make it into a game. What you're going to do
here is to make little balls of energy and then send it to whatever you want. You can
send it to yourself, a friend, to achieve a goal, etc. Rub your hands together for about 15
seconds. This is supposed to stimulate the hand chakras. Now cup your hands
together. Start to visualize energy coming to your hands and building up in the shape of
a ball. It can be any color you want (certain colors work best for different things) but for
beginners it's usually easiest to visualize white light. Just see the energy coming from
the air around you, and slowly building up, becoming a ball of pure energy. After a
while, my hands usually start to tingle, or I can see the ball. Try to do it until you feel
your hands tingle. It might take a few times, but if you keep it up, you'll probably start to
feel it after a while.
Once you have the ball to the size you want it at, throw it with a physical movement of
your hands and visualize it going where you want it. You can simply visualize it if you
want (without moving your hands as if you are throwing it) but the physical action will
probably make it more powerful and finalized. You can send it off to anything you want,
or you can keep it a while and play with it. My friends and I usually make the energy
balls and throw it to each other for a while. They get surprised when they find out that
they can actually feel the energy landing in their hands.
Here's another method if the on above is too hard to do: You need to clear your mind,
try focusing on a flame or a picture, you know. once you think your ready, hold your
hands like your holding a ball. relax your mind completely and flex all the muscles in
your arm. then close your eyes and let the energy flow. :) after a while, you'll probably
feel your arms slowly pushing apart or perhaps tingling, heat, or, if your eyes are open
by this time, faint flashes of light. this is getting longer than i expected, so i need to wrap
it up. ;) the best conditions for beginners are a dimly lit room and a strong emotion
(anger, frightened, etc.) After a long wait I’ve seen mine! that’s it pretty much.
Meditation Technique for developing Psychic Skills
The Chakras: Much is said and taught about the chakras and secondary energy
centers. Learn all you can about energy in the body, and outside the body. learn all you
can about the aura, and how the chakras relate to it.
You must be able to identify and FEEL each chakra for this exercise.

33
For the first five minutes Relax yourself. Deeply relax and put your full, deep trust in the
holiness of Spirit. I suggest praying to Spirit for guidance and PROTECTION, before
you begin any spiritual work or exercise. BELIEVE, if you do not know, that only good
spirits are around you, loving you and protecting you. Thank them and open yourself to
them for their assistance, BY UPLIFTING YOUR SPIRIT TO THEM. It is said that if you
uplift yourself ten feet, they'll come down twenty feet to guide you.
Eight-fold Breath: Breathe in for the count of eight. Hold for the count of four. Exhale for
the count of eight. Hold for the count of four. You may also begin the breathing with
several large full breaths, all the way to the lower abdominal area. Then continue with
the eight/four/eight/four breathing. This is very relaxing, and trance inducing. It also
begins to bring you a regulated pattern of energy for the work ahead. Continue the
breathing throughout the meditation. And don't worry if you forget it for a time. Just pick
it up again and be relaxed about the whole process. This breathing can be extended
LATER ON for other types of medium ship. But for now, just do it as explained.
Beginning at the Crown chakra. [This is the opposite from what most of you are being
taught. Drawing energy upward is what is usually done. But I am showing you, simply,
what I learned. Although the other way is certainly worthy of experimentation.] So,
beginning with the crown chakra, feel it opening up and becoming charged with light
and energy by focusing and intending energy to move into it. Move to the third-eye
chakra. Open/intend/charge this. Throat chakra, the same. Heart chakra, the same. And
on down the chakras until all are open and charged up. If one is stuck, or wont
cooperate, stay on it, breathing in and out and focusing the incoming, good energy into
that chakra. Give the same amount of energy to each one, for this exercise.
Turn your attention to the place of visions, the third eye: When the chakras are all open,
and you are continuing to breathe as stated, it is time to look within. Find the place
inside your mind where you see pictures, where you day-dream. [If you have never
seen an internalized picture, this is a good time to begin. However, if I say, "apple!" How
do you know what an apple looks like? Describe it to yourself. See the apple as you
describe it to yourself. Where you see this picture inside your mind, is the place I am
referring to.] For the next FIVE MINUTES, quiet your thinking, and just practice
observing whatever may arise in this space. Do not give it any credence, do not judge
what you see. In fact be as non-judgmental as you possibly can be. Make no decisions
based on what comes. Do not get caught in a prolonged image, let it go. Do not indulge
yourself in fear, or panic about something which may seem awful . . . just bless it and
send it on its way! Try to recall that you have protected yourself and that you are loved.
CLOSE DOWN for the next five minutes. Continue the breathing. Go back down the
chakras, as before, diminishing the energy, dimming the light, so to speak, and
envisioning that you are CLOSING EACH SPIRITUAL DOOR as you do so. Do each of
the chakras in this way, until whatever is open is closed, envisioned as sealed. No spirit
activity is permitted from this point on. Reject it. Let spirit information come to you only

34
when you desire it, or want it, or permit it. Learn to condition yourself to not accept any
information coming from spirits unless you give it your okay. Once the spiritual doors
are closed, that means just that, they're closed.
Hands should be placed palms up on lap if working with spirits is desired. Palms down
on thighs, if you are trying to work on dreams, or any inner-work.
This meditation should be done with eyes closed. In the beginning with a dim light on. It
could be done in a group setting and is an excellent group meditation practice. For a
group setting I recommend a tightly closed room, no light getting in from the outseide.
Use a small red light overhead, attached to a dimmer switch, and keep turning the light
down as your eyes get used to it. In this setting, meditation can be preacticed with the
eyes open.
Be sure to enter and leave these circumstances with a loving heart and mind. One of
trust and never foreboding! Pray for protection and guidance and DEVELOPMENT!
Give your thanks to the Earth, and to the spirits who would come to you so that you may
grow.
Astral Guides
This part is about how to call a spiritual guide that helps you on your journeys.
Everyone , form the youngest child to the oldest person can and should know, and
communicate with their spirit guides.
A spirit guide is a being of light , advanced to the point where they have no need to
return to earth in the flesh anymore . These guides have been with us for centuries ,
lifetime after lifetime , and will guide us through this life, to purification when we pass on
, and they will be with us when we take our first breath if and when we return for another
lifetime .That is why it is of extreme importance that we realize that people we knew and
loved in this lifetime cannot be our guides . All souls, when they pass have to go
through a process of purification , it takes years and years to prepare them for either
another lifetime here or to pass on to another plane of consciousness. That cannot be
accomplished in one lifetime.
Many people feel loved ones near and it comforts them to think that these souls are
helping them , but unfortunately this is not the case . Perhaps in the future we will be
able to talk about our recently departed and how we can really help lost souls to find
their way . These are not evil , spirits , they are just spirits that had unfinished business,
that want to be close to loved, ones or that died through trauma and really don't know
they have passed. It is not a healthy thing to keep these souls close , they can cause us
all sorts of illness and mental maladies.

35
Then we have the evil entities , those who are either sent to us to cause us harm , or for
some reason have found us and attached themselves to us and cause us great harm
both physical and spiritual.
I tell you about all these different spirits because you must grow to recognize the FEEL
of them so that you wont make mistakes.
STEP 1 relax your entire body , make yourself comfortable with your surroundings ,
remember that nothing , will happen unless you allow it to happen .
STEP 2create a mental picture of what your main guide looks like . Feature by feature ,
characteristic by characteristic this is called seeing your guide , this takes about half an
hour , describe the picture you see mentally to yourself as thought you were describing
a person to another . By now you may notice a slight change of temperature either way ,
warm or cold.
STEP 3name your guide , after you have a complete mental picture, ask the guide
his/her name , the absolute first name that pops in your head is right . Trust your instinct
, the guide is talking to you even though you are not physically hearing them . Now your
guide has a name and you will call your guide by that name from now on. By now you
may be able to detect a faint scent and the temperature change should be more
pronounced . You are now feeling your guide. The feel of the guide should be warm and
comfortable, if it is uncomfortable in any way , stop immediately , this is NOT your
guide.
STEP 4communicate with the guide , let the guide take you to a higher plane ask him
frequent questions about your life , past lives and surroundings . Talk , Talk , Talk . Is
something just pops in your head , and you don't know where it came from , it is your
guide talking to you .
STEP 5Absolutely and completely trust your instincts , channeling is so difficult for some
because they cant believe what is happening , they think it is their imagination , and
they reject the guidance as bogus . Don't second guess yourself , your first instinct is
usually right in these matters.
DIFFERENT ASTRAL PROJECTION EXERCISES
Exercise # 1
Begin by focusing on your breathing. On the in-breath visualise peace a love, a soft
pink glow. The out-breath takes away all tension, restlessness and anxieties. Continue
in this manner for a moment...... On the in-breath visualise peace, love and tranquility,

36
a soft pink glow. The out-breath takes with it all your stored tension, restlessness and
anxieties.
Pause
(1 ½ minutes)
As you breathe in peace, love and tranquility and breathe out tension, restlessness and
anxieties you feel yourself becoming centered within. Your feet seem to feel rooted to
the ground as the energies of the Earth Mother flow directly into your body, lifting your
spirits high. Feeling one with the earth. Experience the love and knowledge given to
you from Gaia, the Earth Mother. As you feel your feet taking root in the ground, you
feel yourself being able to take your energies, nutrients and life force from the very earth
that you are connected to. The roots in your feet stretch and grow, going deeper into
the earth. As this happens you can hear the voice from Gaia, the Earth Mother. Gaia
has a very special message to give you. All you need to do is entirely give yourself to
the greater power of the universe and allow yourself to grow and blossom as your body
takes root in the earth beneath your feet. Listen carefully to Gaia's message for you......
Pause
(2 minutes)
The message that Gaia left with you will also help you to grow and blossom in your
everyday life......
Before you there is a mist rolling in around your feet. The mist brings with it a strong
powerful energy and a sense of love and security. It swirls around your body from your
feet up. As the mist swirls around you it leaves you with a numbing feeling on every
part of your body that it touches. A feeling of lightness ... floating. The mist now swirls
around your knees, feeling lighter and more relaxed... Swirling around your thighs and
buttocks you see through the mist a hazy red glow around your entire body. Going
deeper into relaxation with every passing moment. Now as the mist swirls just below
your navel you see a hazy orange glow around your body. Each colour staying around
you glowing in the mist. The mist now swirls around your solar plexus radiating a hazy
yellow glow. All the time feeling lighter and going deeper and deeper into relaxation.
The feeling of love and security are wonderful as the mist swirls up to and around your
heart as a glowing ring of brilliant green is all around you. Relaxation and lightness
spread further through your body as the mist reaches your throat area. A healing blue
radiates through the mist around you. Feeling lighter and more relaxed with every
colour and breath that you take. Your brow is now surrounded in the mist as you see a
mauve hazy glow. The mist is now over the top of your head as you see a dazzling
purple glow through the mist.
Your entire body is now completely surrounded in the mist. The sensation of complete
weightlessness flows through your being. You feel yourself rising in the air. The sense
of weightlessness transforms you feeling free ... You have never felt such freedom

37
before... As your body rises you turn your head and look below and see your body
beneath you. Observind this does not disturb you as you know that it is OK and feel
safe and secure with your new feeling of ethereal freedom. Connecting your weightless
soul to your body is a glistening silver cord. This cord cannot break while your soul is
not in your body. It will always connect you when you are travelling in the astral. You
look ahead in the direction your body is travelling and before you is an archway. This
archway can be made from anything. It may be made of shrubs, roses or stone.
Anything that presents itself to you is OK.
Through the archway you can see a place or scene materialise before you. It may be
somewhere you know and visit regularly. Or it may be from the past or even from the
future. Your being rises with the mist and you are carried through the archway. The
place or scene is getting closer and closer to you. The mist takes you directly there and
lowers you to the ground if it is safe to do so. You immediately know where you are and
possibly what year it is. There may be people there with you. If so feel free to talk to
them and ask any questions you may have. You may also want to explore your
surroundings......
Pause
(6 – 10 minutes)
It is now time to leave where you are. You turn to leave and the mist meets you. Your
body raises into the air again as the mist carries you back through the archway. All the
memories of this experience will come back with you. There is a gift waiting for you as
you levitate through the archway. A special gift just for you...
Now through the archway you see your body waiting for you, as you left it. The mist
lowers your soul back into your awaiting body. Through the mist you see the rings of
colors leaving one by one. Purple... the mist swirls lower around your body. Mauve...
The mist lowers. Blue... Green... Yellow... The mist lowering. Orange... Red...
The mist dematerializes as quickly as it materialized. Your body still feeling relaxed and
refreshed.
Astral Projection Exercise # 2
There are four main types of exercises you can use when trying to induce. They are:
• 	Relaxation
• 	Energy Balancing
• 	Mind Control

38
• 	Focus
In addition to these you can also use prayer at the beginning of the practice. Below is
described a typical practice session.
Begin by laying down on your bed with the door closed, a pillow under your knees and a
comforter over you. Most authorities on astral travel recommend that you find a place
where you will be undisturbed. Take a few moments to ground yourself *in* your body,
to relax into yourself at the moment at this particular place and time. Then you can say
a prayer that goes something like this:
"Dear God Creator, Angels and Guides from the Light:
I pray that I may leave my body in order to ......................
Please help me and protect me in this endeavor!"
Then visualize yourself surrounded with white light, and as you focus in on this light you
become absorbed in the beauty of this energy and often have some wondrous visions
and feelings of peace.
Relaxation
Then begin to focus on your feet, and in a typical relaxation exercise, move
through my body from toe to head stretching, clenching and then relaxing each
body part. Visualize energy swirling through each part of your body releasing
tension.
Energy Balancing
Then cleanse, balance and charge your chakras.
Mind Control
Then you can use a technique adapted by the author years ago from the Silva
Mind Control teachings to put your body to sleep. In your mind say: "I'm going to
count down from 3 to 1, visualizing each number on a white orb suspended in the
air above my head, and when I reach the third and final "1" my body will be
asleep and I will have no awareness of physical sensations. I will not perceive
any physical discomfort, and my consciousness will be focused on my astral
body."
Then visualize a white orb suspended in the air above your head. When you will
be mentally well-focused on the orb, visualize a number "3" on the face of the
orb. The numbers can be any color you choose. 	The important thing is to

39
create a pattern, for training your brain to react the way you desire whenever you
perform this sequence. This is the heart of the power of ritual!
Visualize the 3 three times: three number "3's" on the orb. "My body is
completely relaxed, becoming numb. I am losing awareness of physical
sensation."
Then repeat the visualization with three number "2's." "My body is asleep now. I
feel no sensations, no discomfort. I will now visualize the "1's." When I am
finished, I will have no awareness of physical sensations. My consciousness will
be in my astral body."
Then visualize the "1's" three times. "My body is now completely asleep. I have
no awareness of physical sensations. My consciousness is in my astral body."
The benefit of training your mind this way is that you can greatly accelerate the
process of transferring your awareness away from the physical body. Each time
you practice this, the programming becomes a little bit stronger,
after some time you will visualize the numbers and have your body asleep in two
or three minutes.
Focus
Once you are in this state try to clear your mind by focusing on your breath, or
the tip of your tongue, or any one thing. The key is to remain conscious while
your body is asleep. Naturally, all sorts of thoughts pull you from the focus, but
you can return as soon as you notice you've strayed to your concentration on one
thing. Your obe's can often occur after a period of focus when your mind has
drifted and has been on the verge of sleep. This is when you have awakened to
find yourself either out of the body or when the "surges" have come on. You will
often doze off when beginning practice, but take it up again when you are awake
by focusing your attention and trying to remain conscious while your body sleeps.

40
Illustrations and Examples
An example of the spirit lightly out of the body
The spirit suspended on the air over the physical body.
Sometimes it can reach this high
The arrows indicate the way followed by the spirit at the projection.
This is the position the body should get before a dream of flight

41
The Spirit projecting in vertical position insider de radio of action of the cable
Sometimes the spirit projects itself insider the radio of action of the cable, when any
negative factor goes in action, for example: an emotion or a sound, the spirit goes back
till reaching a horizontal position
Copyright © 2004 www.witchcraftexposed.com, Bogdan and Giancarlo.
All Rights Reserved
