ARS
NotoriaThe NOTORY Art of Solomon
Translated from Latin into English
By Robert Turner, 1657

Ars Notoria: The Notary Art of Solomon
Translated by Robert Turner, 1656
Transcribed and converted to Acrobat by Benjamin Rowe, July 1999
Foreword copyright 1999 by Benjamin Rowe
Typeset in Adobe Caslon

i
Foreword
At the present time, there is only one English version of the Ars Notoria; all cur-
rently-available editions of the book are based on the translation done in the 1650’s by
Robert Turner, a student of magical and astrological texts. Turner translates a Latin
version published by Agrippa fifty years earlier. While many earlier Latin versions
are referenced by scholars – some from as early as the 13th century – no one has as yet
taken the time to produce an updated English rendition of the work, or to fully com-
pare Agrippa’s version with the earlier versions.
The foundation and essence of the practices described in the Ars Notoria lies in
the figures or “notes” that give it its title. These consist partly of realistic illustrations,
partly of sigils and signs similar to other grimoires of the day, and partly of text,
which winds into and around the graphical elements. When used as objects of
contemplation (or in a more active use of visual imagination) the notes are said to
place the user’s mind in a state in which it is granted complete knowledge or skill in
one of the seven Liberal Arts. Unfortunately, Turner’s translation did not include
these figures.
Photographs of several notes can be found in Visual Art in Two Manuscripts of
the Ars Notoria, by Michael Camille, published in Conjuring Spirits: Texts and Tradi-
tions of Medieval Ritual Magic, edited by Claire Fanger, published by the Pennsylva-
nia State University Press. According to Dr. Fanger, there are at least three
stylistically distinct sets of notes to be found among the Latin manuscripts of the
Notoria. No one set is considered definitive.
The text instructs the practioner to “look into” or “inspect” the note with which
he is working several times a day, and to recite certain prayers and magickal names
during a portion of those occasions. The specific prayers and names are integrated
into the visual portion of the note in some instances, and it is not known whether
these integrated prayers are among the many translated by Turner.
What is actually meant by “inspect” is obscure. The Latin word, inspicio, has
essentially the same range of meanings as the modern English word; none of them
are informative in the context. But the text mentions several times that visions are a
part of the process of use, without explaining exactly how they are involved; and the
section quoted below suggests that something more than close examination is
intended.
And know this; that if thou hast not the books in thy hands, or the faculty of
looking into them is not given to thee; the effe of this work will not be the
lesse therefore: but the Orations are twice then to be pronounced, where
they were to be but once: And as to the knowledge of a vision, and the other
virtues which these Holy Orations have; thou maist prove and try them,
when and how thou wilt.
So it would seem that a specific skill or ability is involved, a “faculty of inspec-
tion”. Perhaps this was simply the ability to memorize the image and visualize it

ii
while reciting the orations. The monk John of Morigny, who practiced the Ars Noto-
ria to some effect, later used such visualization in his own system of religious magic.
Such techniques were generally known at the time, from various systems for improv-
ing the memory. Or possibly the technique was similar to those used by modern
magicians to obtain a vision related to a specific symbol, by using it as a “gate” in the
imagination, and entering into an astral world that embodies the meaning of the
symbol. In any case, the author of the Notoria seems confident that one can get by
without such skill if necessary; the Prayers alone, said with sufficient fervor and rep-
etition, will produce the same results.
The book is divided into three sections. The first of these deals with what the
author calls “generals”; these are abilities of broad application – memory, eloquence,
understanding and perseverance – which need to be developed before the practitioner
works to obtain the particular skills of one of the Liberal Arts. These latter he refers
to as the “specials”. The section mixes commentary with prayers that are to be used to
obtain the abilities, in a manner that is somewhat difficult to follow. (It should be
noted that only an abbreviated form of some prayers is given. )
The second section deals with the “specials”, giving prayers in sequence for each
of the Liberal Arts, in the order in which they were customarily taught. The Notes
all relate to this section of the book; each prayer is accompanied by instructions on
the use of the proper note, and some small amount of commentary.
The third section presents some prayers that were allegedly given to Solomon at
a different time than those of the previous sections. However, most of these prayers
are those already referenced in Part I, save that they are given here in full. The focus
of this section is again on the “generals”, though the technique described varies in
some respect from those previously given. Dr. Fanger and others have speculated that
this section was a variant of Part I, which perhaps had originally been circulated sep-
arately, and later incorporated in the Ars Notoria for its greater detail.
None of these sections are clearly distinguished in the text, which can lead to a
great deal of confusion as instructions in one section seem to conflict with those in
another. The start of each section has therefore been marked by a footnote.
The text of this edition was transcribed directly from a photocopy of Turner’s
first edition, published in 1657. Even by the standards of the time, the book was not a
great example of the typographer’s art; it was cheaply printed, and was clearly typeset
by three different people, each with their own notions of what constituted good text
layout, and of what constituted proper spelling of English. For the overall layout of
this edition, I have selected elements from each of their styles, but use them consis-
tently throughout the text. The punctuation, and the spelling, capitalization and
emphasis of individual words have been left as in the original. The exception is that I
have not followed the 17th-century practice of substituting the letter “f” for “s”,
believing that doing so would greatly reduce the readability of the text. The errors
that have crept into recent printed editions (particularly the edition issued by the

iii
Holmes Publishing Group) are not present, although no doubt there are new errors
of my own devising. Several elided passages have been restored.
Two additional articles present in the 1657 edition are not included here. The
first of these, A Certain Magnetick Experiment, describes a device for long-distance
communication based on an imaginary property of magnetized iron. The second, An
Astrological Catechisme, is a translation of a Latin document by Leovitius, partially
rewritten by Turner. It presents a series of questions and answers concerning astrol-
ogy and its practice.
Benjamin Rowe
June 30, 1999


Ars Notoria:
THE
N O T O R Y 	A R T
OF
S O L O M O N
Shewing the
C A B A L I S T I C A L 	K E Y
Magical Operations
The liberal Sciences
Divine Revelation, and
The Art of Memory.
Written originally in Latine, and now Englished by Robert Turner
London, Printed by F. Cottrel, and are to be sold by Martha Harison, at
the Lamb at the East-end of Pauls, 1657
{Of

2
The First Note of Grammar

3
               
The Epistle Dedicatory.
To his Ingenious and respeed friend Mr. William Ryves, of St. Saviours, South-
wark, Student in Physic and Astrology.
SIR.
he deep inspeion and dove-like piercing Eye of your apprehension into
the deepest Cabinets of Natures Arcana’s, allures me (if I had no other
attraive Magnetic engagements,) to set this Optic before your sight:
not that it will make any addition to your knowledge; but by the forti-
tude of your judgment, be walled against the art-condemning and virtue-despising
Calumniators. I know the candour of your Ingenuity will plead my excuse, and save
me from that labour; resting to be
Your real affeionate Friend,
Robert Turner.
Little Britain, die ,  in , 1656.
q

4
               
To the Ingenious Readers .
mongst the rest of the labours of my long Winter hours, be pleased to accept of
this as a flower of the Sun; which I have transplanted from the copious
Roman banks into the English soyle; where I hope it will fruitfully spread its
branches, and prove not a perishing gourd, but a continual green Laurel,
which Authors say is the plant of the good Angel, and defends all persons near its shade from
the Penetrating blasts of Thunder and Lightening, so will this be a flower fit for every
mans Garden; its virtues will soon be known, if Practised, and the blasts of vice dispersed:
its subject is too sublime to be expressed. Let not the carping Momi, nor envious black-jaw'd
Zoili rayl; let not the ignorant bark at that which they know not; here they learn no such
lesson: and against their Calumnies, the book I thus vindicate: quod potest per fidem
intelligi, & non aliter, & per fidem in eo operare potes. [illegible Greek quotation 1],
&c., Heb. 11. &c., and my own intention I thus demonstrate; Dico coram omnipotenti
Deo, & coram Jesu Christo unigento Filio ejus, qui judicaturus est vivos & mortuous;
quod omnia & singula quae in hoc opere dixi, omnesque hujus Scientiae vel artis pro-
prietates, & universa quae ad ejus speculationem pertinent, vel in hoc Volumine con-
tinenter, veris & naturalibus principiis innituntur, fuintque cum Deo & bona
Conscientia, sine injuria Christiame fidei, cum integritate; sine superstitione vel
Idololatria quacunque, & non dedeceant virum sapientem Christianum bonum atque
fidelem; Nam & ego Christianus sum, baptizatus in nomine Patris, &c. quam fidem
cum Dei auxilio quam diu vixero firmiter inviolatam tenebo; Procul ergo absit a me,
discere aut scribere aliquid Christianae fidei & puritati contrarium, sanctis moribus
noxium, aut quomodolibet adversum. Deum timeo & in ejus cultum Juravi, a quo nec
vivus nec (ut confido) mortuus separabor: This small treatise I therefore commend to all
the lovers of art and learning, in which I hope they will attain their desires, quantum a
Deo concessi erit; so that I hope I have not cast a Pearl before the swine, but set a glass
before the grateful doves.
12 March 1656
Robert Turner
1. The original handwritten Greek:
^

5
               
THE
N o t o r y 	A r t
OF
S O L O M O N .
The Notory Art revealed by the Most High Creator to Solomon.
In the Name of the Holy and undivided Trinity, beginneth this most Holy Art of
Knowledge, revealed to Solomon, which the Most High Creator by his Holy Angels
ministered to Solomon upon the Alter of the Temple; that thereby in short time he
knew all Arts and Sciences, both Liberal and Mechanick, with all the Faculties and
Properties thereof: He has suddenly infused into him, and also was filled with all
wisdom, to utter the Sacred Mysteries of most Holy words.
Alpha and Omega! Oh Almighty God, the Beginning of all things, without
Beginning, and without End: Graciously this day hear my Prayers; neither do thou
render unto me according to my sins, nor after mine iniquities, O Lord my God, but
according to thy mercy, which is greater then all things visible and invisible. Have
mercy upon me, O Christ, the Wisdom of the Father, The Light of the Angels, The
Glory of the Saints, The Hope, Refuge, and Support of Sinners, The Creator of all
things, and Redeemer of all humane Frailties, who holdest the Heaven, Earth, and
Sea, and all the whole World, in the palm of thy Hand: I humbly implore and
beseech, that thou wilt mercifully with the Father, illustrate my Minde with the
beams of thy holy Spirit, that I may be able to come and attain to the perfeion of
this most holy Art; and that I may be able to gain the knowledge of every Science,
Art, and Wisdom; and of every Faculty of Memory, Intelligences, Understanding,
and Intelle, by the Vertue and Power of thy most holy Spirit, and in thy Name.
And thou, O God my God, who in the Beginning hast created the Heaven and the
Earth, and all things out of nothing; who reformest, and makest all things by thy
own Spirit; compleat, fulfil, restore, and implant a sound understanding in me, that I
may glorify thee and all thy Works, in all my Thoughts, Words, and Deeds. O God
the Father, confirm and grant this my Prayer, and increase my Understanding and
Memory, and strengthen the same, to know and receive the Science, Memory, Elo-
quence, and Perseverance in all manner of Learning, who livest and reignest, World
without end. Amen.

6
Here beginneth the first Treatise of this Art, which Master Apollonius calleth, The
Golden Flowers, being the generall Introduction to all the Natural Sciences; and this is
Confirmed, Composed, and Approved by the Authority of Solomon, Manichaeus, and
Euduchaeus.
I, Apollonius, Master of Arts, duly called, to whom the Nature of Liberal Arts hath
been granted, am intended to treat of the Knowledge of Liberal Arts, and of the
Knowledge of Astronomy; and with what Experiments and Documents, a Compen-
dious and Competent Knowledge of Arts may be attained unto; and how the highest
and lowest Mysteries of Nature may be competently divided, and fitted and applied
to the Natures of Times; and what proper dayes and hours are to be eleed for the
Deeds and Aions of men, to be begun and ended; what Qualifications a man ought
to have, to attain the Efficacy of this Art; and how he ought to dispose of the aions
of his life, and to behold and study the Course of the Moon. In the first place there-
fore, we shall declare certain Precepts of the Spiritual Sciences; that all things which
we intend to speak of, may be attained to in order. Wonder not therefore, at what you
shall hear and see in this subsequent Treatise, and that you shall find an Example of
such inestimable Learning.
Some things which follow, which we will deliver to thee as Essayes of wonderful
Effes, and have extraed them out of the most Ancient Books of the Hebrews;
which, where thou seest them, (although they are forgotten, and worn out of any
humane Language) nevertheless esteem them as Miracles: For I do truly admire the
great Power and Efficacy of Words in the Works of Nature.
Of what Efficacy Words are.
There is so great Virtue, Power and Efficacy in certain Names and Words of God,
that when you read those very Words, it shall immediately increase and help your
Eloquence, so that you shall be made Eloquent of Speech by them, and at length
attain to the Effes of the powerful Sacred Names of God; but from whence the
power hereof doth proceed, shall be fully demonstrated to you in the following
Chapters of Prayers: And those which follow next to our hand, we shall lay it open.
An Explanation of the Notary Art.
This Art is divided into two parts: the first containeth general Rules, the second spe-
cial Rules. We come first to the special Rules, that is, First, to a threefold, and then
to a fourfold Division: And in the third place we come to speak of Theologie; which
Sciences thou shalt attain to, by the Operations of these Orations, if thou pronounce
them as it is written: therefore there are certain Notes of the Notary Art, which are
manifest to us; the Virtue whereof Humane Reason cannot apprehend. The first
Note hath his signification taken from the Hebrew; which though the expression
thereof be comprehended in a very few words; nevertheless, in the expression of the
Mystery, they do not lose their Vertue: That may be called their Vertue, which doth
happen and proceed from their pronunciation, which ought to be greatly admired at.

7
The first Precept.
Hely, Scemath Amazaz, Hemel, Sathusteon, hheli Tamazam, &cet. which Solomon enti-
tled, His First Revelation; and that to be without any Interpretation: It being a Sci-
ence of so Transcendent a purity, that it hath its Original out of the depth and
profundity of the Chaldee, Hebrew, and Grecian Languages; and therefore cannot
possible by any means be explicated fully in the poor Thread-bare Scheme of our
Language. And of what nature the Efficacy of the aforesaid words are, Solomon him-
self doth describe in his Eleventh Book, Helisoe, of the Mighty Glory of the Creator:
But the Friend and Successor of Solomon, that is, Apollonius, with some few others, to
whom that Science hath been manifested, have explained the same, and defined it to
be most Holy, Divine, Deep, and Profound Mysteries; and not to be disclosed nor
pronounced, without great Faith and reverence.
A Spiritual Mandate of the precedent Oration.
Before any one is to reade or pronounce any Orations of this Art, to bring them to
Effe, let them always first reverently and devoutly rehearse the Prayer in the begin-
ning.
If any one will search the Scriptures, or would understand, or eloquently pro-
nounce any part of Scripture, let him pronounce the words of the following Figure,
to wit, Hely Scemath, in the morning betimes of that day, wherein thou wilt begin any
work. And in the Name of the Lord our God, let him diligently pronounce the
Scripture proposed, with this Prayer which follows, which is, Theos Megale; And is
mystically distorted, and miraculously and properly framed out of the Hebrew, Greek,
and Chaldee Tongues, and it extendeth itself briefly into every Language, in what
beginning soever they are declared. The second part of the Oration of the second
Chapter, is taken out of the Hebrew, Greek, and Chaldee; and the following Expos-
tion thereof ought to be pronounced first, which is a Latine Oration: The third Ora-
tion of the three Chapters, always in the beginning of every faculty, is first to be
rehearsed.
The Oration is, Theos Megthe, in tu yma Eurel, &cet..
This sheweth, how the foregoing Prayer is expounded: But although this is a
particular and brief Expostion of this Oration; yet do not think, that all words are
thus expounded.
The Exposition of this Oration.
Oh God, the Light of the World, Father of Immense Eternity, Giver of all Wisdom
and Knowledge, and of all Spiritual Grace: most Holy and Inestimable Dispenser,
knowing all things before they are made; who makest Light and Darkness: Stretch
forth thy Hand, and touch my Mouth, and make my tongue as a sharp sword, to
shew forth these words with eloquence; Make my Tongue as an Arrow eleed to
declare thy Wonders, and to pronounce them memorably: Send forth thy holy

8
Spirit, O Lord, into my Heart and Soul, to understand and retain them, and to
meditate on them in my Conscience: By the Oath of thy Heart, that is, By the
Right-hand of thy holy Knowledge, and mercifully inspire thy Grace into me; Teach
and instru me; Establish the coming in and going out of my Senses, and let thy
Precepts teach and corre me until the end; and let the Counsel of the most High
assist me, through thy infinite Wisdom and Mercy. Amen.
The words of these Orations cannot wholly be Expounded.
Neither think, that all words of the preceding Oration can be translated into the Lat-
ine Tongue: for some words of that Oration contain in themselves a greater Sense of
Mystical Profundity, of the Authority of Solomon; and having reference to his Writ-
ings, we acknowledge; That these Orations cannot be expounded nor understood, by
humane sense: For it is necessary, That all Orations, and distin particulars of
Astronomy, Astrology, and the Notory Art, be spoken and pronounced in their due
time and season; and the Operations of them to be made according to the disposition
of the Times.
Of the Triumphal Figures, how Sparingly they are to be pronounced,
and honestly and devoutly Spoken.
There are also certain Figures or Orations which Solomon in Chaldeack called, Hely;
that is, Triumphal Orations of the Liberal Arts, and sudden excellent Efficacies of
Vertues; and they are the Introduion to the Notory Art. Wherefore Solomon made a
special beginning of them, that they are to be pronounced at certain determinate
times of the Moon; and not to be undertaken, without consideration of the end.
Which also Magister Apollonius hath fully and perfely taught, saying, Whosoever
will pronounce these words, let him do it in a determinate appointed time, and set
aside all other occasions, and he shall profit in all Sciences in one Moneth, and attain
to them in an extraordinary wonderful manner.
The Expositions of the Lunations of the Notary Art.
These are the Expositions of the Lunation, and the Introduion of the Notory Art,
to wit, in the fourth and the eighth day of the Moon; and in the twelfth, sixteenth,
four and twentieth, eight and twentieth, and thirteenth they ought to be put in
operation. From whence Solomon saith, That to those times, we give the expositive
times of the Moon; of the fourth day of the Moon, which are written by the four
Angels; and in the fourth day of the Moon is manifested to us; and are four times
repeated and explained by the Angel, the Messenger of these Orations; and are also
revealed and delivered to us that require them from the Angel, four times of the
year, to shew the Eloquence and Fulness of the four Languages, Greek, Hebrew,
Chaldee and Latine; and God hath determined the Power of the Faculties of
Humane Understanding, to the four Parts of the Earth; and also the four Vertues of

9
Humanities, Understanding, Memory, Eloquence, and the Faculty of Ruling those
three. And these things are to be used as we have before spoken.
He sheweth how the precedent Oration is the Beginning and Foundation of the whole
Art.
That is the first Figure of the Notory Art, which is manifestly sited upon a Quadran-
gle Note: And this is Angelical Wisdom, understood of few in Astronomy; but in the
Glass of Astrology, it is called, The Ring of Philosophy; and in the Notory Art it is
written, To be the Foundation of the whole Science. But it is to be rehearsed four
times a day, beginning in the morning once, about the third hour once, once in the
ninth hour, and once in the evening.
The precedent Oration ought to be spoken secretly; and let him that speaks it
be alone, and pronounce it with a low voyce, so that he scarcely hear himself. And
this is the condition hereof, that if necessity urge one to do any great works, he shall
say it twice in the morning, and about the ninth hour twice; and let him fast the first
day wherein he rehearseth it, and let him chastly and devoutly. And this is the Ora-
tion which he shall say:
This is the Oration of the four Tongues, Chaldee, Greek, Hebrew and Latine,
evidently expounded, which is called, The Splendor or Speculum of Wisdom. In all
holy Lunations, these Orations ought to be read, once in the morning, once about
the third hour, and once in the evening.
The Oration.
Assaylemath, Assay, Lemath, Azzabue.
The second part of the precedent Orations, which is to be said only once.
Azzaylemath, Lemath, Azacgessenio.
The third part of the precedent Oration, which is to be spoken together with the other.
Lemath, Sabanche, Ellithy, Aygezo.
This Oration hath no Exposition in the Latine.
This is a holy Prayer, without danger of any sin, which Solomon saith, is inexplicable
by humane sense. And he addeth, and saith, That the Explication thereof is more
prolixious, than can be considered of or apprehended by Man; excepting also those
secrets, which is not lawful, neither is it given to Man to utter: Therefore he leaveth
this Oration without Exposition, because no Man could attain to the perfeion
thereof: and it was left so spiritual, because the Angel that declared it to Solomon, laid
an inexcusable prohibition upon it, saying, See that thou do not presume to give to
any other, not to expound anything out of this Oration, neither thy self, nor anyone
by thee, nor anyone after thee: For it is a holy and Sacramental Mystery, that by
expressing the words thereof, God heareth thy Prayer, and increaseth thy Memory,

10
Understanding, Eloquence, and establisheth them all in thee. Let it be read in
appointed times of the Lunation; as, in the fourth day of the Moon, the eighth and
twelfth, as it is written and commanded: say that Oration very diligently four times
in those dayes; verily believing, That thereby thy study shall suddenly be increased,
and made clear, without any ambiguity, beyond the apprehension of humane Reason.
Of the Efficacy of that Oration which is inexplicable to human sense.
This is that onely which Solomon calls The happiness of Wit: and M. Apollonius ter-
meth it, The Light of the Soul, and the Speculum of Wisdom: And, I suppose, the
said Oration may be called, The Image of Eternal Life; the Vertue and Efficacy
whereof is so great, that is understood or apprehended of by very few or none.
Therefore having essayed some Petitions, Signs and Precepts, we give them as
an entrance to those things thereof we intended to speak; of which they are part, that
we have spoken of before. Nevertheless, before we come to speak of them, some
things are necessary to be declared, whereby we may more clearly and plainly set
forth our intended History: For, as we have said before, there are certain Exceptions
of the Notory Art; some whereof are dark and obscure, and others plain and mani-
fest.
For the Notory Art hath a Book in Astronomy, whereof it is the Beginning and
Mistriss; and the Vertue thereof is such, that all Arts are taught and derived from her.
And we are further to know, that the Notory Art doth in a wonderful manner con-
tain and comprehend within it self, all Arts, and the Knowledge of all Learning, as
Solomon witnesseth: Therefore it is called, The Notary Art, because in certain brief
Notes, it teacheth and comprehendeth the Knowledge of all Arts: for so Solomon also
saith in his Treatise Lemegeton, that is, in his Treatise of Spiritual and Secret Experi-
ments.
Here he Sheweth, in what manner these Notes differ in Art, and the Reason thereof;
for a Note is a certain knowledge, by the Oration and Figure before set down.
But of the Orations and Figures, mention shall be made in their due place, and how
the Notes are called in the Notory Art. Now he maketh mention of that Oration,
which is called, The Queen of Tongues: for amongst these Orations, there is more
excellent than the rest, which King Solomon would therefore have be called, The
Queen of Tongues because it takes away, as it were, with a certain Secret covering the
Impediments of the Tongue, and giveth it a marvellous Faculty of Eloquence.
Wherefore before we proceed further, take a little Essay of that Oration: For this is
an Oration which in the Scriptures we are taught to have alwayes in our mouthes; but
it is taken out of the Chaldean Language: which, although it be short, is of a wonder-
ful Vertue; that when you reade that Scripture, with the Oration before-mentioned,
you cannot keep silent those things, which the Tongue and Understand suggest, and
administer to thee.

11
The Oration which follows, is a certain Invocation of the Angels of God, and it
provoketh Eloquence, and ought to be said in the beginning of the Scripture, and in
the beginning of the Moneth.
The Oration.
Lameth, Leynach, Semach, Belmay, (these Orations have not proper Lunations, as the
Commentator saith upon the Gloss.) Azzailement, Gesegon, Lothamasim, Ozetogoma-
glial, Zeziphier, Josanum, Solatac, Bozefama, Defarciamar, Zemait, Lemaio, Pheralon,
Anuc, Philosophi, Gregoon, Letos, Anum, Anum, Anum.
How the Oration is to be said in the beginning of every Moneth, chastly, and with a pure
minde.
In the beginning of the Scriptures, are to be taught, how the precedent Oration
ought to be spoken most secretly, and nothing ought to be retained, which thy
Minde and Understanding suggests and prompts to thee in the reading thereof:
Then also follow certain words, which are Precepts thereof, which ought alwayes to
be begun in the beginning of the Moneth, and also in the dayes. I would also note
this, That it is to be pronounced wisely, and with the greatest reverence: and that
fasting, before you have taken either Meat or Drink.
Here followeth the Prayer we spake of before, to obtain a good Memory.
O Most Mighty God, Invisible God, Theos Patir Heminas; By thy Archangels, Elipha-
masay, Gelonucoa, Gebeche Banai, Gerabcai, Elomnit; and by thy glorious Angels,
whose names are so Consecrated, that they cannot be uttered by us; which are these,
Do., Hel., X., P., A., Li., O., F, &c. which cannot be comprehended by Humane Sense.
Here following is the Prologue of the precedent Oration, which provoketh and procureth
Memory, and is continued with the precedent Note.
This Oration ought to be said next to the precedent Oration; to wit, Lameth: and
with this, I beseech thee today, O Theos, to be said always as one continued Oration.
If it be for the Memory, let it be said in the morning; if for any other effe, in the
evening. And thus let it be said in the hour of the evening, and in the morning: And
being thus pronounced, with the precedent Oration, it increaseth the Memory, and
helpeth the Imperfeions of the Tongue.
Here beginneth the Prologue of this Oration.
I Beseech thee, O my Lord, to Illuminate the Light of my Conscience with the
Splendor of thy Light: Illustrate and confirm my Understanding, with the sweet
odour of thy Spirit. Adorn my Soul, that hearing I may hear; and what I hear, I may
retain in my Memory. O Lord, reform my heart, restore my senses, and strengthen
them; qualifie my Memory with thy Gifts: Mercifully open the dulness of my Soul.
O most merciful God, temper the frame of my Tongue, by thy most glorious and

12
unspeakable Name: Thou who art the Fountain of all Goodness; the Original and
Spring of Piety, have patience with me, give a good Memory unto me, and bestow
upon me what I pray of thee in this holy Oration. O thou who dost not forthwith
Judge a sinner, but mercifully waitest, expeing his Repentance; I, (though unwor-
thy) beseech thee to take away the guilt of my sins, and wash away my wickedness
and offences, and grant me these my Petitions, by the vertue of thy holy Angels, thou
who art one God in Trinity. Amen.
Here he sheweth some other Vertue of the precedent Oration.
If thou doubt of any great Vision, what it may foreshew; or if thou wouldst see any
great Vision, of any danger present or to come; or if thou wouldst be certified of any
one that is absent, say this Oration three times in the evening with great reverence
and devotion, and thou shalt have and see that which thou desireth.
Here followeth an Oration of great Vertue, to attain the knowledge of the Physical Art,
having also many other Vertues and Efficacy.
If you would have the perfe knowledge of any Disease, whether the same tend to
death or life: if the sick party lie languishing, stand before him and say this Oration
three times with great reverence.
The Oration of the Physical Art.
Ihesus fili Dominus Incompehensibilis; Ancor, Anacor, Anylos, Zohorna, Theodonos, hely
otes Phagor, Norizane, Corichito, Anosae, Helse Tonope, Phagora.
Another Part of the Same Oration.
Elleminator, Candones helosi, Tephagain, Tecendum, Thaones, Behelos, Belhoros, Hocho
Phagan. Corphandonos, Humanaenatus & vos Eloytus Phugora: Be present ye holy
Angels, advertise and teach me, whether such a one shall recover, or dye of this Infir-
mity.
This being done, then ask the sick person, Friend, how dost thou feel thyself?
And if he answer thee, I feel myself at good ease, I begin to mend, or the like; then
judge without doubt, the sick person shall recover: but if he answer, I am grievously
ill, or worse and worse; then doubtless conclude, He will dye on the morrow: But if
he answer, I know not how my Fate and condition is, whether better or worse; then
you may know likewise, That he will either dye, or his disease will change and alter
for the worse. If it be a Child, that is not of years capable to make an answer; or that
the sick languish so grievously, that he knoweth not how, or will not answer, say this
Oration three times; and what you find first revealed in your mind, that judge to
come to pass of him.
Furthermore, if anyone dissemble, and seek to hide or cover his infirmity; say
the same Oration, and the Angelical Vertue shall suggest the truth to thee. If the dis-

13
eased person be farre off; when you hear his Name, say likewise this Oration for him,
and your minde shall reveal to you, whether he shall live or dye.
If you touch the Pulse of any Woman with Child, saying the same Oration it
shall be revealed, whether she shall bring forth a Male or Female.
But know, that this miracle preceeds not from your own Nature, but from the
Nature and Vertues of the holy Angels; it being a part of their Office, wonderfully to
reveal these things to you. If you doubt of the Virginity of anyone, say this Oration in
your mind, and it shall be revealed to you whether she be a Virgin or Corrupt.
Here follows an efficacious Preface of an Oration, shewing what Vertue and Efficacy you
may thereby prove every day.
Of this Oration Solomon saith, That by it a new knowledge of Physick is to be
revealed from God: Upon which, he hath laid this command, and calleth it, The
Miraculous and Efficacious Foundation of the Physical Science; and that it con-
taineth in it the quantity and quality of the whole Physical Art and Science: wherein
there is contained, rather a miraculous and specious, then fearful or terrible Miracle,
which as often-soever as thou readest the same, regard not the paucity of words, but
praise the Vertue of so great a Mystery: For, Solomon himself speaking of the subtilty
of the Notory Art, wonderfully extolls the Divine Help; to wit, Because we have pro-
posed a great thing, that is to say, so many and so great Mysteries of Nature, con-
tained under so specious brevity, that I suppose them to be as a general Problem to be
proposed in the ordination of so subtle and excellent a work; that the mind of the
Reader or Hearer may be the more confirmed and fixed here-upon.
Here he sheweth how every Note of every Art ought to exercise his own office; and that the
Notes of one Art profit not to the knowledge of another Art, and we are to know, that all
Figures have their proper Orations.
We come now, according to our strength, to divide the families of the Notory Art,
and leaving that part which is natural, we come to the greater parts of the Art: for
Solomon, a great composer, and the greatest Master of the Notory Art, comprehen-
deth divers Arts under the Notion thereof. Therefore he calleth this a Notory Art,
because it should be the Art of Arts, and Science of Sciences; which comprehendeth
in itself all Arts and Sciences, Liberal and Mechanick: And those things which in
other Arts are full of long and tedious locutions, filling up great prolixious Volumes
of Books, wearying out the Student, through the length of time to attain them: In
this Art are comprehended very briefly in a few words or writings, so that it discov-
ereth those things which are hard and difficult making the ingenious learned in a
very short time, by the wonderful and unheard-of Vertue of the words.
Therefore we, to whom such a faculty of the knowledge of the Scripture of Sci-
ences is granted, have wholly received this great gift, and inestimable benefit, from
the overflowing grace of the most high Creator. And whereas all Arts have their sev-
eral Notes properly disposed to them, and signified by their Figures; and the Note of
every Art, hath not any office of transcending to another Art; neither do the Notes of

14
one Art profit or assist to the knowledge of another Art: Therefore this may seem a
little difficult, as this small Treatise, which may be called a Preludium to the Body of
the Art: we will explain the Notes severally; and that which is more necessary, we
shall by Divine Providence diligently search out the several Sciences of the Scripture.
A certain Special Precept.
This is necessary for us, and necessarily we suppose will be profitable to posterity,
that we know how to comprehend the great prolixious Volumes of writings, in brief
and compendious Treatises; which, that it may easily be done, we are diligently to
enquire out the way of attaining to it, out of the three most ancient Books which
were composed by Solomon; the first and chiefest thing to be understood therein, is,
That the Oration before the second Chapter, it to be used long before every speech,
the beginning whereof is Assay: and the words of the Oration are to be said in a com-
petent space of time; but the subsequent part of the Oration is then chiefly to be said,
when you desire the knowledge of the Volumes of writings, and looking into the
Notes thereof. The same Oration is also to be said, when you would clearly and
plainly understand and expound any Science or great Mystery, that is on a sudden
proposed to you, which you never heard of before: say also the same Oration at such
time, when any thing of great consequence is importuned of you, which at present
you have not the faculty of expounding. This is a wonderful Oration, whereof we
have spoken; the first part whereof is expounded in the Volume of the Magnitude of
the quality of Art.
The Oration.
Lamed, Rogum, Ragia, Ragium, Ragiomal, Agaled, Eradioch, Anchovionos, Lochen,
Saza, Ya, Manichel, Mamacuo, Lephoa, Bozaco, Cogemal, Saluyel, Tesunanu, Azaroch,
Beyestar, Amak.
To the operation of the Magnitude of Art; this Oration containeth in the sec-
ond place, a general Treatise of the first Note of all Scripture, part of the Exposition
whereof, we have fully explained in the Magnitude of the quality of the same Art.
But the Reader hath hardly heard of the admirable Mystery of the Sacramental
Intelle of the same: Let him know this for a certain, and doubt not of the Greek
words of the Oration aforesaid, but that the beginning of them is expounded in Lat-
ine.
The beginning of the Oration.
Oh Eternal and Unreprehensible Memory! Oh Uncontradiible Wisdom! Oh
Unchangeable Power! Let thy right-hand encompass my heart, and the holy Angels
of thy Eternal Counsel; complete and fill up my Conscience with thy Memory, and
the odor of thy Ointments; and let the sweetness of thy Grace strengthen and fortifie
my Understanding, through the pure splendor and brightness of thy holy Spirit; by
vertue whereof, the holy Angels alwayes behold and admire the brightness of thy

15
face, and all thy holy and heavenly Vertues; Wisdom, wherewith thou hast made all
things; Understanding, by which thou hast reformed all things; Perseverance unto
blessedness, whereby thou hast restored and confirmed the Angels; Love, whereby
thou hast restored lost Mankind, and raised him after his Fall to Heaven; Learning,
whereby thou wer't pleased to teach Adam the knowledge of every Science: Inform,
repleat, instru, restore, corre, and refine me, that I may be made new in the
understanding thy Precepts, and in receiving the Sciences which are profitable for my
Soul and Body, and for all faithful believers in thy Name which is blessed forever,
world without end.
Here is also a particular Exposition of the fore-going Oration, which he hath left
unexpounded to be read by everyone that is learned in this Art, and know, that no humane
power nor faculty in man is sufficient to finde out the Exposition thereof.
This Oration is also called by Solomon, The Gemme and Crown of the Lord: for he
saith, It helpeth against danger of Fire, or of wild Beasts of the Earth, being said
with a believing faith: for it is affirmed to have been reported from one of the four
Angels, to whom was given power to hurt the Earth, the Sea, and the Trees. There is
an example of this Oration in the Book called, The Flower of Heavenly Learning: for
herein Solomon glorifieth God, because by this he inspired into him the knowledge of
Theologie, and dignified him with the Divine Mysteries of his Omnipotent Power
and Greatness: which Solomon beholding in his night-sacrifice, bestowed upon him
by the Lord his God, he conveniently gathered the greater Mysteries together in this
Notory Art, which were holy, and worthy, and reverend Mysteries. These things and
Mysteries of Theologie the erring Gentiles have not all lost, which Solomon calleth,
The Signe of the holy Mystery of God revealed by his Angel before; and that which
is contained in them, is the fullness of our dignity and humane Salvation.
The first of these Orations which we call Spiritual, the virtue where of teacheth Divinity,
and preserveth the memory thereof.
These are Orations also, which are of great vertue and efficacy to our Salvation: The
first whereof is Spiritual, and teacheth Divinity; and also Perseverance in the Mem-
ory thereof: Therefore Solomon commandeth it to be called, The Signe of the Grace
of God; for, as Ecclesiastes saith, This is the Spiritual Grace of God, that hath given me
knowledge to treat of all Plants, from the Cedar of Lebanon, to the Hyssop that groweth on
the wall.
The Election of time, in what Lunation these Orations ought to be said.
The first Oration ought to be said once in the first Lunation; in the third, three
times; in the sixth, six times; in the ninth, nine times; in the twelfth, twelve times; in
the seventeenth, seventeen times; and in the eighteenth, as many times; in the twenty
sixth, as many; in the twenty ninth, as many; and so many in the thirty ninth: for this
Oration is of so great vertue and efficacy, that in the very day thou shalt say the same,

16
as if it were determined by the Father, it shall increase thy knowledge in the Science
of Divinity.
But if otherwise that thou art ignorant, and it hath been seen by thy Compan-
ions, thy Superiors or Inferiors, though unto others thou shalt seem to have knowl-
edge; enter into the study of Divinity, and hear the Leures by the space of some
months, casting off all doubt from thee, of them who shall see thee, to know such
things: and in that day wherein thou wouldst say it, live chastly, and say it in the
morning.
Solomon testifieth, That an Angel delivered the following Oration in Thunder,
who standeth always in the Presence of the Lord, to whom he is not dreadful. The
Mystery hereof is holy, and of great efficacy: neither ought this Oration to be said
above once, because it moveth the heavenly Spirits to perform any great work.
Of this Oration he saith, That so great is the Mystery thereof, that it moveth
the Coelestial Spirits to perform any work which the Divine Power permitteth. It
also giveth the vertue of its Mystery, that it exalteth the tongue and body of him that
speaketh it, with so great inspiration, as is some new and great Mystery were sud-
denly revealed to his understanding.
Here followeth the beginning of this Oration, wherein is so great Virtue and efficacy, as we
have said, it being said with great devotion.
Achacham, Yhel, Chelychem, Agzyraztor, Yegor, &c.
This is the beginning of the Oration, the parts whereof are four: But there is
something to be said of the beginning by itself, and the four parts severally; and then
between the beginning and these Orations, which are four, we shall make this com-
petent division.
For this is that which is to be spoken of the beginning severally: And this Ora-
tion is to be divided into four parts; and the first part thereof is to be said, that is, the
beginning, before any other part of the Oration is to be completed. These Greek
Names following are to be pronounced. This is the division of these Orations,
Heilma, Helma, Hmena, &c. Oh God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit,
Confirm this Oration, and my Understanding and Memory, to receive, understand,
and retain the knowledge of all good Scriptures; and give me perseverance of minde
therein.
This is the beginning of that Oration, which, as we have said before, ought to
be said according to the Prolations and Constitutions thereof; and ought to be
repeated, because of the forgetfulness of our Memory, and according to the exercise
of our wit, and according to the sanity of our life; there being contained in it so
great a Mystery, and such efficacious Vertue.
There followeth another subtle Oration, wherein is contained a Sacramental
Mystery, and wherein every perfe Science is wonderfully compleated: For hereby
God would have us to know, what things are Celestial, and what are Terrene; and
what heavenly things the Celestial effeeth, and what earthly things the Terrene:

17
because the Lord hath said, My eyes have seen the imperfe, and in thy book every
day shall be formed and written, and no Man in them, &c. So it is in the Precepts of
God: for we are not able to write all things, how the Sun hath the same course as at
first, that our order may be confirmed; for all writings whatsover, which is not from
God, is not to be read; for God himself would have all things to be divided: and this
is how these are to be used, before the second part, which containeth so glorious and
excellent Consecrations of Orations, and defineth the Consecrated part to have no
power in the Heavens, and in no wise can be defined by humane Tongues.
This is the beginning of the second part of that Oration spoken of before,
which is of great virtue.
Aglaros, Theomiros, Thomitos, &c.
This is the second part of the precedent Oration, of which some singular thing
is to bespoken. Whereof if thou sayest this Oration, commemorating the first part
thereof, say the Oration following, and thou shalt perceive the precepts which are
therein.
Oh God of all things, who art my God, who in the beginning hast created all things
out of nothing, and hast reformed all things by the Holy Spirit; complete and restore my
conscience, and heal my understanding, that I may glorify thee in all my works, thoughts
and words.
And after thou hast said this Oration, make a little respite the space of half an hour, and
then say the third part of the Oration, which follows:
Megal, Legal, Chariotos, &c.
Having said this third part of the Oration, then meditate with thy self about the Scriptures
thou desirest to know; and then say this Oration.
Oh thou that art the Truth, Light, and Way, of all Creatures; Oh Just God, viv-
ify me, and confirm my understanding, and restore my knowledge and conscience
unto me, as thou didst unto King Solomon, Amen.
Commemorating the parts according to that which is laid down, add the Ora-
tion following: the other Orations being said, say the fourth part of the Oration,
which is this, Amasiel, Danyihayr, &c.
Then the parts being commemorated as is directed, add also the following Oration.
I speak these things in thy presence, Oh Lord my God, before whose face all things
are naked and open, that I, being washed from the error of infidelity, thy all-quicking
Spirit may assist me, and take away all incredulity from me.

18
How the Latine Orations are not expounded by the words of the Orations.
We are therefore to know, that the whole Oration remaineth unexpounded; because
the words thereof are of so great subtilty, adorned with the Hebrew and Chaldean
Tongue, with the subtile and wonderful Elocution of God: that the Office of the free
Exposition thereof, cannot possibly be transferred upon me. The Latine words which
are subjoyned to the parts of the Oration aforesaid, are such words as have been
translated out of the Chaldean Tongue: for they are not the whole Oration; but as
certain Heads of every Oration pertaining thereunto.
Here he speaketh of the efficacy of all these.
For this Oration is such a Mystery, as King Solomon himself witnesseth, that a Ser-
vant of his house having found this book by chance, and being too much overcome
with Wine in the company of a Woman, he presumtuously read it; but before he had
finished a part thereof, he was stricked dumb, blind and lame, and his Memory taken
from him; so he continued to the day of his death: and in the hour of his death, he
spoke and said, that four Angels which he had offended in presumtuous reading so
sacred a mystery, were the daily keepers and affliers, one of his Memory, another of
his speech, a third of his sight, and the fourth of his hearing.
By which Testimony this Oration is so much commended by the same King
Solomon, and great is the Mystery thereof: we do greatly require and charge every
one, that will say or read it, that he do it not presumptuously; for in presumption is
sin; Wherefore let this Oration be said, according as is direed.
We therefore hold it convenient and necessary, to speak something of the gen-
eral precepts of art, and of the knowledge of all arts; and of the several precepts of
every singular art: but because we have touched something of the course of the
Moon, it is necessary that we shew what her course signifies. The Moon passeth
through 12 Signs in one Moneth; and the Sun through 12 Signs in a year; and in the
same term and time, the Spirit inspireth, fruifieth and illustrateth them; whence it
is said, that the Sun and the Moon run their course: it is understood the course
which first they had. But because this is wanting in the Hebrew, we thought good to
omit it in the Latine, having spoken sufficiently of the preceding Oration, and the
three parts thereof.
In this Chapter he sheweth the efficacy of the subsequent Oration,
it being special to obtain Eloquence.
This Holy Oration which followeth, is a certain special Oration, to obtain Elo-
quence; whereas all others have virtue and efficacy in other things, this containeth
this certain special mystery in it self: and whereas one of the generals is shewing in it
self, certain general precepts, common to all arts; for so God instituted the Soul in
the Body, saying; This I give to you, that ye may keep and observe the Law of the
Lord; And these are they that stand in the presence of God alwayes, and see their
Savior face to face night and day: So of this Oration, I say, This is that most glorious,

19
mystical and intelligible Oration, containing such mysteries in it, which the mind,
conscience and tongue succeedeth. This is such a mystery, that a man shall keep it
according to his will, who foreseeth all things in his sight that are made; for the mys-
tery of this Oration is glorious and Sacramental: let no man presume to say any of
this Oration after too much drinking or Luxury; nor fasting, without great reverence
and discretion. Whence Solomon saith; Let no man presume to treat anything of this
Oration, but in certain determinate and appointed times, unless he make mention of
this Oration before some great President, for some weighty business; for which this
Oration is of wonderful excellent virtue.
The goodness of this Oration, and the attaining to the effes thereof, it is read
in that Psalm wherein it is said, Follow me, and I will make you Fishers of Men, as
he said and did.
We know that it is not of our power, that this Oration is of so great Virtue, and
such a mystery as sometimes also the Lord said to his Disciples, This we are not able
to know: for this Oration is such a mystery, that it containeth in it the great Name of
God; which many have lied in saying they knew it; for Jesus himself performed many
Miracles in the Temple by it: But many have lyed about what he did, and have hid
and abandoned the truth thereof; so that none have declared the same before it came
to passe: but we suppose have spoken something about or concerning it.
In this Chapter he setteth down the time and manner how this Oration is to be pronounced.
For this Oration is one of the generals, and the first of particulars, containing both in
it self; having a special virtue and faculty, to gain Eloquence in it self: therefore it is
necessary to be understood what time, ordination, and what dayes it is to be said and
published.
It may always be rehearsed in every 14 Lunary as above said; but the ordination
of the time for every day, wherein it is to be said, is especially in the morning betimes,
before a man is defiled; and then all Orations are chiefly to be said. And this Oration
must be then pronounced totally together, without any division. And although there
are divisions therein, the Oration is not divided in itself; but only the Divine and
Glorious Names are written severally, and are divided into parts, according to the ter-
minations of every great and Glorious name; and it is to be said together as a most
excellent name, but not as one Word, because of the fragility of our nature; Neither is
it needful to know the Elements of syllables, posited in this Oration; they are not to
be known; neither let anyone presumptuously speak them; neither let him do any
thing by way of temptation, concerning this Oration, which ought not to be done:
Elmot, Sehel, Hemech, Zaba, &c.
No Man that is impedited or corrupted with any crime ought to presume to say this
Oration.
This is a thing agreed unto amongst the wise men of this World, that these things, as
we have said before, be pronounced with great reverence and industry: it may be said

20
every day, wherein thou art not hindered by some criminal sin; and in that day
wherein thou art impedited by some criminal sin, thou maist remember it in thy
heart; and if thou dost desire to be made Eloquent, repeat it three times. And if any
evil thing trouble thee, or thou art emerged and involved into any great business,
repeat this Oration once, and Eloquence shall be added to thee, as much as is needed;
and if thou repeat it over twice, great Eloquence shall be given to thee: so great a Sac-
rament is this Oration.
The third thing to be considered in this Oration, is; This Oration ought so to be
pronounced, that confession of the Heart and Mouth ought to precede it: let it be
pronounced in the morning early, and after that Oration say the Latine Oration fol-
lowing.
This is a Prologue or Exposition of the precedent Oration, which ought to be said together.
Oh omnipotent and eternal God, and merciful Father, blessed before all Worlds;
who art a God eternal, incomprehensible, and unchangeable, and hast granted this
blessed gift of Salvation unto us; according to the omnipotency of thy Majesty, hast
granted unto us; the faculty of speaking and learning, which thou hast denied to all
other animals; and hast disposed of all things by thy infallible providence: thou art
God, whose Nature is eternal and consubstantial, exalted above the Heavens; in
whom the whole Deity corporally dwells: I implore thy Majesty, and Glorify thy
omnipotency, with an intentive imploration, adoring the mighty Virtue, Power, and
Magnificence of thy eternity. I beseech thee, Oh my God, to grant me the inestima-
ble Wisdom of the Life of thy holy Angels. Oh God the Holy Spirit, incomprehen-
sible, in whose presence stand the Holy quires of Angels; I pray and beseech thee, by
thy Holy and Glorious Name, and by the sight of thy Angels, and the Heavenly
Principalities, to give thy grace unto me, to be present with me, and to give unto me
power to persevere in the Memory of thy Wisdom, who livest and reignest eternally
one eternal God, through all worlds of worlds; in whose sight are all Celestial Vir-
tues, now and alwayes, and everywhere, Amen.
This Oration being thus finished, there must of necessity some Mystery be
added; so that you are to be silent a while after the Latine Oration is ended: and after
a little taciturnity, that is, a little space of silence, begin to say this Oration following
seriously: Semet, Lamen, &c.
This (saith Solomon) is the Oration of Orations, and a special experiment,
whereby all things, whether generals or particulars, are known fully, efficaciously and
perfely, and are kept in the Memory. But when thou hast by this Oration attained
the Eloquence thou desirest, be sparing thereof, and do not rashly declare those
things which thy Tongue suggests and administers to thee; for this is the end of all
general Precepts, which are given to obtain Memory, Eloquence, and understanding,
All those things which are before delivered, of general precepts, are given as signs
how the faculty of attaining to the understanding of the general precepts may be had,

21
which also Solomon calleth Spirituals; and those singular arts have singular virtues
and powers.
Having now given a sufficient definition of general precepts; and the Orations
are laid down, and the Authority of the Orations unto what they are designed; It is
now necessary to set down what is to be done, concerning the singular Orations;
because we are now to treat of the several and particular arts, that we may follow the
example which our builder and Master hath laid before us; for Solomon saith, before
we proceed to the singular Notes and Orations of Arts before noted, there ought to
be said a Preludium, which is a beginning or Prologue.
How every several Art hath its proper note.1
Before we proceed to the singular precepts of several Arts, it is necessary to discover
how every several Art hath a several Note.
Of the Liberal Sciences and other things, which may be had by that Art.
The Liberal Arts are seaven, and seaven exceptives, and seaven Mechanicks. The
seaven exceptives are comprehended under the seaven liberal: It is manifest what the
seaven Liberal Arts are, of which we shall first treat. The Mechanicks are these,
which are adulterately called Hydromancy, Pyromancy, Nigromancy, Chiromancy, Geo-
mancy, Geonegia, which is comprehended under Astronomy and Neogia.
Hydromancy is a science of divining by the Water; whereby the Masters thereof
judged by the standing or running of the Water. Pyromancy is an Experiment of
divining by the flaming of the fire; which the ancient Philosophers esteemed of great
efficacy. Nigromancy is a Sacrifice of dead Animals, whereby the Ancients supposed
to know many great Experiments without sin, and to attain to great knowledge: from
whence Solomon commandeth that they might read seaven Books of that Art without
sin; And that two he accompted Sacriledge, and that they could not read two Books
of that Art without sin. But having spoken enough hereof, we proceed to the rest.
Of the Liberal Sciences and other things which may be had thereby.
There are seaven Liberal Arts, which everyone may learn without sin. For Philoso-
phy is great, containing profound Mysteries in itself: These Arts are wonderfully
known.
He declareth what Notes the three first Liberal Arts have.
For Grammar hath three Notes only, Dialects two, and Rhetorick four, and every one
with open and distin Orations. But wherefore Grammar hath three, Dialects two,
and Rhetorick four; that we know King Solomon himself testifieth and affirmeth; for
he saith, And as I was admiring and revolving in my heart and mind, which way,
from whom and from whence was this Science, an Angel brought one Book, wherein
1. This section begins part II of the manuscript, concerned with the acquisition of the skills
pertaining to the specific Liberal Arts.

22
was written the Figures and Orations, and delivered unto me the Notes and Orations
of all Arts, plainly and openly, and told me of them all as much as was necessary:
And he explained unto me, as to a Child are taught by certain Elements; some
tedious Arts in a great space of time, how that I should have these Arts in a short
space of time: Saying unto me, So shalt thou be promoted to every science by the
increase of these Virtues. And when I asked him, Lord, whence and how cometh
this? The Angel answered, This is a great Sacrament of the Lord, and of his Will:
this writing is by the power of the Holy Ghost, which inspireth, fruifieth and
increaseth all knowledge; And again the Angel said, Look Upon these Notes and
Orations, at the appointed and determinate times, and observe the times as
appointed of God, and no otherwise. When he had thus said he shewed to King
Solomon a Book wherein was written, at what times all these always were to be pro-
nounced and published, and plainly demonstrated it according to the Vision of God:
Which things I have heard and seen, did operate in them all, according to the Word
of the Lord by the Angel: And so Solomon declareth, it came to pass unto him: But
we that come after him, ought to imitate his Authority, as much as we are able to
observe those things he hath left unto us.
Here Solomon sheweth how the Angel told him distinctly, wherefore the Grammar hath
three Figures.
Behold wherefore the Grammatical Art hath only three Notes in the Book of
Solomon; Gemeliath, that is, in the Book of the Art of God, which we read is the Art
of all other Sciences, and of all other Arts; For Solomon saith, When did I inquire
everything singularly of the Angel of God, with fear, saying, Lord, from whence shall
this come to passe to me, that I may fully and perfely know this Art? Why do so
many Notes appertain to such an Art, and so many to such an Art, and are ascribed
to several determinate Orations, to have the efficacy thereof? The Angel is thus said
to answer: The Grammatical Art is called a liberal Art, and hath three things neces-
sary thereunto; Ordination of words and times; and in them, of Adjuns or Figures;
Simple, compound and various; and a various declination of the parts to the parts, or
a relation from the parts, and a Congruent and ordinate division. This is the reason,
why there is three Notes in the Art of Grammar: And so it pleased the Divine Wis-
dom, that as there should be a full knowledge of declining by one; by another, that
there should be had a convenient Ordination of all the parts; by the third, there
should be had a continual and convenient Division of all the parts, simple and com-
pound.
The Reason why the Dialectical Art hath two Figures onely.
Dialect, which is called the form of Arts, and a Dorinal speech, hath two things
necessary thereunto, to wit, Eloquence of Arguing, and Prudence to answer; There-
fore the greatness of the Divine Providence and Piety, hath appointed two Notes to
it; that by the first, we may have Eloquence to Argue and Dispute; and by the sec-

23
ond, industry to answer without ambiguity: Wherefore there are ascribed to Gram-
mar three Notes, and to Dialect two Notes.
The Reason why Rhetorick hath four Figures.
Let us see wherefore Rhetorick hath four Notes. For there are four things necessary
therein; as the Angel of the Lord said unto Solomon; to wit, a continual and flourish-
ing adornment of locution, An ordinate, competent and discreet judgement, a Testi-
mony of Causes or Offices, of Chances & Losses, a composed disposition of buying
and selling; An Eloquence of the matters of that Art, with a demonstrative under-
standing. Therefore the greatness of God hath appointed to the Art of Rhetorick four
Notes, with their Holy and Glorious Orations; as they were reverently sent by the
Hand of God; that every Note in that Art aforesaid, might have a several faculty,
That the first Note in that Art, might give a continual locution, a competent and flo-
rishing adornment thereof: The second, to discern Judgements, just and unjust, ordi-
nate and inordinate, true and false: The third, competently to discover offices and
causes: and the fourth giveth understanding and Eloquence in all the operations in
this Art, without prolixity. See therefore how in Grammar, Logick, and Rhetorick,
the several Notes are disposed in the several Arts.
But of all the other Arts and their Notes, we shall speak in their due place and
time, as we find them disposed in the book of the same Solomon.
At what times and hours the Notes of these three Liberal Arts are to be looked into.
Now we proceed to shew at what time, and how the Notes of these Arts are to be
looked into, and the Orations to be said, to attain to these Arts. If thou art altogether
ignorant of the Grammatical Art, and wouldst have the knowledge thereof: if it be
appointed thee of God to do this work of works, and have a firm understanding in
this Art of Arts; then know that thou maist not presume to do otherwise than this
book commandeth thee; for this book of his shall be thy Master, And this Art of his
thy Mistress.
How the Grammatical Notes are to be looked into in the first Moon.
For in this manner, the Grammatical Notes are to be looked into, and the Orations
to be said.
In the dayes when the Moon is in her prime, the first Note is to be looked into
12 times, and the Oration thereof repeated 24 times with Holy reverence; making a
little space between, let the Oration be twice repeated at the inspeion of every
Note, and chiefly abstain from sins: do this from the first day of the Moon to the 14,
and from the 14 to the 17. The first and second Notes are to be looked into 20 times,
and the Oration to be repeated 30 times, on the 15 and 17 dayes, using some interval
between them, All the three Notes are then everyday to be looked into 12 times, and
the Orations are to be repeated 20 times: and thus of the Notes of the Art of Gram-
mar. But if thou hast read any books of this Art, and desirest perfeion therein, do as

24
is commanded; using the general Orations to Increase Memory, Eloquence, under-
standing and perseverance therein, repeating these above in the due time and hours
appointed; lest that going beyond thy precept, thou commitest sin: but when thou
dost this, see that it be secret to thy self, and that thou have no looker on but God.
Now we come to the Notes.
Here followeth the knowledge of the Notes.
In the beginning of the inspeion of all Notes, fast the first day till the evening, if
you can; if thou canst not, then take another hour. This is the Grammatical precept.
Of the Logical Notes.
The Dialeical Notes may be used every day, except only in those dayes before told
of: The Rhetorical every day, except only three dayes of the Moneth, to wit, . 11. 17.
and 19. And they are forbidden on these dayes, as Solomon testifies, the Notes of all
Arts, except the Notes of this Art are offered. These precepts are generally to be
observed.
How the Logical Notes are to be inspected, and the Orations thereof said.
Know, that the Dialeical Notes are four times to be looked into, and the Orations
thereof in that day are 20 times to be repeated, making some respite, and having the
books of that Art before your Eyes; and so likewise the books of Rhetorick, when the
Notes thereof are inspeed, as is appointed. This sufficeth for the knowledge of the 3
Arts.
How we must beware of offences.
Before we proceed to begin the first Note of the Art of Grammar, something is to be
tryed before, that we may have the knowledge of the 1, 2 and 3 Notes. And you ought
first to know, in what the Notes of the Grammatical, Logical, or Rhetorical Art are
to be inspeed, it being necessary that your greatest intentions be to keep from all
offences.
How the Notes ought to be inspected, at certain elected times.
This is a special and manifest knowledge, wherewith the Notes of the Grammatical
Art are known: how they are to be published, at what times, and with what distin-
ion, is duly and competently manifest; it is spoken already of the publishing and
inspeion of the Notes and Orations: now we shall digress a little to speak some-
thing of the times, it being in part done already.
How diverse Months are to be sought out in the inspection of the Notes.
We have spoken already of the tearms of this Art, wherein the Orations are to be
read, and the Notes to be looked into: it remaineth to declare how the Lunations of

25
these Orations are to be inspeed and found out. But see that you mistake not: yet I
have already noted the Lunations, wherein the Notes ought to be looked into, and
the Orations rehearsed: But there are some Months, wherein the Lunation is more
profitable than others: if thou wouldst operate in Theology or Astronomy, do it in a
fiery sign; if Grammar or Logick, in  or : if Musick or Physick, in  or ; if
Rhetorick, Philosophy, Arithmetick or Geometry, in  or : for Mathematicks, in
 or : so they are well placed, and free from evil; for all Heavenly Potestates and
Chorus of Angels, do rejoyce in their Lunations, and determinate dayes.
Here is made mention of the Notes of all Arts.
I, Apollonius, following the power of Solomon, having disposed my self to keep his
works and observations, as it is spoken in the three Notes of Grammar, so will I
observe the times as they are to be observed: But the Orations thereof are not writ-
ten, but are more fully demonstrated in the following work; for what is written of
those three Notes, are not Orations, but Definitions of those Notes, written by the
Greek, Hebrew, and Chaldean, and other things which are apprehended by us: For
those writings which are not understood in Latine ought not to be pronounced, but
on those dayes which are appointed by King Solomon, and in those dayes wherein the
Notes are inspeed, but on those dayes those Holy writings are always to be
repeated: and the Latine, on those dayes wherein the Notes are not inspeed. The
Notes of the Logical Art are two: and at what times they are to be published is
already shewn in part: more shall hereafter be said of them: now we come first to the
rest. The Latine writings may be published, according to the Antiquity of the
Hebrews, except on those dayes we have spoken of: for Solomon saith, See that thou
perform all those precepts as they are given: But of the rest that follow, it is to be
done otherwise: for when thou seest the first Note of Logick, repeat in thy heart the
sign in the first Note, and so in the Notes of all Arts, except those whereof a defini-
tion shall be given.
Definitions of several Arts, and the Notes thereof.
We will give also Definitions of several Arts, as it is in the Book of Solomon; Geome-
try hath one Note, Arithmetick a Note and a half; Philosophy, with the Arts and Sci-
ences contained therein, hath 7 Species; Theology and Astronomy, with the Sciences
in them contained, hath 7 Notes, but they are great and dangerous; not great in the
pronunciation, but have great efficacy: Musick hath one Note, and Physick one
Note; but they are all to be published and rehearsed in their appointed dayes: But
know, that in every day wherein you beholdest the Notes of Theology, Philosophy, or
of any Arts contained in them, that thou neither laugh nor play, nor sport; because
King Solomon, when he saw the forms of these Notes, having overdrunk himself,
God was angry with him, and spoke unto him by his Angel, saying, Because thou
hast despised my sacrament, and Polluted and derided my Holy things; I will take
away part of thy Kingdome, and I will shorten the dayes of thy Children. And the Angel

26
added, The Lord hath forbid thee to enter into the Temple 80 days, that thou maist repent
of thy sin. And when Solomon wept and besought mercy of the Lord, the Angel
answered, Thy dayes shall he prolonged; nevertheless many evills and iniquities shall come
upon thy Children, and they shall be destroyed of the iniquities that shall come upon them.
At the beginning of a Note, having seen the generals; let the specials be looked
into. The word of Solomon is to seek unto God for his promises, before the Notes of
the three Arts.
The first Oration at the beginning of the Note.
The Light, Truth, Life, Way, Judge, Mercy, Fortitude and Patience, preserve,
help me, and have Mercy upon me, Amen.
This Oration, with the preceding ought to be said in the beginning of the first
Note of Grammar. Oh Lord, Holy Father, Almighty, eternal God, in whose sight are
all the foundations of all creatures, and invisible beings whose Eyes behold my
imperfeions, of the sweetness of whose love the Earth and Heavens are filled; who
sawest all things before they were made, in whose book every day is formed, and all
mankind are written therein: behold me, thy Servant this day prostrate me before
thee, with thy whole Heart and Soul: by thy Holy Spirit confirm me, blesse me, pro-
te all my Aions in this inspeion or repetition, and illuminate me of thy visita-
tion.
The third Oration: This Oration ought to be said before the second Note of
Grammar. Behold, O Lord, merciful Father all things, eternal dispensor of all vir-
tues, and consider my operations this day; Thou art the Beholder and Discerner of all
the Aions of Men and Angels: Let the wonderful grace of thy promises condescend
to fufil this sudden virtue in me, and infuse such efficacy into me, operating in thy
Holy and great Name, thou who infusest thy praise into the mouths of them that
love thee, Amen.
The fourth Oration; Let this Oration be rehearsed before the third Grammati-
cal Note: O ADONAY, Creator of all visible Creatures! OH most Holy Father, who
dwellest incompassed about with eternal light, disposing and by thy power governing all
things before all beginnings; I most humbly beseech thy eternity and thy incomprehensible
goodness may come to perfection in me, by the operation of thy most Holy Angels; and be
confirmed in my Memory, and establish these, thy Holy works in me, Amen.
A little space after this Oration, say the following: the first Oration ought to be
said before the first Note of Logick. O Holy God, great good and the eternal Maker of all
things, thy Attributes not to be expressed, who hast Created the Heaven and the Earth, the
Sea and all things in them, and the bottomless pit according to thy pleasure; in whose sight
are the Words and Actions of all men: Grant unto me, by these Sacramental Mysteries of thy
Holy Angels, the precious knowledge of this art, which I desire by the Ministery of thy Holy
Angels, it being without any Malignant or Malicious intent, Amen.

27
Pronounce this Oration in the beginning of the first Figure of the Logick Art;
and after this Oration rehearse incontinently with some interval, the Orations written
between the first Figure.
The sixth Oration ought to be said before the first Note of the Diale; Helay:
Most Merciful Creator, Inspirer, Reformer, and Approver of all Divine Wills, Ordainer of
all things, Mercifully give ear to my Prayer, gloriously intend unto the desires of my heart,
that what I humbly desire, according to thy promises, thou wilt Mercifully grant, Amen.
This Oration following, ought to be pronounced before the first Note of the
Rhetorical Art: Omnipotent and merciful Father, Ordainer and Creator of all Creatures:
O most Holy Judge, eternal King of Kings, and Lord of Lords; who wonderfully conde-
scendest to give wisdom and understanding to the Saints, who judgest and discernest all
things: I beseech thee to illuminate my heart this day with the Splendor of thy Beauty, that I
may understand and know what I desire, and what things are considerable to be known in
this Art, Amen. This Oration , with the following Hanazay, &c. ought to be pro-
nounced before the first Figure of Rhetorick and although the they are divided only
the this cause, that there might be some mean interval used in the pronouncing of
them; and they ought to be pronounced before the other Orations written in the Fig-
ure.
Hanazay, Sazhaon, Hubi, Sene, Hay, Ginbar, Ronail, Selmore, Hyramay, Lobal,
Yzazamael, Amathomatois, Yaboageyors, Sozomcrat, Ampho, Delmedos, Geroch, Agalos,
Meihatagiel, Secamai, Sabeleton, Mechogrisces, Lerirenorbon.
The 8 Oration, let it be pronounced before the second Note of the Rhetorical
Art: Oh great eternal and wonderful Lord God, who of thy eternal counsel hast disposed of
all virtues, and art Ordainer of all goodness; Adorn and beautify my understanding, and
give unto me Reason to know and learn the Mysteries of thy Holy Angels: And grant unto
me all knowledge and learning thou hast promised to thy Servants by the virtue of thy Holy
Angels, Amen.
This Oration, with the other two following, ought to be pronounced (viz.
Vision, &c.) Azelechias, &c., in the beginning of the second Figure of Rhetorick, and
before the other Orations; and there ought to be some interval between them.
Let this Oration following be said, before the second Note of Rhetorick Vision;
beholding with thy eternal conspiration all Powers, Kingdoms and Judges, Adminis-
tering all manner of Languages to all, and of whose power there is no end; restore I
beseech thee, and increase my Memory, my heart and understanding, to know,
understand, and judge all things which thy Divine Authority commendeth necessary
in this art, perfely fulfill them in me, Amen.
Let this Oration following, with the precedent, be rehearsed before the second
Note of Rhetorick. Azelechias, Velozeos, Inoanzama, Samelo, Hotens, Sagnath, Adonay,
Soma, Jezoehos, Hicon, Jezomethon, Sadaot. And thou Oh God propitiously confirm
thy promises in me, as thou hast confirmed them by the same words to King
Solomon; send unto me, Oh Lord, thy virtue from Heaven, that may illuminate my
mind and understanding: strengthen, Oh God, my understanding, renew my Soul
within me, and wash me with the Waters which are above the Heavens; pour out thy

28
Spirit upon my flesh, and fill my bowels with thy Judgements, with humility and
charity: thou who hast created Heaven and the Earth, and made Man according to
thy own Image; pour out the light of thy love into my understanding, that being rad-
icated and established in thy love and thy mercy, I may love thy Name, and know and
worship thee, and understand all thy Scriptures, And all the Mysteries which thou
hast declared by thy Holy Angels, I may receive and understand in my Heart, and use
this Art to thy Honor and Glory, through thy mighty Counsel, Amen.
The 11 Oration ought to be said before the pronounciation of the third Note of
Rhetorick. I know, that I love thy Glory, and my delight is in thy wonderful works,
and that thou wilt give unto me wisdome, according to thy goodness and thy power,
which is incomprehensible: Theon, Haltanagon, Haramalon, Zamoyma, Chamasal,
Jeconamril, Harionatar, Jechomagol, Gela Magos, Kemolihot, Kamanatar, Hariomolatar,
Hanaces, Velonionathar, Azoroy, Jezabali; by these most Holy and Glorious profound
Mysteries, precious Offices, virtue and knowledge of God, complete and perfe my
beginnings and reform my beginnings, Zembar, Henoranat, Grenatayl, Samzatam,
Jecornazay: Oh thou great Fountain of all goodness, knowledge and virtue, given
unto thy Servant power to eschew all evil, and cleave unto goodness and knowledge,
and to follow the same with an Holy intention, that with my whole heart I may
understand & learn thy Laws and Decrees; especially these Holy Mysteries; wherein
that I may profit, I beseech thee, Amen.
12. This Oration ought to be said before the ninth Rhetorical Note: O most rev-
erend Almighty Lord, ruling all Creatures both Angels and Archangels, and all Celestial,
Terrestrial, and Infernal Creatures; of whose greatness comes all plenty, who hast made
man after thy own Image; Grant unto me the knowledge of this Art, and strengthen all Sci-
ences in me, Amen.
13. Pronounce this before the first Figure of Arithmetick: Oh God who numbrest,
weighest, and measurest all things, given the day his order, and called the Sun by his name;
Grant the knowledge of this Art unto my understanding, that I may love thee, and
acknowledge the gift of thy goodness, Amen.
14. Say this before the semi-note of Arithmetick: Oh God, the Operator of all
things, from whom proceeds every good and perfect gift; sow the Seeds of thy Word in my
Heart, that I may understand the excellent Mysteries of this Art, Amen.
15. Say this before the second Figure of Arithmetick: Oh God the perfect Judge of
all good works, who maketh known they saving goodness among all Nations; open my Eyes
and my heart, with the beams of thy mercy, that I may understand and persever, in these
thy Heavenly Mysteries, Amen.
16. This Oration before the second Note of Geometry: Oh God, the giver of all
wisdome and knowledge to them that are without sin, Instructor and Master of all Spiri-
tual learning, by thy Angels and Arch-Angels, by Thrones, Potestates, Principates and
Powers, by Cherubim and Seraphim, and by the 24 Elders, by the 4 Animals, and all the
host of Heaven, I adore, invocate, worship and glorify thy Name, and exalt thee: most terri-
ble and most merciful, I do humbly beseech thee this day to illuminate and fill my Heart
with the grace of thy Holy Spirit, thou who art three in one, Amen.

29
17. Say this Oration before the second Note on Theology. I adore thee, O King of
Kings, my light, my substance, my life, my King, and my God, my Memory, and my
strength; who in a Moment gavest sundry Tongues, and threwest down a Mighty Tower,
and gavest by thy Holy Spirit the knowledge of Tongues to thy Apostles, infusing thy
knowledge into them in a Moment, giving them the understanding of all Languages:
inspire my Heart, and pour the dew of thy grace and Holy Spirit into me, that I may
understand the Exposition of Tongues and Languages, Amen.
Three Chapters to be published, before any of the Notes.
What we have spoken of the three first Chapters are generally and specially to be
pronounced, so that you say them, and the Orations on the dayes appointed, and
work by the Notes as it is demonstrated to you. These Orations ought to be said
alwayes before noon, every day of the Moneth; and before the Notes say the proper
Orations: and in all reading, observe the precepts commanded.
How the Proper Notes are to be inspected.
lf you would learn anything of one Art, look into the proper Notes thereof in their
due time. Enough as said already of the three liberal Arts.
What days are to be observed in the inspection of the Notes of the four Arts.
In the four other Arts, only the first dayes are to be observed: The Philosophical
Notes, with all Sciences contained therein, the 7 and 17 dayes of the Moon are to be
inspeed, 7 times a day, with their several Orations. The Note is to be looked into,
with fear, silence and trembling.
Of the Notes of the liberal Arts, it is spoken already; but only know this, that
when you would use them, live chaste and soberly; for the Note hath in itself 24
Angels, is fully and perfely to be pronounced, as you have heard: but when you look
into them, repeat all the Theological Orations, and the rest in their due time.
Of the inspection of general Notes.
Say the general Notes 10 times a day, when you have occasion to use any common
Arts, having the books of those Arts before you, using some interval or space of time
between them, as you have been taught already.
How the three first Chapters are to be pronounced before Orations.
To have perfeion herein, know, that in the general pronounciation of Orations, the
Notes of the three heads are to be rehearsed; whether the Orations be pronounced or
not.
How the fifth Oration of Theology ought to be rehearsed upon these Orations.
There is also something else to be said of the four other liberal Arts; if you would
have the perfe knowledge of them, make the first Oration of Theology before you

30
say the Orations of the other Notes. These are sufficiently declared, that you might
understand and know them; And let the the capitular Orations be pronounced before
the several Notes of every Art, and kept as is determined, &c. These are the Aug-
mentations of the Orations, which belong to all Arts, liberal and exceptive, except
Mechanick, and are especially ascribed to the Notes of Theology. And they are thus to
be pronounced, that whensoever you look into any one Note of any Art, and would
profit therein, say these Orations following.
1. Ezamamos, Hazalat, Ezityne, Hezemechel, Czemomechel, Zamay, Zaton, Ziamy
Nayzaton, Hyzemogoy, Jeccomantha, Jaraphy, Phalezeton, Sacramphal, Sagamazaim,
Secranale, Sacramathan, Jezennalaton Hacheriatos, Jetelemathon, Zaymazay, Zamaihay
Gigutheio Geurlagon, Garyos. Mega'on Hera Cruhic, Crarihuc, Amen.
Let this Oration with the following be pronounced before the first Note of Phi-
losophy: Oh Lord God, Holy Father, Almighty and incomprehensible; hear my
Prayers, thou that art invisible, immortal and intelligible, whose face the Angels and
Arch-Angels, and all the powers of Heaven, do so much desire to see; whose Majesty
I desire eternally to adore, and honor the only one God for ever and ever. Amen.
2. Say this before the second Note of Philosophy: Oh Lord God, Holy and
Almighty Father, hear my Prayers this day, and incline thy ears to my Orations;
Gezomelion Samach, Semath, Cemon, Gezagam, Gezatrhin, Zheamoth, Zeze Hator
Sezeator Samay Sannanda, Gezyel, Iezel, Gaziety, Hel, Gazayethyhel, Amen.
Say this following with the former: Oh God eternal, the way, the truth, and the
life; give thy light and the flower of thy Holy Spirit into my mind and understanding,
and grant that the gift of thy grace may shine forth in my heart, and into my Soul,
now and forever, Amen.
Pronounce the Oration following before the third Note of Philosophy; Lem-
ogethom, Hegemochom, Hazachay Hazatha, Azamachar, Azacham, Cohathay, Geomothay
Logomothay, Zathana, Lachanma, Legomezon, Legornozon, Lembdemachon, Zegomaday,
Haihanayos, Hatamam, Helesymom, Vagedaren, Vadeyabar, Lamnanath, Lamadai,
Gomongchor, Gemecher, Ellemay, Gecromal, Gecrohahi, Colomanos, Colomaythos, Amen.
Say this Oration following with the precedent Oration: Oh God the life of all
visible Creatures, eternal brightness, and virtue of all things; who art the original of
all piety, who knewest all thing before they were; who judgest all things, and discer-
neth all things by the unspeakable knowledge: glorify thy Holy and unspeakable
Name this day in my heart, and strengthen my intelleual understanding; increase
my Memory, and confirm my eloquence; make my tongue ready, quick, and perfe
in thy Sciences and Scriptures, that by thy power given unto me, and thy wisdome
taught in my heart, I may praise thee, and know and understand thy Holy Name for
ever World without end, Amen.
Say this Oration following before the fourth Note of Philosophy. Oh King of
Kings, the Giver and Dispenser of infinite Majesty, and of infinite mercy, the
founder of all foundations; lay the foundation of all thy virtues in me, remove all
foolishness from my heart, that my senses may be established in the love of thy char-

31
ity, and my Spirit informed by thee, according to the recreation and invocation of thy
will, who livest and reignest God throughout all Worlds of Worlds, Amen.
How these Orations are to be said every day once before the general Note,
and the Notes of the liberal Arts.
These 4 Orations are necessary for liberal Arts, but chiefly do appertain to Theology,
which are to be said every day before the general Notes, or the Notes of the liberal
Arts; but to Theology say every one of these 7 times to every Note; but if you would
learn or teach anything of diating, versifying, singing or Musick, or any of these
Sciences, first teach him these Orations, that thou wouldst teach, how he should read
them: but if he be a Child of mean understanding, read them before him, and let him
say after thee word for word; but if he be of a good understanding, let him read them
7 times a day for 7 days: or if it be a general Note, pronounce these Orations, and the
Virtue thereof shall profit you much, and you shall therein find great virtue.
Solomon saith of these Orations, Let no man presume to make use of them
unless for the proper Office they are instituted for. Oh Father, incomprehensible,
from whom proceedeth everything that is good; whose greatness is incomprehensi-
ble: hear this day my Prayers, which I make in thy sight, and grant to me the Joy of
thy saving health, that I may teach unto the wicked the wayes and Paths of thy Sci-
ences, and convert the Rebellious & incredulous unto thee, that whatsoever I com-
memorate and repeat in my heart and mouth, may take root and foundation in me;
that I may be made powerful and efficacious in thy works, Amen.
Say this Oration before the 6 Note of Philosophy; Gezemothon, Oronathian,
Heyatha, Aygyay, Lethasihel, Iaechizliet, Gerohay, Gerhomay, Sanoaesorel, Sanasathel,
Gissiomo, Hatel, Segomasay, Azomathon, Helomathon, Gerochor, Hojazay, Samin, Heliel,
Sanihelyel, Siloth, Silerech, Garamathal, Gesemathal, Gecoromay, Gecorenay, Samyel,
Samihahel, Hesemyhel, Sedolamax, Secothamay, Samya, Rabiathos, Avinosch, Annas,
Amen.
Then say the following: Oh eternal King! O God, the Judge and discerner of all
things, knower of all good Sciences; instru me this day for thy Holy Names sake,
and by these Holy Sacraments; and purify my understanding, that thy knowledge
may enter into my inward parts, as water flowing from Heaven, and as Oil into my
bones, by thee, Oh God Saviour of all things, who art the fountain of goodness, and
original of piety; instru me this day in those Holy Sciences which I desire, thou
who art one God for ever, Amen.
Oh God Father, incomprehensible, from whom preceedeth all good, the great-
ness of whose mercy is fathomless, hear my Prayers, which I make this day before
thee, and render unto me the joy of thy Salvation, that I may teach the unjust the
knowledge of thy wayes, and convert the unbelieving and Rebellious unto thee; and
may have power to perform thy works, Amen.

32
The 7 Oration, which is the end of the Orations, belonging to the ineffable Note, the last of
Theology, having 24 Angels.
Oh God of all piety, Author and Foundation of all things, the eternal Health and
Redemption of thy People; Inspirer and great Giver of all graces, Sciences and Arts,
from whose gift it cometh: Inspire into me thy servant, an increase of those Sciences:
who hast granted life to me miserable sinner, defend my Soul, and deliver my Heart
from the wicked cogitations of this World; extinguish and quench in me the flames
of all lust and fornication, that I may the more attentively delight in thy Sciences and
Arts; and give unto me the desire of my Heart, that I being confirmed and exalted in
thy Glory, may love thee: and increase in me the power of thy Holy Spirit, by thy
Salvation and reward of the faithful, to the Salvation of my Soul and Body, Amen.
Then say this following. Oh God, most mighty Father, from whom proceedeth
all good, the greatness of whose mercy is incomprehensible; hear my Prayers, that I
make in thy sight.
Special precepts of the Notes of Theology, chiefly of the 1. 2. and 3.
These 7 Orations are to be an augmentation of the rest, and ought to be said before
all the Notes of Theology, but especially before the ineffable Note; these are the pre-
cepts to make thee sufficient, which we command thee to observe by the authority of
Solomon: diligently inquire them out, and do as we have proposed, and perfely pro-
nounce the Orations, and look into the Notes of the other Arts.
How Solomon received that ineffable Note from the Angel.
Because thou desirest the Mystery of the Notes, take this of the ineffable Note, the
expression whereof is given in the Angels by the Figures of Swords, birds, trees,
Flowers, Candles and Serpents; for Solomon received this from the Lord in the night
of Pacification, ingraven in a book of Gold; and heard this from the Lord: Doubt
not, neither be affraid; for this Sacrament is greater then all the rest; And the Lord
joyned it unto him, When thou look'st into this Note and read'st the Orations
thereof, observe the precepts before, and diligently look into them; And beware that
thou prudently conceal and keep whatsoever thou read'st in this Note of God, and
whatsoever shall be revealed to thee in the vision. And when the Angel of the Lord
appeareth to thee, keep and conceal the words and writings he revealeth to thee; and
observe them to praice and operate in them, observing all things with great rever-
ence, and pronounce them at the appointed dayes and hours, as before is direed;
and afterwards say; Sapienter die illo; Age, & caste vivas. But if thou dost anything
uncertain, there is danger; as thou wilt have experience from the other Notes and
Orations of them, but consider that which is most wonderful in those Orations; for
these words are ineffable Names, and are spiritually to be pronounced before the
ineffable Note, Hosel, Jesel, Anchiator, Aratol, Hasiatol, Gemor, Gesameor. Those are the
Orations which ought to be pronounced after the inspeion of all the Arts, and after
the Note of Theology.

33
This is the fulfilling of the whole work; but what is necessary for an experiment
of the work, we will more plainly declare. In the beginning of the knowledge of all
Arts there is given almost the perfe Dorine of operating: I say almost, because
some flourishing institutions hereof remain, whereof this is the first beginning.
How the Precepts are to be observed in the operation of all Arts.
Observe the 4  in every operation of Theology. Exhibit that operation with effi-
cacy every 4  quartram lunam; and diligently look into the books and writings of
those Arts; if thou doubt of any of the Chapters, they are to be pronounced, as is
taught of the superior Chapters; but know this, that these Holy Words of Orations,
we appoint to be said before the bed of the sick, for an experiment of life or death.
And this thou maist do often, if thou wil to perate nothing else in the whole body of
Art: And know this; that if thou hast not the books in thy hands, or the faculty of
looking into them is not given to thee; the effe of this work will not be the lesse
therefore: but the Orations are twice then to be pronounced, where they were to be
but once: And as to the knowledge of a vision, and the other virtues which these
Holy Orations have; thou maist prove and try them, when and how thou wilt.
These Precepts are specially to be observed.
But when thou would'st operate in Theology, observe only those dayes which are
appointed; but all times are convenient for those Notes and Orations, for which there
is a competent time given; but in the pronounciation of the three liberal Arts, or in
the inspeion of their Notes, perhaps thou maist pretermit some day appointed, if
thou observe the rest; or if thou transgress two dayes, leave not off the work, for it
loseth not its effe for this, for the Moon is more to be observed in the greater num-
bers than the dayes or hours. For Solomon saith, If thou miss a day or two, fear not,
but operate on the general Chapters. This is enough to say of them: but by no means
forget any of the words which are to be said in the beginning of the reading to attain
to Arts; for there is great virtue in them. And thou maist frequently use the Holy
Words of the visions: but if thou wouldst operate in the whole body of the Physical
Art, the first Chapters are first to be repeated as before are defined. And in Theology,
thou must operate only by thy self: Often repeat the Orations, and look into the
Notes of Theology: this produceth great effes. It is necessary that thou have the
Note of the 24 Angels always in Memory; and faithfully keep those things, which the
Angel reveales to thee in the vision.
The Experiment of the precedent work, is the beginning of the following Orations, which
Solomon calleth Artem Novam.1
These Orations may be said before all Arts generally, and before Notes specially; and
they may be pronounced without any other Chapters, if thou wouldst operate in any
1. This section begins Part III of the text. Note that the fifth section of the Lemegeton is also
called Artem Novem, but the prayers there bear no relation to those shown here.

34
of the aforesaid Arts, saying these Orations in due time and order; thou maist have
great efficacy in any Art. And in saying these Orations, neither the time, day, nor
Moon, are to be observed: but take heed, that on these dayes you abstain from all sin,
as drunkenness, gluttony, especially swearing, before you proceedeth thereunto, that
your knowledge therein may be the more clear and perfe.
Wherefore Solomon saith, When I was to pronounce these Orations, I feared
lest I should offend God; and I appointed unto myself a time wherein to begin them;
that living chastly, I might appear the more innocent.
These are the Proemiums of these Orations, that I might lay down in order
everything whereof thou maist doubt, without any definition. And before thou begin
to try any of these subtle works, it is good to fast two or three dayes; that is may be
Divinely revealed, whether thy desires be good or evil.
These are the precepts appointed before every operation; but if thou doubt of
any beginning, either of the three first Chapters, or of the four subsequent Arts, that
thou maist have the effe of perfe knowledge; if thou consider and pronounce
these Orations, as they are above described, although thou overpass something igno-
rantly; thou maist be reconciled by the spiritual virtue of the subsequent Orations.
The Angel said of these Orations to Solomon: See the Holiness of these Ora-
tions; and if thou hast transgrest any therein presumtuously or ignorantly, say rever-
ently and wisely these Orations, of which the Angel saith: This is a great Sacrament
of God, which the Lord sendeth to thee by my hand; at the veneration of which Sac-
rament, when King Solomon offered with great patience before the Lord upon the
Alter, he saw the book covered with fine linen, and in this book were written 10 Ora-
tions, and upon every Oration the sign of a golden Seal: and he heard in his Spirit,
These are they which the Lord hath figured, and are far excluded from the hearts of
the unfaithful.
Therefore Solomon trembled, lest he should offend the Lord, and kept them,
saying it was wickedness to reveal them to unbelievers: but he that would learn any
greator spiritual thing in any Art or necessary Science, if he cannot have a higher
work, he may say these Orations at what time soever he will; the three first, for the
three first liberal Arts; a several Oration for every several Art, or generally all of the
three for the three Arts are to be said; and in like manner the four subsequent Ora-
tions, for four other liberal Arts. And if thou wouldst have the whole body of Art,
without any definition of time, thou maist pronounce these Orations before the sev-
eral Arts, and before the Orations and Notes of these Arts, as often as thou wilt,
manifestly and secretly; but beware that thou live chastly and soberly in the pronoun-
ciation thereof.
This is the first Oration of the 10, which may be pronounced by its self, without
any precedent work to acquire Memory, Eloquence and understanding, and stable-
ness of these three, and singularly to be rehearsed before the first Figure of Theology:
Omnipotent, Incomprehensible, invisible and indissolvable Lord God; I adore this
day thy Holy Name; I, an unworthy and miserable sinner, do lift up my Prayer,
understanding and reason towards thy Holy and Heavenly Temple, declaring thee, O

35
Lord God, to be my Creator and Savior: and I, a rational Creature do this day Invo-
cate thy most glorious clemency, that thy Holy Spirit may vivify my infirmity: And
thou, Oh my God, who didst confer the Elements of letters, and efficacious Dorine
of thy Tongue to thy Servants Moses and Aaron, confer the same grace of thy sweet-
ness upon me, which thou hast investigated into thy Servants and Prophets: as thou
hast given them learning in a moment, confer the same learning upon me, and
cleanse my Conscience from dead works; dire my Heart into the right way, and
open the same to understand, and drop truth into my understanding, And thou, Oh
Lord God, who didst condescend to create me in thy own image, hear me in thy Jus-
tice, and teach me in thy truth, and fill up my Soul with thy knowledge according to
thy great mercy, that in the multitude of thy mercies, thou maist love me the more,
and the greater in thy works, and that I may delight in the administration of thy
Commandments; that I being helped and restored by the work of thy grace, and
purified in Heart and Conscience to trust in thee, I may feast in thy sight, and exalt
thy Name, for it is good, before thy Saints: Sanifie me this day, that I may live in
faith, perfe in hope, and constant in charity, and may learn and obtain the knowl-
edge I desire; and being illuminated, strengthened and exalted by the Science
obtained, I may know thee, and love thee, and love the knowledge and wisdome of
the Scriptures; and that I may understand and firmly retain, that which thou hast
permitted Man to know: Oh Lord Jesus Christ, eternal only begotten Son of God,
into whose hands the Father gave all thing before all Worlds, give unto me this day,
for thy Holy and glorious Name, the unspeakable nutriment of Soul and Body, a fit,
fluent, free and perfe Tongue; and that whatsoever I shall ask in thy mercy, will and
truth, I may obtain; and confirm all my Prayers and aions, according to thy good
pleasure. Oh Lord my God, the Father of Life, open the Fountain of Sciences, which
I desire; open to me, Oh Lord, the Fountain which thou openest to Adam, and to thy
Servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to understand, learn and judge; receive Oh Lord
my Prayers, through all thy Heavenly virtues, Amen.
The next Oration is the second of ten, and giveth Eloquence, which ought to be
said after the other; a little interval in between, and before the first Figure of Theol-
ogy.
I Adore thee, thou King of Kings, and Lords, eternal and unchangeable King:
Hearken this day to the cry and sighing of my Heart and Spirit, that thou maist
change my understanding, and give to me a heart of flesh, for my heart of stone, that
I may breathe before my Lord and Savior; and wash Oh Lord with thy new Spirit
the inward parts of my heart, and wash away the evil of my flesh: infuse into me a
good understanding, that I may become a new man; reform me in thy love, and let
thy salvation give me increase of knowledge: hear my Prayers, O Lord, wherewith I
cry unto thee, and open the Eyes of my flesh, and understanding, to understand the
wonderful things of thy Law; that being vivified by thy Justification, I may prevail
against the Devil, the adversary of the faithful; hear me Oh Lord my God, and be
merciful unto me, and shew me thy mercy; and reach to me the vessel of Salvation,
that I may drink and be satisfied of the Fountain of thy grace, that I may obtain the

36
knowledge and understanding; and let the grace of thy Holy Spirit come, and rest
upon me, Amen.
For Eloquence and stability of mind.
This is the third Oration of the ten, and is to be said before the first Figure of
Astronomy.
I confesse my self guilty this day before thee Oh God, Father of Heaven and
Earth, Maker of all things, visible and invisible, of all Creatures, Dispenser and giver
of all grace and virtue; who hidest wisdome and knowledge from the proud and
wicked, and givest it to the faithful and humble; illuminate my Heart, and establish
my Conscience and understanding: set the light of thy countenance upon me, that I
may love thee, and be established in the knowledge of my understanding, that I being
cleansed from evil works, may attain to the knowledge of those Sciences, which thou
hast reserved for believers. Oh merciful and Omnipotent God, cleanse my Heart and
reins, strengthen my Soul and Senses with the grace of thy Holy Spirit, and establish
me with the fire of the same grace: illuminate me; gird up my loyns, and give the
staffe of thy Consolation into my right hand, dire me in thy Dorine; root out of
me all vices and sin, and comfort me in the love of thy mercies: Breathe into me, Oh
Lord, the breath of Life, and increase my reason and understanding; send thy Holy
Spirit into me, that I may be perfe in all knowledge: behold Oh Lord, and consider
the dolour of my mind, that my wil may be comforted in thee; send into me from
Heaven thy Holy Spirit, that I may understand those things I desire. Give unto me
invention, Oh Lord, thou Fountain of perfe reason and riches of knowledge, that I
may obtain wisdom by thy Divine assistance, Amen.
To Comfort the outward and inward Senses.
Oh Holy God, mercyful and omnipotent Father, Giver of all things; strengthen me
by thy power, and help me by thy presence, as thou wert mercyful to Adam, and sud-
denly gavest him the knowledge of all Arts through thy great mercy; grant unto me
power to obtain the same knowledge by the same mercy: be present with me Oh
Lord, and instru me: Oh most merciful Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, breathe thy
Holy Spirit into me, proceeding from thee and the Father; strengthen my work this
day, and teach me, that I may walk in thy knowledge, and glorify the abundance of
thy grace: Let the flames of thy Holy Spirit rejoyce the City of my Heart, by breath-
ing into me thy Divine Scriptures; replenish my Heart with all Eloquence, and vivify
me with thy Holy visitation; blot out of me the spots of all vices, I beseech thee, Oh
Lord God incomprehensible; let thy grace always be rest upon me, and be increased
in me; heal my Soul by thy inestimable goodness, and comfort my heart all my life,
that what I hear I may understand, and what I understand I may keep, and retain in
my Memory; give me a teachable Heart and Tongue; through thy inexhaustible grace
and goodness; and the grace of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, Amen.

37
This following is for the Memory.
O Holy Father, merciful Son, and Holy Ghost, inestimable King; I adore, invocate,
and beseech thy Holy Name that of thy overflowing goodness, thou wilt forget all my
sins: be mercyful to me a sinner, presuming to go about this office of knowledge, and
occult learning; and grant, Oh Lord, it may be efficatious in me; open Oh Lord, my
ears, that I may hear; and take away the scales from my Eyes, that I may see;
strengthen my hands, that I may work; open my face, that I may understand thy will;
to the glory of thy Name, which is blessed forever, Amen.
This following strengtheneth the interior and exterior Senses.
Lift up the senses of my Heart and Soul unto thee, Oh Lord my God, and elevate
my heart this day unto thee; that my words and works may please thee in the sight of
all people; let thy mercy and omnipotency shine in my bowels: let my understanding
be enlarged, and let thy Holy Eloquence be sweet in my mouth, that what I read or
hear I may understand and repeat: as Adam understood, and as Abraham kept, so let
me keep understanding; and as Jacob was founded and rooted in thy wisdom, so let
me be: let the foundation of thy mercy be confirmed in me, that I may delight in the
works of thy hands, and persevere in Justice, and peace of Soul and Body; the grace
of thy Holy Spirit working in me, that I may rejoyce in the overthrow of all my
adversaryes, Amen.
This following giveth Eloquence, Memory and Stability.
Disposer of all Kingdomes, and of all visible and invisible gifts: Oh God, the
Ordainer and Ruler of all wills, by the Counsel of thy Holy Spirit dispose and vivify
the weakness of my understanding, that I may burn in the accesse of thy Holy will to
good: do good to me in thy good pleasure, not looking upon my sins; grant me my
desire, though unworthy; confirm my Memory and reason to know, understand, and
retain, and give good effe to my sense through thy grace, and justify me with the
justification of thy Holy Spirit, that what spots soever of sin are contraed in my
flesh, thy Divine power may blot out; thou who hast been pleased in the beginning,
to create the Heaven and the Earth, of thy mercy restore the same, who art pleased to
restore lost man to thy most Holy Kingdome; Oh Lord of wisdome, restore Elo-
quence into all my senses, that I, though an unworthy sinner, may be confirmed in
thy knowledge, and in all thy works, by the grace of the Father, Son, and Holy
Ghost, who livest and reignest three in one, Amen.
An Oration to recover lost wisdome.
Oh God of the living, Lord of all Creatures visible and invisible, Administrator and
Dispenser of all things, enlighten my Heart this day by the grace of thy Holy Spirit,
strengthen my inward man, and pour into me the dew of thy grace, whereby thou
instruest the Angels; inform me with the plenty of thy knowledge, wherewith from
the beginning thou hast taught thy faithful; let thy grace work in me, and the flouds

38
of thy grace and Spirit, cleanse and corre the filth of my Conscience. Thou who
comest from Heaven upon the Waters of thy Majesty, confirm this wonderful Sacra-
ment in me.
To obtain the grace of the Holy Spirit.
Oh Lord my God, Father of all things, who revealest thy celestial and terrestrial
secrets to thy Servants, I humbly beseech and implore thy Majesty, as thou art the
King and Prince of all knowledge, hear my Prayers; and dire my works, and let my
aions prevail in Heavenly virtues, by thy Holy Spirit: I cry unto thee, Oh God, hear
my Clamor; I sigh to thee, hear the sighings of my Heart, and always preserve my
Spirit, Soul and Body, under the Safeguard of thy Holy Spirit; Oh God thou Holy
Spirit, perpetual and Heavenly charity, whereof the Heaven and Earth is full, breathe
upon my operation; and what I require to thy honor and praise, grant unto me; let
thy Holy Spirit come upon me, rule and reign in me, Amen.
To recover intellectual wisdome.
Oh Lord, I thy Servant confesse myself unto thee, before the Majesty of thy glory, in
whose Spirit is all Magnificence and Sanimony: I beseech thee according to thy
unspeakable Name, extend thy merciful Ears and Eyes to the office of my operation;
and opening thy hand, I may be filled with the grace I desire, and satiated with char-
ity and goodness; whereby thou hast founded Heaven and Earth, who livest, &c.
Say these Orations from the first day of the month, to the fourth day: in the
fourth day Alpha and Omaega, and that following it, viz. Helischemat azatan; As it is
in the beginning: afterwards say,
Theos Megale patyr, ymas, heth, heldya, hebeath, heleotezygel, Sabatyel, Salus, Telli,
Samel, Zadaziel, Zadan, Sadiz Leogio, Yemegas, Mengas, Omchon Myenoym, Ezel,
Ezely, Yegrogamal, Sameldach, Somelta, Sanay, Geltonama, Hanns, Simon Salte, Patyr,
Osyon, Hate, Haylos, Amen.
Oh Light of the World, immense God, &c.
Hereby is increased so much Eloquence that nothing is above it.
Thezay lemach ossanlomach azabath azach azare gessemon relaame azathabelial bil-
iarsonor tintingote amussiton sebamay halbuchyre gemaybe redayl hermayl textos sepha
pamphilos Cytrogoomon bapada lampdayochim yochyle tahencior yastamor Sadomegol
gyeleiton zomagon Somasgei baltea achetom gegerametos halyphala semean utangelsemon
barya therica getraman sechalmaia balnat hariynos haylos halos genegat gemnegal saney-
alaix samartaix camael satabmal simalena gaycyah salmancha sabanon solmasay silimacro-
tox zegas me bacherietas zemethim theameabal gezorabal craton henna glungh hariagil
parimegos zamariel leozomach rex maleosia mission zebmay aliaox gemois sazayl neomagil
Xe Xe Sepha caphamal azeton gezain holhanhihala semeanay gehosynon caryacta gemya-
zan zeamphalachin zigelaman hathanatos, semach gerorabat syrnosyel, halaboem hebalor
halebech ruos sabor ydelmasan salior sabor megiozgoz neyather pharamshe forantes saza

39
mogh schampeton sadomthe nepotz minaba zanon suafnezenon inhancon maninas gereu-
ran gethamayh passamoth theon beth sathamec hamolnera galsemariach nechomnan regnali
phaga messyym demogempta teremegarz salmachaon alpibanon balon septzurz sapremo
sapiazte baryon aria usyon sameszion sepha athmiti sobonan Armissiton tintingit telo ylon
usyon, Amen.
Azay lemach azae gessemon thelamech azabhaihal sezyon traheo emagal gyeotheon
samegon pamphilos sitragramon limpda jachim alna hasios genonagai samalayp camiel
secal hanagogan heselemach getal sam sademon sebmassan traphon oriaglpax thonagas tyn-
gen amissus coysodaman assonnap senaly sodan alup theonantriatos copha anaphial Aza-
thon azaza hamel hyala saraman 	gelyor synon banadacha gennam sassetal maga
halgozaman setraphangon zegelune Athanathay senach zere zabal somayel leosamach gith-
acal halebriatos Jaboy del masan negbare phacarnech schon nebooz cherisemach gethazayhy
amilya semem ames gemay passaynach tagaylagamal fragal mesi themegemach samalacha
nabolem zopmon usyon felam semessi theon, Amen.
The third part, the sign Lemach.
Lemach 	sabrice 	elchyan 	gezagan 	tomaspin 	hegety 	gemial 	exyophyam 	soratum
salathahom bezapha saphatez Calmiehan samolich lena zotha phete him hapnies sengen-
geon lethis, Amen.
For the Memory.
Oh great invisible God, Theos patyr behominas Cadagamias imas by thy Holy Angels,
who are Michael, the Medicine of God; Raphael, the Fortitude of God, Gabriel ardens
holy per Amassan, Cherubin, Gelommeios, Sezaphim gedabanan, tochrosi gade anathon,
zatraman zamanary gebrienam: Oh fulness, Holy Cherubins, by all thy Angels, and
by all thy glorious Archangels, whose Names are consecrated by God, which ought
not to be spoken by us, which are these: dichal, dehel depymon exluse exmegon pharconai
Nanagon hossyelozogon gathena raman garbona vramani Mogon hamas; Which humane
Sense cannot apprehend: I beseech thee, Oh Lord illuminate my Conscience with
the splender of thy Light, and illustrate and confirm my understanding with the
sweet odor of thy Spirit, adorne my Soul, reform my heart, that hearing I may under-
stand, and retain what I hear in my Memory. Oh merciful God, appease my bowels,
strengthen my Memory, open my mouth mercifully; temperate my Tongue by thy
glorious and unspeakable Name: thou who art the Fountain of all goodness, have
patience with me, and give a good Memory unto me, &c.
Say these Orations in the fourth , viz. Hely Schemath, Alpha and Omega,
Theos megale. Oh Light of the world Azalemach, great God I beseech thee: these
ought to be said in the 8, 10, 12, 20, 24, 28, 30, and in all these Lunations rehearse
them four times; in the morning once, the third hour once, the ninth once, and once
in the evening; and in the other dayes rehearse none, but them of the first day, which
are Alpha and Omega, Helyschemat, Almighty, incomprehensible, I adore thee; I
confess myself guilty: O Theos hazamagiel: Oh merciful Lord God, raise up the

40
senses of my flesh: Oh God of all being, and of all Kingdoms, I confess Oh Lord this
day, that I am thy Servant. Rehearse these Orations also in the other dayes four
times, once in the morning, once in the evening, once about the third hour, and once
in the ninth; And thou shalt acquire Memory, Eloquence and stability fully, Amen.
The Conclusion of the whole work, and of the Science obtained.
Oh God, Maker of all things; who hast created all things out of nothing; who hast
wonderfully created the Heaven and Earth, and all things by degrees in order, in the
beginning, with thy Son, by whom all things are made, and into whom all things
shall at last return: Who art Alpha and Omega: I beseech thee though a sinner &
unworthy, that I may attain to my desired end in this Holy Art, speedily, and not lose
the same by my sins; but do good unto me, according to thy unspeakable mercy: who
doth not to us after our sins, nor reward us after our inequities, Amen. Say this in the
end devoutly: Oh wisdome of God the Father incomprehensible, Oh most mercyful
Son, give unto me of thy ineffable mercy, great knowledge and wisdome, as thou
didst wonderfully bestow all Science to King Solomon, not looking upon his sins or
wickedness, but thy own mercies: wherefore I implore thy mercy, although I am a
most vile and unworthy sinner, give such an end to my desires in this Art, whereby
the hands of thy bounty may be enlarged towards me, and that I may the more
devoutly walk by thy light in thy wayes, and be a good example to others; by which
all that see me, and hear me, may restrain themselves from their vices, and praise thy
holyness through all Worlds, Amen. Blessed be the Name of the Lord, &c. rehearse
these two Orations always in the end, to confirm thy knowledge gained.
The Benediction of the place.
Bless Oh Lord this place, that there may be in it Holy Sanity, chastity, meekness,
viory, holiness, humility, goodness, plenty, obedience of the Law, to the Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost; Hear Oh Lord, Holy Father, Almighty eternal God; And
send thy Holy Angel Michael, who may prote, keep, preserve and visit me, dwell-
ing in this Tabernacle, by him who liveth, &c.
When you would operate, have respe to the Lunations: they are to be chosen
in those moneths, when the  rules in  and 	, 	 . In these moneths you
may begin.
In the Name of the Lord beginneth this most Holy Art, which the most high
God Administered to Solomon by his Angel upon the Alter, that thereby suddenly in
a short space of time, he was established in the knowledge of all Sciences; and know,
that in these Orations are contained all Sciences, Lawful and unlawful: First, if you
pronounce the Orations of Memory, Eloquence, and understanding, and the stability
thereof; they will be mightily increased, insomuch that you will hardly keep silence;
for by a word all things were Created, and the virtue of that word all created beings
stand, and every Sacrament, and that Word is God. Therefore let the Operator be
constant in his faith, and confidently believe, that he shall obtain such knowledge

41
and wisdome, in the pronouncing these Orations, for with God nothing is impossi-
ble: therefore let the Operator proceed in his work, with faith, hope, and a constant
desire: firmly believing; because we can obtain nothing but by faith; Therefore have
no doubt in this Operation, whereof there are three species, whereby the Art may be
obtained.
The first species is Oration and reason of a Godly mind, not by attempting a
voyce of deprecation, but by reading and repeating the same in the inward parts. The
second species is fasting and praying, for the praying man God heareth. The third
species is chastity; he that would Operate in this Art, let him be clean and chast by
the space of nine dayes at least; And before you begin, it is necessary that you know
the time of the  it is proper to Operate in this Art: and when you begin so sacred
an Art, have a care to abstain from all mortal sins, at least while you are proceeding in
this work until it be finished and compleated: and when you begin to operate, say this
verse kneeling: Lift up the light of thy Countenance upon me, Oh Lord my God,
and forsake not me thy Servant N. that trusts in thee: Then say three times Pater
Noster, &c. And assert that thou wilt never commit wilfull perjury, but alwayes perse-
vere in faith and hope. This being done, with bended knees in the place wherein thou
wilt operate, say, Our help is in the Name of the Lord, who hath made Heaven and
Earth: and I will enter into the Invocation of the most high, unto him who enlighte-
neth and purifieth my Soul and Conscience, which dwelleth under the help of the
most high, and continueth under the proteion of the God of Heaven: O Lord open
and unfold the doubts of my Heart, and change me into a new man by thy love: be
thou Oh Lord unto me true faith, the hope of my life, and perfe charity, to declare
thy wonders. Let us pray: then say the Oration following:
Oh God my God, who from the beginning hast Created all things out of noth-
ing, and reformest all things by thy Spirit; restore my Conscience, and heal my
understanding, that I may glorify thee in all my thoughts, words and deeds; through
him who liveth and reigneth with thee forever, Amen.
Now in the Name of Christ, on the first day of the Month, in which thou
wouldst acquire Memory, Eloquence and Understanding, and stability thereof, with
a perfe, good and contrite Heart, and sorrow for thy sins committed; thou maist
begin to pronounce these Orations following, which appertain to the obtaining of
Memory and all Sciences, and which were composed and delivered by the Angel to
Solomon, from the hand of God.
The first and last Oration of this Art is Alpha and Omega: Oh God omnipo-
tent, &c.
This following is an Oration of four Languages, which is this: Hely, Schemat,
Azatan, honiel sichut, tam, imel, Iatatandema, Jetromiam, Theos: Oh Holy and strong
God, Hamacha, mal, Gottneman, Alazaman, zay, zojeracim, Lam hay, Masaraman,
grensi zamach, heliamat, seman, selmar, yetrosaman muchaer, vesar, hasarian Azaniz,
Azamet, Amathemach, hersomini. And thou most Holy and just God, incomprehensi-
ble in all thy works, which are Holy just and good; Magol, Achelmetor, samelsace, yana,
Eman, and cogige, maimegas, zemmael, Azanietan, illebatha sacraman, reonas, grome,

42
zebaman, zeyhoman, zeonoma, melas, heman, hathoterma, yatarmam, semen, semetary,
Amen. This Oration ought to follow the first of the ten above written.
To perform any work.
This is to follow the third Oration above: I confess, O Theos hazamagielgezuzan,
sazaman, Sathaman, getormantas, salathiel, nesomel, megal, vnieghama, yazamir, zeyha-
man, hamarnal amna, nisza, deleth, hazamaloth, moy pamazathoran, hanasuelnea, sacro-
momem, gegonoman, zaramacham Cades bachet girtassoman, gyseton palaphatos halathel
Osachynan machay, Amen.
This is a true and approved experiment, to understand all Arts and secrets of the
World, to find out and dig up minerals and treasure; This was revealed by the Heav-
enly Angel in this Notory Art. For this Art doth also declare things to come, and
rendereth the sense capable of all Arts in a short time, by the Divine use thereof.
We are to speak also of the time and place. First therefore, all these precepts are
to be observed and kept; and the Operator ought to be clean, chaste, to repent of his
sins, and earnestly desire to cease from sinning as much as may be; and so let him
proceed, and every work shall be investigated into him, by the Divine Ministery.
When thou wilt operate in the new Moon, kneeling say this verse: Lift up the
light of thy Countenance upon us, Oh God, and forsake us not, Oh Lord our God.
Then say three times the Pater Noster: And afterwards let him vow unto God that he
will never commit wilfull perjury, but alwayes persist in faith. This being done, at
night say with bended knees before thy bed; Our help is in the Name of the Lord,
&c. and this Psalm; Whoso dwelleth under the shadow of the wings of the most
high, to the end; and the Lords Prayer, and the Prayer following.
Theos Pater vehamans; God of Angels, I Pray and invocate thee by thy most
Holy Angels Eliphamasay, Gelomiros, Gedo bonay, Saranana, Elomnia, and by all the
Holy Names, by us not to be pronounced, which are these: do. el. x p n k h t li g y y.
not to be spoken, or comprehended by humane sense; I beseech thee, cleanse my
Conscience with the Splendor of thy Name; illustrate and confirm my understanding
with the sweet savour of thy Holy Spirit: Oh Lord Adorne my Soul, that I may
understand and perfely remember what I hear; reform my Heart, and restore my
Heart, and restore my sense Oh Lord God, and heal my bowels: open my mouth
most merciful God, and frame and temper my Tongue to the praise and glory of thy
Name, by thy glorious and unspeakable Name. O Lord, who art the Fountain of all
goodness, and original of all piety, have patience with me, and give unto me a true
understanding, to know whatsoever is fitting for me, and retain the same in Memory:
thou who dost not presently Judge a sinner, but mercifully expeest repentance; I
beseech thee, though unworthy, to wash away the filth of my sins and wickedness,
and grant me my petitions, to the praise and glory of thy Holy Name; who liveth and
reignest one God in perfe Trinity, World without end, Amen.

43
Some other precepts to be observed in this work.
Fast the day following with bread and water, and give Almes; if it be the Lords day,
then give double Almes; be clean in body and mind; both thy self, and put on clean
Cloaths.
The processe follows.
When thou wilt Operate concerning any difficult Probleme or Question, with
bended knees, before thy bed, make Confession unto God the Father; and having
made the Confession, say this Oration.
Send Oh Lord thy wisdome to assist me, that it may be with me, and labour
with me, and that I may alwayes know what is acceptable before thee; And that unto
me N. may be manifested the truth of this question or Art.
This being done, Thrice in the day following, when thou risest, give thanks to
God Almighty, saying; Glory and honour, and benediion be unto him that sitteth
on the Throne, and that liveth for ever and ever, Amen. with bended knees and
stretched out hands.
But if thou desirest to understand any book, ask of some that hath knowledge
therein, what that book treateth of: This being done, open the book, and read in it,
and operate as at first three times, and always when thou goest to sleep, write Alpha
and Omega, and afterwards sleep on thy right side, putting the palme of thy hand
under thy Ear, and thou shalt see in a dream all things thou desirest; And thou shalt
hear the voice of one informing and instruing thee in that book, or in any other fac-
ulty wherein thou wilt operate: And in the morning, open the book, and read therein;
and thou shalt presently understand the same, as if thou hadst studyed in it a long
time: And alwayes remember to give thanks to God, as aforesaid.
Afterwards on the first day say this Oration: Oh Father, Maker of all Creatures;
by the unspeakable power wherewith thou hast made all things, stir up the same
power, and come and save me, and prote me from all adversity of Soul and Body,
Amen. Of the Son, say, O Christ, Son of the living God, who art the Splendor and
Figure of light, with whom there is no alteration nor shadow of change; Thou Word
of God most high, thou wisdome of the Father; open unto me, thy unworthy servant
N., the veins of thy saving Spirit, that I may wisely understand retain in Memory,
and declare all thy wonders: Oh wisdome, who proceedest out of the mouth of the
most high, powerfully reaching from end to end, sweetly disposing of all things in
the World, come and teach me the way of prudence and wisdome. Oh Lord which
didst give thy Holy Spirit to thy Disciples, to teach and illuminate their Hearts,
grant unto me, thy unworthy servant N. the same Spirit, and that I may alwayes
rejoyce in his consolation.
Other precepts.
Having finished these Orations, and given Almes, when thou entrest into thy Cham-
ber, devoutly kneel down before thy bed, saying this Psalm: Have mercy upon me, O

44
God, according to the multitude of thy great mercies, &c. and, In thee Oh Lord have
I trusted, &c. Then rise up, and go to the wall, and stretch forth thy hands, having
two nayles fixed, upon which thou maist stay up thy hands, and say this Prayer fol-
lowing with great devotion: O God, who for us miserable sinners didst undergo the
painful death upon the Crosse; to whom also Abraham offer'd up his Son Isaac; I thy
unworthy servant, a sinner perplexed with many evils, do this day offer up and Sacri-
fice unto thee my Soul and Body, that thou maist infuse into me thy Divine wis-
dome, and inspire me with the Spirit of Prophesy, wherewith thou didst inspire the
Holy Prophets.
Afterwards say this Psalm; Oh Lord incline thine Ears unto my words, &c. and
add, The Lord is my Shepherd, and nothing shall I want: he shall set me down in
green pastures, his servant N., he shall lead me upon the waters of refreshment, he
coverteth my Soul, and leadeth me N., upon the paths of his righteousness for his
Holy Name: Let my evening Prayer ascend up into thee Oh Lord, and let thy mercy
descend upon me, thy unworthy servant N., prote, save, blesse, and sanify me,
that I may have a shield against all the wicked darts of my enemies: defend me Oh
Lord by the price of the blood of the just One, wherewith thou hast redeemed me;
who livest and reignest God, whose wisdom hath laid the foundation of Heaven &
formed the Earth, & placed the Sea in her bounds: and by the going forth of thy
Word hast made all Creatures, and hath formed man out of the dust of the Earth,
according to his own image and likeness; who gave to Solomon, the Son of King
David inestimable wisdome; hath given to the Prophets the Spirit of Prophesy, and
infused into Philosophers wonderful Philosophical knowledge, confirmed the Apos-
tles with fortitude, comforted and strengthened the Martyrs, who exalted his ele
from aeternity, and provideth for them; Multiply Oh Lord God, thy mercy upon me,
thy unworthy servant N., by giving me a teachable wit, and an understanding
adorned with virtue and knowledge, a firm and sound Memory, that I may accom-
plish and retain whatsoever I endevour, through the greatness of thy wonderful
Name; lift up, Oh Lord my God, the light of thy countenance upon me, that hope in
thee: Come and teach me, Oh Lord God, of virtues, and shew me thy face, and I
shall be safe. Then add this Psalm: Unto thee Oh Lord do I lift up my Soul: Oh my
God in thee do I trust; excepting that verse, Canfundantur, &c.
Having fulfilled these things upon the wall, descend unto thy bed, writing in thy
right hand Alpha and Omega: then go to bed, and sleep on thy right side, holding
thy hand under thy right Ear, and thou shalt see the greatness of God as thou hast
desired. And in the morning, on thy knees, before thy bed, give thanks unto God for
those things he hath revealed unto thee, I give thanks unto thee, Oh great and won-
derful God, who hast given Salvation and knowledge of Arts unto me, thy unworthy
servant N., and confirm this Oh God, which thou hast wrought in me, in preserving
me. I give thanks unto thee, O powerful Lord God, who createdst me, miserable sin-
ner out of nothing, when I was not, and when I was utterly lost; and not redeemed,
but by the precious blood of thy Son our Lord Jesus Christ; and when I was ignorant
thou hast given unto me learning and knowledge: grant unto me thy unworthy ser-

45
vant N., O Lord Jesus Christ, that through this knowledge, I may be always constant
in thy Holy service, Amen.
These Operations being devoutly compleated, give thanks daily with these last
Orations. But when thou wouldst read, study, or dispute, say, Remember thy word
unto thy servant, O Lord, in which thou hast given me hope; this is my comforter in
humility. Then add these Orations: Remember me O Lord of Lords, put good words
and speech into my mouth, that I may be heard efficaciously and powerfully, to the
praise, glory, and honor of thy glorious Name, which is Alpha and Omega, blessed
forever, World without end, Amen.
Then silently say these Orations.
O Lord God, that daily workest new signs and unchangable wonders, fill me
with the Spirit of wisdome, understanding and Eloquence; Make my mouth as a
sharp Sword, and my Tongue as an arrow eleed, & confirm the words of my mouth
to all wisdome: mollify the Hearts of the hearers to understand what they desire, Ely-
senach, Tzacham, &c.
The manner of Consecrating the Figure of Memory.
It ought to be consecrated with great faith hope and charity; and being consecrated,
to be kept and used in Operation as followeth.
On the first day of the new Moon, having beheld the new Moon, put the Figure
under your right Ear, and so consequently every other night, and seven times a day;
the first hour of the morning say this Psalm, Qui habitat, &c. throughout; and the
Lords Prayer once, and this Oration Theos Patyr once in the first hour of the day:
then say this Psalm, Confitebor tibi Domine, &c. and the Lords Prayer twice, and the
Oration Theos Patyr twice. In the third hour of the day say this Psalm Benedicicat
anima mea Dominum, &c. the Lords Prayer thrice, and the Oration Theos Patyr.
In the sixth hour say this Psalm: Appropinquet deprecato mea in conspectu tuo
Domine, secundun eloquium tuum.
Grant unto me Memory, and hear my voyce according to thy great mercy, and
according unto thy word grant Eloquence, and my lips shall shew forth thy majesty,
when thou shalt teach me thy Glory: Gloria patria, &c. Say the Lords Prayer nine
times, and Theos Patyr.
In the nineth hour say the Psalm Beati immaculati in via; the Lords Prayer 12
times, and Theos Patyr.
In the Evening say this Psalm, Deus misereatur nostri: the Lords Prayer 15 times,
and Theos Patyr as often.
The last hour say this Psalm, Deus Deus meus respice in me, &c., and Deus in adj-
utorium meum intende, and te Deum Lauadamus; the Lords Prayer once, and Theos
Patyr: then say the Oration following twice.
O God, who hast divided all things in number, weight, and measure, in hours,
nights and dayes; who countest the number of the Stars, give unto me constancy and

46
virtue, that in the true knowledge of this Art N., I may love thee, who knows the gifts
of thy goodness, who livest and reignest, &c.
Four days the Figure of Memory ought to be consecrated with these Orations.
O Father of all Creatures, of the Sun and the Moon.
Then on the last day let him bath himself, and put on clean garments, and clean
Ornaments, 1 and in a clean place, suffumigate himself with Frankincense, and come
in a convenient hour in the night with a light kindled, but so that no man may see
thee; and before the bed upon your knees, say this Oration with great devotion.
O most great and most Holy Father, seven or nine times: then put the Figure with
great reverence about your Head; and sleep in the bed with clean linen vestments,
and doubt not but you shall obtain whatsoever you desire: for this hath been proved
by many, to obtain such coelestial secrets of the Heavenly Kingdom are granted,
Amen.
The Oration following ought to be said as you stand up.
O great God, Holy Father, most Holy Sanifier of all Saints, three and one, most
high King of Kings, most powerful God Almighty, most glorious and most wise Dis-
pensor, Moderator, and Governour of all Creatures, visible and invisible: O mighty
God, whose terrible and most mighty Majesty is to be feared, whose omnipotency
the Heaven, the Earth, the Sea, Hell, and all things that are therein, do admire, rev-
erence, tremble at, and obey.
O most powerful, most mighty, and most invincible Lord God of Sabaoth: O
God incomprehensible; the wonderful Maker of all things, the Teacher of all learn-
ing, Arts and Sciences; who mercifully Instruest the humble and meek: O God of
all wisdome and knowledge, in whom are all Treasures of wisdome, Arts and Sci-
ences; who art able instantly to infuse Wisdome, Knowledge and Learning into any
Man; whose Eye beholdeth all things past, present, and to come; who art the daily
Searcher of all hearts; through whom we are, we live and dye; who sittest upon the
Cherubins; who alone seest and rulest the bottomless pit: whose Word gives Law
throughout the universal World: I confess myself this day before thy Holy and glori-
ous Majesty, and before the company of all Heavenly virtues and Potentates, praying
thy glorious Majesty, invocating thy great Name, which is a Name wonderful, and
above every Name, blessing thee O Lord my God: I also beseech thee, most high,
most omnipotent Lord, who alone art to be adored; O thou great and dreadful God
Adonay, wonderful Dispensator of all beatitudes, of all Dignities, and goodness;
Giver of all things, to whomsoever thou wilt, mercifully, aboundantly and perma-
1. Lectisternium, a Robe in which the Priests used to sleep in the Temples, to receive the
Divine Oracles. -- R.T.

47
nently: send down upon me this day the gift of the grace of thy Holy Spirit. And now
O most merciful God, who hast created Adam the first man, according to thy image
and likeness; fortify the Temple of my body, and let thy Holy Spirit descend and
dwell in my Heart, that I may shine forth the wonderful beams of thy Glory: as thou
hast been pleased wonderfully to operate in thy faithful Saints; So O God, most
wonderful King, and eternal glory, send forth from the seat of thy glorious Majesty a
seven-fold blessing of thy grace, the Spirit of Wisdome and Understanding, the
Spirit of fortitude and Counsel, the Spirit of knowledge and Godliness, the Spirit of
fear and love of thee, to understand thy wonderful Holy and occult mysteries, which
thou art pleased to reveal, and which are fitting for thine to know, that I may com-
prehend the depth, goodness, and inestimable sweetness of thy most immense
Mercy, Piety and Divinity. And now O most merciful Lord, who didst breathe into
the first Man the breath of life, be pleased this day to infuse into my Heart a true
perfe perceiving, powerful and right understanding in all things; a quick, lasting,
and indeficient Memory, and efficacious Eloquence; the sweet, quick and piercing
grace of thy Holy Spirit, and of the multitude of thy blessings, which which thou
bountifully bestowest: grant that I may despise all other things, and glorify thee
alone, the God of all things, the only true and perfe good, that I may forever glo-
rify, praise, adore, bless, and magnify thee the King of Kings, and Lord of Lords; and
alwayes set forth thy praise, mercy and omnipotency: that thy praise may alwayes be

48
in my mouth, and my Soul may be inflamed with thy Glory for ever before thee. O
thou, who art God omnipotents, King of all things, the greatest peace and perfeest
wisdome, ineffable and inestimable sweetness and delight, the unexpressable joy of
all good, the desire of all the blessed, their life, comfort, and glorious end; who was
from eternity, and is and ever shall be virtue invincible, without parts or passions;
Splendor and glory unquenchable; benediion, honor, praise, and venerable glory
before all Worlds, since and everlastingly time without end, Amen.
The following Oration hath power to expell all Lusts.
O Lord, Holy Father, omnipotent aeternal God, of inestimable mercy and immense
goodness; O merciful Jesus Christ, repairer and restorer of mankind; O Holy Ghost,
comforter and love of the faithful: who holdest all the Earth in thy fingers, and
weighest all the Mountains and Hills in the World; who dost wonders past searching
out, whose power there is nothing can resist, whose wayes are past finding out:
defend my Soul, and deliver my Heart from the wicked cogitations of this World;
extinguish and repress in me by thy power all the sparks of lust and fornication, that I
may more intentively love thy works, and that the virtue of the Holy Spirit may be
increased in me, among the saving gifts of thy faithful, to the comfort and salvation
of my Heart, Soul, and Body. O most great and most Holy God, Maker, Redeemer,
and Restorer of Mankind; I am thy servant, the Son of thy hand-maid, and the work
of thy hands: O most merciful God and Redeemer, I cry and sigh before the sight of
thy great Majesty, beseeching thee, with my whole Heart, to restore me, a miserable
sinner, and receive me to thy great mercy; give me Eloquence, Learning, and Knowl-
edge, that those that shall hear my words, they may be mellifluous in their Hearts;
that seeing and hearing thy wisdome, the proud may be made humble, and hear and
understand my words with great humility, and consider the greatness and goodness
of thy blessings, who livest and reignest now and forever, Amen.
Note, that if you desire to know anything that you are ignorant of, especially of
any Science, read this Oration: I confess myself to thee this day, O God the Father of
Heaven and Earth, three times; and in the end express for what you desire to be
heard; afterwards, in the Evening when you go to bed, say the Oration Theos
throughout, and the Psalm Qui Habitat, with this versicle, Emitte Spiritum; and go to
sleep, and take the Figure for this purpose, and put it under the right Ear: and about
the second or third hour of the night, thou shalt see thy desires, and know without
doubt that which thou desirest to find out: and write in thy right hand Alpha and
Omega, with the sign of the Cross, and put that hand under thy right Ear, and fast
the day before; only once eating such meat as is used on fasting dayes.
- Here endeth the Ars Notoria -
