A
NEW 	AND 	REVISED 	EDITION
AN 	ENCYCLOP A DIA
OF
FREEMASONRYAND
ITS KINDRED SCIENCES
COMPRISING
THE WHOLE RANGE OF ARTS, SCIENCES AND LITERATURE
AS CONNECTED WITH THE INSTITUTION
BY
ALBERT 	G . MACKEY, M .D ., 33°
AUTHOR OF "THE HISTORY OF FREEMASONRY," "LEXICON OF FREEMASONRY," "A TEXT-BOOK OF
MASONIC JURISPRUDENCE," "SYMBOLISM OF FREEMASONRY," ETC ., ETC .
THIS 	NEW 	AND 	REVISED 	EDITION
PREPARED UNDER THE DIRECTION, AND WITH
THE ASSISTANCE, OF THE LATE
WILLIAM J . HUGHAN, 32°
PAST GRAND DEACON (ENGLAND), PAST GRAND WARDEN (EGYPT), PAST GRAND WARDEN (IOWA), PAST
ASSISTANT GRAND SOJOURNER (ENGLAND), ONE OF THE FOUNDERS QUATUOR CORONATI
LODGE (LONDON) ; AUTHOR OF "ENGLISH MASONIC RITE," "OLD CHARGES," ETC .
BY
EDWARD 	L . HAWKINS, 	M .A ., 	30 °
PROV . S . G. W . (SUSSEX), P . PROP . S . G. W . (OXFORDSHIRE), MEMBER QUATUOR CORONATI
LODGE (LONDON), AUTHOR OF "CONCISE CYCLOPMDIA OF FREEMASONRY"
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
VOLUME I
PUBLISHED BY
THE MASONIC HISTORY COMPANY
NEW YORK AND LONDON
1914 .

COPYRIGHT, 1873 AND 1878, BY MOSS & CO . AND A . G . MACKEY
REVISED EDITION, WITH ADDENDUM, COPYRIGHT, 1884, BY L . H . EVERTB & CO .
PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY, COPYRIGHT, 1896, BY L . H . EVERTS
COPYRIGHT, 1906, BY LOUIS H . EVERTS & CO .
COPYRIGHT, 1909 . BY THE MASONIC HISTORY COMPANY
COPYRIGHT, 1912, BY THE MASONIC HISTORY COMPANY

PREFACE
I ONCE delivered an address before a Lodge on the subject of the external
changes which Freemasonry had undergone since the period of its revival in
the commencement of the eighteenth century . 	The proper treatment of the
topic required a reference to German, to French, and to English authorities,
with some of which I am afraid that many of my auditors were not familiar .
At the close of the address, a young and intelligent brother inquired of me how
he could obtain access to the works which I had cited, and of many of which he
confessed, as well as of the facts that they detailed, he now heard for the
first time . 	It is probable that my reply was not altogether satisfactory ; for
I told him that I knew of no course that he could adopt to attain that knowl-
edge except the one that had been pursued by myself, namely, to spend his
means in the purchase of Masonic books and his time in reading them .
But there are few men who have the means, the time, and the inclination
for the purchase of numerous books, some of them costly and difficult to be ob-
tained, and for the close and attentive reading of them which is necessary to
master any given subject .
It was this thought that, years ago, suggested to me the task of collecting
materials for a work which would furnish every Freemason who might consult
its pages the means of acquiring a knowledge of all matters connected with the
science, the philosophy, and the history of his Order .
But I was also led to the prosecution of this work by a higher considera-
tion . 	I had myself learned, from the experience of my early Masonic life,
that the character of the Institution was elevated in every one's opinion just in
proportion to the amount of knowledge that he had acquired of its symbolism,
philosophy, and history .
If Freemasonry was not at one time patronized by the learned, it was
because the depths of its symbolic science and philosophy had not been sounded .
If it is now becoming elevated and popular in the estimation of scholars, it
owes that elevation and that popularity to the labors of those who have studied
its intellectual system and given the result of their studies to the world .
The scholar will rise from the perusal of Webb's Monitor, or the Hieroglyphic
Chart of Cross, with no very exalted appreciation of the literary character of
1

f 	PREFACE
the Institution of which such works profess to be an exponent . 	But should he
have met with even Hutchinson's Spirit of Masonry, or Town's Speculative
Masonry, which are among the earlier products of Masonic literature, he will
be conscious that the system which could afford material for such works must
be worthy of investigation .
Oliver is not alone in the belief that the higher elevation of the Order is
to be attributed "almost solely to the judicious publications on the subject of
Freemasonry which have appeared during the present and the end of the
last century ." 	It is the press that is elevating the Order ; it is the labor of
its scholars that is placing it in the rank of sciences . 	The more that is pub-
lished by scholarly pens on its principles, the more will other scholars be at-
tracted to its investigation .
At no time, indeed, has its intellectual character been more justly appre-
ciated than at the present day . 	At no time have its members generally culti-
vated its science with more assiduity . At no time have they been more zealous
in the endeavor to obtain a due enlightenment on all the topics which its system
comprehends .
It was the desire to give my contribution toward the elevation of the
Order, by aiding in the dissemination of some of that light and knowledge
which are not so easy of access, that impelled me years ago to commence the
preparation of this work-a task which I have steadily toiled to accomplish,
and at which, for several years, I have wrought with unintermitted labor
that has permitted but little time for other occupation, and none for recreation .
And now I present to my brethren the result not only of those years of toil,
but of more than thirty years of study and research-a work - which will, I
trust, or at least I hope, supply them with the materials for acquiring a knowl-
edge of much that is required to make a Masonic scholar . Encyclopedic learn-
ing is not usually considered as more than elementary . 	But knowing that but
few Freemasons can afford time to become learned scholars in our art by an
entire devotion to its study, I have in important articles endeavored to treat the
subject exhaustively, and in all to give that amount of information that must
make future ignorance altogether the result of disinclination to learn .
I do not present this work as perfect, for I well know that the culminating
point of perfection can never be attained by human effort . 	But, under many
adverse circumstances, I have sought to make it as perfect as I could . 	Ency-
clopedias are, for the most part, the result of the conjoined labor of many
writers . 	In this work I have had no help . 	Every article was written by
myself . 	I say this not to excuse my errors-for I hold that no author should
wilfully permit an error to pollute his pages-but rather to account for those

PREFACE 	v
that may exist . I have endeavored to commit none . Doubtless there are some .
If I knew them, I would correct them ; but let him who discovers them remem-
ber that they have been unwittingly committed in the course of an exhaustive
and unaided task .
For twelve months, too, of the time in which I have been occupied upon
this work, I suffered from an affection of the sight, which forbade all use of
the eyes for purposes of study . During that period, now happily passed, all
authorities were consulted under my direction by the willing eyes of my daugh-
ters-all writing was done under my dictation by their hands . I realized for
a time the picture so often painted of the blind bard dictating his sublime
verses to his daughters . It was a time of sorrow for the student who could
not labor with his own organs in his vocation ; but it was a time of gladness
to the father who felt that he had those who, with willing hearts, could come
to his assistance . To the world this is of no import ; but I could not conscien-
tiously close this prefatory address without referring to this circumstance so
gratifying to a parent's heart . Were I to dedicate this work at all, my dedi-
cation should be-To FILIAL AFFECTION .
ALBERT G . MACKEY, M . D .

REVISER'S 	PREFACE
THE revision of this most comprehensive Encyclopedia has been a most
anxious and laborious task . 	I have endeavored to preserve as much as possible
of Dr . Mackey's work untouched, but at the same time to correct statements
which later investigations have shown to be unfounded ; thus I have left all of
Dr . Mackey's opinions and theories unaltered .
All completely new articles, or old ones with many alterations, I have
marked with my initials and I must take all responsibility for them, though
as far as possible they were submitted to Bro . Hughan for his approval .
I have to return hearty thanks for kind aid to the late Bro . Henry Sadler,
Librarian of the Grand Lodge of England ; to Bro . W . J . Songhurst, Secretary
of the Quatuor Coronati Lodge, No . 2076, London, England, for valuable ad-
vice and assistance on many points ; to Bro . the Rev . M . Rosenbaum, P . Prov . G .
Chaplain of Northumberland, for help with Hebrew words ; to Bro . John
Yarker, P . G . Warden of Greece, for information about the Antient and Primi-
tive Rite ; and to Bro. A . C . Powell, P . Prov . G . Sup . of Works of Bristol, for
the article on the Baldwyn Encampment .
EDWARD L . HAWKING, M . A .
St. Leonards-on-Sea, England, 1912 .

PUBLISHERS' 	NOTE
IN presenting to the Fraternity this new and revised edition of The En-
cyclopedia of Freemasonry, we, also, wish to return hearty thanks to Bro . Ed-
ward E . Cauthorne, A . B ., A . M ., Brooklyn, N . Y ., for his articles on Aitchi-
son's-Haven Lodge, Catacombs, Comacine Masters, Como, etc ., and to Bro .
A . G . Pitts, P . M . Detroit, Michigan ; Bro . Robert A . Shirrifs, 33°, of Elizabeth,
N . J . ; Bro . Wm . J . Allen, G . H . G . L . of New York ; Bro . Charles A . Brocka-
way, P . M . New York City, for their articles on Freemasonry in the United
States and Mexico ; and to Bro . Will H . Whyte, 33 ° , P . G . M . of Canada, for
his articles on Freemasonry in Canada .
T . M . H . Co .

A
A . (k, Aleph .) In the Accadian, Greek
Etruscan, Pelasgian, Gallic, Samaritan, and
Egyptian or Coptic, of nearly the same forma-
tion as the English letter . It originally
meant with or together, but at present signifies
one . 	In most languages it is the initial letter
of the alphabet ; not so, however, in the Ethi-
opian, where it is the thirteenth . The sacred
Aleph has the numerical value of one, and is
composed of two Yods, one on either side of
an inclined Van . 	It is said to typify the
Trinity in Unity . The word Aleph signifies
" ox," from the resemblance to the head and
horns of that animal . The Divine name in
Hebrew connected with this letter is
AHIH .
Aaron. Hebrew I VIN, Aharon, a word of
doubtful etymology, but generally supposed to
signify a mountaineer . He was the brother of
Moses, and the first high priest under the Mo-
saic dispensation, whence the priesthood es-
tablished by that lawgiver is known as the
" Aaronic ." He is alluded to in the English
lectures of the second degree, in reference to a
certain sign which is said to have taken its
origin from the fact that Aaron and Hur were
present on the hill from which Moses surveyed
the battle which Joshua was waging with the
Amalekites, when these two supported the
weary arms of Moses in an upright posture,
because upon his uplifted hands the fate of the
battle depended . See Exodus xvii . 10-12 .
Aaron is also referred to in the latter section
of the Royal Arch degree in connection with
the memorials that were deposited in the ark
of the covenant . In the degree of " Chief of
the Tabernacle," which is the 23d of the An-
cient and Accepted Rite, the presiding officer
represents Aaron, and is styled " Most Excel-
lent High Priest ." In the 24th degree of the
A AB
same Rite, or " Prince of the Tabernacle," the
second officer or Senior Warden also person-
ates Aaron .
Aaron's Band . A degree instituted in 1824,
in New York City, mainly for social purposes,
and conferred in an independent body . Its
ceremonies were not dissimilar to those of
High Priesthood, which caused the Grand
Royal Arch Chapter of the State to take um-
brage, and the small gathering dispersed .
Aaron's Rod . The method by which Moses
caused a miraculous judgment as to which
tribe should be invested with the priesthood, is
detailed in the Book of Numbers (ch . xvii .) .
He directed that twelve rods should be laid up
in the Holy of Holies of the Tabernacle, one
for each tribe ; that of Aaron, of course, repre-
sented the tribe of Levi . On the next day
these rods were brought out and exhibited to
the people, and while all the rest remained dry
and withered, that of Aaron alone budded and
blossomed and yielded fruit . 	There is no
mention in the Pentateuch of this rod having
been placed in the ark, but only that it was
put before it . But as St . Paul, or the author
of the Epistle to the Hebrews (Hebrews ix . 4),
asserts that the rod and the pot of manna were
both within the ark, Royal Arch Masons have
followed this later authority . Hence the rod
of Aaron is found in the ark ; but its import is
only historical, as if to identify the substitute
ark as a true copy of the original, which had
been lost . No symbolical instruction accom-
panies its discovery .
Ab . 	:X . 	1 . 	The 11th month of the He-
brew civil year and corresponding to the
months July and August, beginning with the
new moon of the former . 2 . It is also a He-
brew word, signifying father, and will be read-
ily recognized by every Mason as a compo-
1

2 	ABACISCUS
nent part of the name Hiram Abif, which
literally means Hiram his father . (See Abif .)
Abaciscus . The diminutive of Abacus,
and, in architecture, refers to the squares of
the tessellated pavement or checkered flooring
of the ground floor of the Solomonian Temple .
Abacus . A term which has been errone-
ously used to designate the official staff of the
Grand Master of the Templars . The word has
no such meaning ; for an abacus is either a
table used for facilitating arithmetical calcu-
lations, or is in architecture the crowning plate
of a column and its capital . The Grand Mas-
ter's staff was a baculus, which see .
Abaddon . A Hebrew word 11`1Z9, signify-
ing destruction . By the Rabbis it is interpreted
as the place of destruction, and is the second of
the seven names given by them to the region
of the dead . In the Apocalypse (ix . 11) it is
rendered by the Greek word 'Awoxwmr, Apoll-
yon, and means the destroyer . In this sense it
is used as a significant word in the high de-
grees .
Abazar . The title given to the Master of
Ceremonies in the Sixth Degree of the Modern
French Rite .
Abbreviations . Abbreviations of technical
terms or of official titles are of very extensive
use in Masonry . They were, however, but
rarely employed in the earlier Masonic publi-
cations . For instance, not one is to be found
in the first edition of Anderson's Constitu-
tions . Within a comparatively recent period
they have greatly increased, especially among
French writers, and a familiarity with them is
therefore essentially necessary to the Masonic
student. Frequently, among English and al-
ways among French authors, a Masonic ab-
breviation is distinguished by three points, .' . ,
in a triangular form following the letter, which
peculiar mark was first used, according to
Ragon, on the 12th of August, 1774, by the
Grand Orient of France, in an address to its
subordinates . No authoritative explanation
of the meaning of these points has been given,
but they may be supposed to refer to the three
lights around the altar, or perhaps more gen-
erally to the number three, and to the triangle,
both important symbols in the Masonic sys-
tem .
Before proceeding to give a list of the prin-
cipal abbreviations, it may be observed that
the doubling of a letter is intended to express
the plural of that word of which the single let-
ter is the abbreviation . Thus, in French F . • .
signifies " Frere," or " Brother" and ~'F .' ." Freres," or "Brothers ." And in English
L . • .
and LL .- . to denote " Lodges ." This remark is
made once for all, because I have not deemed
it necessary to augment the size of the list of
abbreviations by inserting these plurals . If
the reader finds S .' . G . • . . • .
eign Grand Inspector," he will be at no loss to
know that SS .- . GG .' . IL' . must denote " Sov-
ereign Grand Inspectors ."
A .' . Dep .' . Anno DePositionis . In the Year
of the Deposit . The date used by Royal and
Select Masters .
ABBREVIATIONS
A .'% and A .' . Ancient and Accepted .
A .' . and A .' . S .% R .' . Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite .
A .' . and A .% R .' . Ancient and Accepted Rite
as used in England .
A .' . F .- . M .- . Ancient Freemasons .
A .' . F .' . and A .' . M .' . Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons .
A .' . Inv .- . Anno Inventionis . In the Year
of the Discovery . The date used by Royal
Arch Masons .
A .' . L .' . Anno Lucis . In the Year of Light .
The date used by Ancient Craft Masons .
A .' . L . • . 	.' . D .' . G . • . 	.' . D .' . L'U . • .
Gloire du Grand Architecte de l' Univers . To
the Glory of the Grand Architect of the
Universe . (French .) The usual caption of
French Masonic documents .
A .- . LO .- . A l'Orient . At the East .
(French .) The seat of the Lodge .
A .' . M .' . Anno Mundi . In the Year of the
World . The date used in the Ancient and
Accepted Rite .
A .- . O .- . Anno Ordinis . In the Year of
the Order . The date used by Knights
Templars .
A .' . Y .' . M .- . Ancient York Mason .
B .' . A.% Buisson Ardente . Burning Bush .
B .' . Bruder . (German for Brother .)
B .' . B .- . Burning Bush .
B'n . • . 	. (German for Brethren .)
C . • . .- . Celestial Canopy .
C .' . H .' . Captain of the Host .
D .- . Deputy .
D .' . G .- . G .- . H .' . P .' . Deputy General
Grand High Priest .
D . • . 	.' . H . • . 	.' . Deputy Grand High
Priest .
D .- . G .- . M .- . Deputy Grand Master .
D .- . P rov .- . G .- . M .- . Deput y 	. Grand
Master .
Dis .- . D .- . G .- . M .' . District Deputy Grand
Master . (England .)
D . D . G . M . (America .)
E .' . Eminent ; Excellent .
E .' . A .- . Entered Apprentice or E .' . A .- . P .- .
E .' . C .- . Excellent Companion .
Ec .' . Ecossaise . (French .) Scottish ; be-
longing to the Scottish Rite .
E . • . 	.- . C .- . Eminent Grand Commander .
E . • . . • . 	. (French .) Vulgar
Era ; Year of the Lord .
F . • . 	. Brother . (French .)
F .' . C . • . 	.
F .' . M .- . Freemason . Old Style .
G .' . Grand .
G .' . A . • . .' . Grand Annual Sojourner .
G .' . A .' . O .' . T .' . U .' . Great Architect of the
Universe .
G .' . C .' . Grand Chapter ; Grand Council .
G .' . Com .- . Grand Commandery ; Grand
Commander .
G .' . D .- . Grand Deacon .
G .' . D .' . C .' . Grand Director of Cere-
monies .
G .- . E .' . Grand Encampment ; Grand East .
G .' . G .- . C .' . General Grand Chapter .
G .' . G .- . H .' . P .' . General Grand High
Priest .

ABBREVIATIONS
G : . H . • . P . - . Grand High Priest .
G .- . L .- . Grand Lodge .
G . • . M . - . Grand Master .
G . - . N . - . Grand Nehemiah .
G . - . O . - . Grand Orient ; Grand Organist .
G . - . P . - . Grand P ursuivant .
G . - . P . - . S . - . Gran d Past Sojourner .
G . - . R . - . Grand Registrar .
G . - . R . - . A . • . C .- . Grand Royal Arch Chap-
ter .
G . - . S . - . Grand Scribe ; Grand Secretary .
G . • . S . - . B . - . Grand Sword Bearer ; Grand
Standard Bearer .
G .' . T . - . Grand Treasurer .
H . - . A . • . B . - . Hiram Abif .
H . - . E . - . Holy Empire .
H . - . K . - . T . - . Hiram, King of Tyre .
H . • . R :. D . • . M .' . Heredom .
Ill . - . Illustrious .
L . N . • . R : . I : . Iesus Nazarenus, Rex
Iudxorum . (Latin .) Jesus of Nazareth, King
of the Jews .
I . - . P . - . M . • . Immediate Past Master .
(English .)
I : . T . - . N . • . O . • . T : . G . - . A . - . O . • . T . - . U . - .
In the Name of the Great Architect of the
Universe . Often forming the caption of
Masonic documents .
J .' . W . - . Junior Warden .
K . - . King .
K-H . • . Kadosh, Knight of Kadosh .
K .- . H . - . S .' . Knight of the Holy Sepulcher .
K . - . M .- . Knight of Malta .
K . - . S . - . King Solomon .
K . - . T . - . Knights Templar .
L . • . Lodge .
LL .- . Lodges .
L . - . R . - . London Rank . A distinction in-
troduced in England in 1908 .
M . - . Mason .
M . - . C . - . Middle Chamber .
M . - . E . - . Most Eminent ; Most Excellent .
M . •. E . - . G . • . H . - . P . - . Most Excellent Grand
High Priest .
M . - . E . • . G . - . M . • . Most Eminent Grand
Master (of Knights Templar) .
M . • . L . • . Mere Loge . 	(French .) Mother
Lodge .
M . - . M .- . Master Mason .
M . . . M .% 	Mois Maconni.que . 	(French .)
Masonic Month . March is the first Masonic
month among French Masons .
M . • . W . - . Most Worshipful .
M .' . W . - . S . • . Most Wise Sovereign .
O . - . Orient .
OB .' . Obligation .
P .' . Past .
P . - . G .' . M . - . Past Grand Master .
P . • . M . • . Past Master .
Prov : . Provincial .
Pro : . G . - . M .' . Pro-Grand Master .
Prov : . G . - . M . - . Provincial Grand Master .
P . - . S .' . Principal Sojourner .
R . - . A . • . Royal Arch .
R . - . C . • . or R : . t .' . Rose Croix . Appended
to the signature of one having that degree .
R .' . E . • . Right Eminent .
R . - . F . - . Respectable Frere . (French .) Wor-
shipful Brother .
ABDIEL 	3
R . - . L . • . or R .' . O 	Respectable Loge .
(French .) Worshipful Lodge .
R . - . S .' . Y .' . C .' . S . - . Rosy Cross (in the
Royal Order of Scotland) .
R . • . W .' . Right Worshipful .
S .' . Scribe .
S .' . C .' . Supreme Council .
S . - . G .' . I .' . G .' . Sovereign Grand Inspector
General .
S . - . P .' . R . • . S . - . Sublime Prince of the Royal
Secret .
S . - . S . • . Sanctum Sanctorum or Holy of
Holies .
S . - . S .- . S . - . Trois fois Salut . 	(French .),
Thrice greeting . A common caption to
French Masonic circulars or letters .
S .' . W . • . Senior Warden .
T . - . C . - . F . - . Tress Chere Fre re . 	(French .)
Very Dear Brother .
T . • . G . • . A .' . O .' . T .' . U . - . The Great Archi-
tect of the Universe .
V .' . or Ven : . Venerable . (French .) Wor-
shipful .
V .' . D . • . B .% Very Dear Brother .
V .' . D .' . S . - . A . - . Veut Dieu Saint Amour,
or Vult Dei Sanctus Animus . A formula
used by Knights Templar .
V . - . L .' . Vraie lumie re . 	(French .) True
light .
V . - . W . - . Very Worshipful .
W .' . Worshipful .
W . • . M .- . Worshipful Master .
O 	. Lodge .
E!p . • . Lodges .
Prefixed to the signature of a Knights
Templar or a member of the A . and A .
Scottish Rite below the Thirty-third Degree .
Prefixed to the signature of a Grand
or Past Grand Commander of
Knights Templar or a Mason of the
Thirty-third Degree in the Scottish Rite .
Prefixed to the signature of a Grand
or Past Grand Master of Knights
Templar and the Grand Com-
mander of the Supreme Council of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite .
Abda . A word used in some of the high
degrees . He was the father of Adoniram .
(See 1 Kings iv . 6 .) Lenning is wrong in say-
ing that he is represented by one of the officers
in the degree of Master in Israel . He has con-
founded Abda with his son . 	(Encyc . der
Freimaur .)
Abdamon . 	The name of the orator in the
Fourteenth Degree of the Rite of Perfection, or
the Sacred Vault of James VI . It means a ser-
vant, from abad, " to serve," although some-
what corrupted in its transmission into the
rituals . Lenning says it is the Hebrew Hab-
damon, " a servant' ; but there is no such
word in Hebrew .
Abdiel . 	(Heb ., Servant of God .) The
name of an angel mentioned by the Jewish
Kabbalists . He is represented in Milton's
Paradise Lost, Book V ., as one of the sera-
phim, who, when Satan tried to stir up a re-
volt among the angels subordinate to his
authority, alone and boldly withstood his
traitorous designs :

4 	ABDITORIUM 	ABIF
Among the faithless, faithful only he ; 	is to be considered simply as an appellative or	Among innumerable false, unmoved, 	surname, he preserves the Hebrew form, his	Unshaken, unreduced, unterrified, 	translation being as follows : " Machte Huram	His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal . (894-7 .) Abif dem Konige Salomo ." The Swedish ver-
aname faithfulness .
became the synonym of his father," gives us "
aHyrainstead of
m Abiv ."
"
In the	honor 	e
Abditorlum . A secret place for the deposit Latin Vulgate, as in the English version, the
of records-a Tabularium . 	words are rendered " Hiram pater ejus . 	I
Abelites . 	A secret Order which existed have little doubt that Luther and the Swedish
about the middle of the 18th century in Ger- translator were correct in treating the word
many, called also " the Order of Abel ." The Abif as an appellative . In Hebrew, the word
organization was in possession of peculiar ab, or " father, is often used, honoris causa,
signs, words, and ceremonies of initiation, as a title of respect, and may then signify
but, according to Gadicke (Freimaurer Lexi- friend, counselor wise man, or something else
con), it had no connection with Freemasonry . of equivalent cf,aracter . Thus, Dr . Clarke,
According to Clavel the order was founded at commenting on the word abrech, in Genesis
Griefswald in 1745 . 	xli . 43, says : " Father seems to have been a
Abercorn, Earl of . James Hamilton, Lord name of office, and probably father of the king
Paisley, was named Grand Master of Egland or father of Pharaoh might signify the same as
by the retiring G . Master, the Duke of Rich- the king's minister among us . 	And on the
mond in 1725 . 	He was at that time the very passage in which this word Abif is used,
Master of a Lodge, and had served on the he says : " :X, father, is often used in He-
Committee of Charity durin g that year . He brew to signify master, inventor, chief operator ."
succeeded his father as Earl of Abercorn in Gsenius, the distinguished Hebrew lexi-
1734 . 	cographer, gives to this word similar signifi-
Abercorn, Duke of . Grand Master of Ire- cation, such as benefactor, master, teacher,
land 1874-85 . 	and says that in the Arabic and the Ethiopic
Aberdour, Lord . 	Grand Master of Scot- it is spoken of one who excels in anything .
land, 1755-6 . Also of England 1757-61 . 	This idiomatic custom was pursued by the
Abib . The original name of the Hebrew later Hebrews, for Buxtorf tells us, in his "Tal-
month Nisan, nearly corresponding to the mudic Lexicon, that among the Talmudists
month of March, the first of the ecclesiastical abba, father, was always a title of honor,"
year . Abib is frequently mentioned in the and he quotes the following remarks from 'a
Sacred Scriptures, and signifies green ears of treatise of the celebrated Maimonides, who,
corn or fresh fruits . 	when speaking of the grades or ranks into
Abibale . 	The name of the first Assassin in which the Rabbinical doctors were divided,
the Elu of the Modern French Rite . 	says : " The first class consists of those each
Derived most probably from the Hebrew of ,whom bears his own name, without any
title of honor ; the second, of those who are	abi and balah, " :X and y~ :, which mean father called Rabbanim • and the hird, of those who	of destruction, though it is said to mean " le are called Rabbi, and the men of this class also	meurtrier du Pire" 	receive the cognomen of Abba, Father ."	Abide by . See Stand to and abide by . 	Again, in 2 Chronicles ii . 13, Hiram, the	Abif (or Abiff, or perhaps more correctly King of Tyre, referring to the same Hiram,	Ablv) . An epithet which has been applied in the widow's son, who is spoken of subse-
Scripture to that celebrated builder who was quently in reference to King Solomon as " his	sent to Jerusalem by King Hiram, of Tyre, to father," or Abif in the passage already cited,	superintend the construction of the Temple . writes to Solomon : " And now I have sent a
The word, which in the original Hebrew is cunning man, endued with understanding, of
)" :N, and which may be pronounced Abiv or Huram my father's ." The only difficulty in	Abif, is compounded of the noun in the con- this sentence is to be found in the prefixing of
struct-state I :X, Abi, meaning " father," the letter lamed 	before Huram which has	and the pronominal suffix 1, which, with the 	>
preceding vowel sound is to be sounded as iv caused our translators, by a strange blunder,
or if, and which means! ` his" ; so that the word to render the words l Huram abi, as meaning
thus compounded Abif literally and gram- " of Huram my father's," * instead of
matically signifies " his father ." The word is "Huram my father ." Luther has again taken
found in 2 Chronicles iv . 16, in the following the correct view of this subject, and translates
sentence : " The pots also, and the shovels, the word as an appellative : 	So sende ich
and the flesh hooks, and all their instruments nun einen weisen Mann, der Berstand hat,
did Huram his fathr make to King Solomon . ' Huram Abif" that is, " So now I send you a
The latter part of this verse is in the original wise man who has understanding, Huram
as follows : 	Abif ." The truth, I suspect, is, although it has .
escaped all the commentators, that the lamed
nn5ln 	`15r~5 	1' :X 	a7 in 	'IVY) in this passage is a Chaldaism which is some-
Shelomoh 	lamelech 	Abif 	Huram 	gnasah times used by the later Hebrew writers, who
Luther has been more literal in his version 	* It may be remarked that this could not be	of this passage than the English translators, the true meaning, for the father of King Hiram
and appearing to suppose that the word Abif was not another Hiram, but Abibal .

ABIRAM
incorrectly employ 5, the sign of the dative
for the accusative after transitive verbs .
Thus, in Jeremiah (xl . 2), we have such a con-
struction : vayikach rab tabachim l'Yremyahu ;
that is, literally, " and the captain of the
guards took for Jeremiah," where the 5, 1, or
for, is a Chaldaism and redundant, the true
rendering being, " and the captain of the
guards took Jeremiah ." Other similar pas-
sages are to be found in Lamentations iv . 5,
Job v . 2, etc . In like manner I suppose the 5
before Huram, which the English translators
have rendered by the preposition " of," to be
redundant and a Chaldaic form, the sentence
should be read thus : "I have sent a cunning
man, endued with understanding, Huram my
father" ; or, if considered as an appellative,
as it should be, " Huram Abi ."
From all this I conclude that the word Ab,
with its different suffixes, is always used in the
Books of Kings and Chronicles, in reference to
Hiram the Builder, as a title of respect . When
King Hiram speaks of him he calls him " my
father Hiram," Hiram Abi ; and when the
writer of the Book of Chronicles is speaking of
him and King Solomon in the same passage,
he calls him 	" Solomon's father' - ""
father," Hiram Abif . The only difference is
made by the different appellation of the pro-
nouns my and his in Hebrew. To both the
kings of Tyre and of Judah he bore the honor-
able relation of Ab, or " father," equivalent to
mend, counselor, or minister . He was "Father
dram ." The Masons are therefore perfectly
correct in refusing to adopt the tr ans lation of
the English version, and in preserving, after
the example of Luther, the word Abif as an
appellative, surname, or title of honor and dis-
tinction bestowed upon the chief builder of
the Temple, as Dr . James Anderson suggests
in his note on the subject in the first edi-
tion (1723) of the Constitutions of the Free-
masons . 	[E . L . H .1
Abiram . 	One of the traitorous craftsmen,
whose act of perfidy forms so important a part
of the Third Degree, receives in some of the
high degrees the name of Abiram Akirop .
These words certainly have a Hebrew look ;
but the significant words of Masonry have, in
the lapse of time and in their transmission
through ignorant teachers, become so cor-
rupted in form that it is almost impossible to
trace them to any intelligent root . They may
be Hebrew or they may be anagrammatized
(see Anagram) ; but it is only chance that can
give us the true meaning which they undoubt-
edly have . 	The word "Abiram" means
" father of loftiness," and may have been
chosen as the name of the traitorous crafts-
man with allusion to the Biblical story of
Korah, Dathan and Abiram who conspired
against Moses and Aaron . (Numbers xvi .) In
the French ritual of the Second Elu it is said
to mean murderer or assassin, but this would
not seem to be correct etymologically .
Able . 	There is an archaic use of the word
able to signify suitable . 	Thus, Chaucer says
of a monk that "he was able to ben an abbot,"
ABORIGINES 	5 -
that is, suitable to be an abbot . In this sense
the old manuscript Constitutions constantly
employ the word, as when they say that the
apprentice should be " able of Birth that is
ffree borne ." 	(Lansdowne MS .)
Ablution . 	A ceremonial purification by
washing, much used in the Ancient Mysteries
and under the Mosaic dispensation . It is
also employed in some of the high degrees of
Masonry . The better technical term for this
ceremony is lustration, which see .
Abnet . 	The band or apron, made of fine
linen, variously wrought, and worn by the
Jewish priesthood . It seems to have been
borrowed directly from the Egyptians upon
the representations of all of whose gods is to
be found a similar girdle . Like the sennaar,
or sacred cord of the Brahmans, and the white
shield of the Scandinavians, it is the analogue
of the Masonic apron .
Aborigines . A secret society which existed
in England about the year 1783, and of whose
ceremony of initiation the following account is
contained in the British Magazine of that date .
The presiding officer, who was styled the Orig-
inal, thus addressed the candidate :
Original . 	Have you faith enough to be
made an Original?
Candidate . 	I have .
Original . 	Will you be conformable to all
honest rules which may support steadily the
honor, reputation, welfare, and dignity of our
ancient undertaking?
Candidate . I will .
Original . 	Then, friend, promise me that
you will never stray from the paths of Honor,
Freedom, Honesty, Sincerity, Prudence, Mod-
esty, Reputation, Sobriety, and True Friend-
ship .
Candidate . 	I do .
Which done, the crier of the court com-
manded silence and the new member, being
uncovered, and dropping on his right knee,
had the following oath administered to him by
the servant, the new member laying his right
hand on the Cap of Honor, and Nimrod hold-
ing a staff over his head :
" You swear by the Cap of Honor, by the
Collar of Freedom, by the Coat of Honesty, by
the Jacket of Sincerity, by the Shirt of Pru-
dence, by the Breeches of Modesty, by the
Garters of Reputation, by the Stockings of
Sobriety, and by the Steps of True Friendship,
never to depart from these laws ."
Then rising, with the staff resting on his
head, he received a copy of the laws from the
hands of the Grand Original, with these words,
" Enjoy the benefits hereof ."
He then delivered the copy of the laws to
the care of the servant, after which the word
was given by the secretary to the new mem-
ber, viz . : Eden, signifying the garden where
Arms, the great aboriginal, was formed .
Then the secretary invested him with the
sign, viz . : resting his right hand on his left
side, signifying the first conjunction of har-
mony .
It had no connection with Freemasonry,
but was simply one of those numerous imita-

6 	ABRAC
tive societies to which that Institution has
given rise .
Abrac . 	In the Leland MS . it is said that
the Masons conceal " the wey of wynninge
the facultye of Abrac ." Mr . Locke (if it was
he who wrote a commentary on the manu-
script) says, " Here I am utterly in the dark ."
It means simply 	the way of acquiring the
science of Abrac ." The science of Abrac is
the knowledge of the power and use of the
mystical abraxas, which see ; or very likely
"Abrac " is merely an abbreviation of Abrac-
adabra .
Abracadabra . A term of incantation which
was formerly worn about the neck as an amu-
let against several diseases, especially the ter-
tian ague . 	It was to be written on a triangu-
lar piece of parchment in the following form :
ABRACADABRA
ABRACADABR
ABRACADAB
ABRACADA
ABRACAD
ABRACA
ABRAC
ABRA
ABR
AB
A
It is said that it first occurs in the Carmen
de Morbis et Remediic of Q . Serenus Sammon-
icus, a favorite of the Emperor Severus in the
2d and 3d centuries, and is generally supposed
to be derived from the word abraxas .
Abraham . The founder of the Hebrew na-
tion . 	The patriarch Abraham is personated
in the degree or Order of High Priesthood,
which refers in some of its ceremonies to an
interesting incident in his life . After the
amicable separation of Lot and Abraham,
when the former was dwelling in the plain in
which Sodom and its neighboring towns were
situated, and the latter in the valley of Mamre
near Hebron, a king from beyond the Eu-
phrates, whose name was Chedorlaomer, in-
vaded lower Palestine, and brought several of
the smaller states into a tributary condition .
Among these were the five cities of the plain,
to which Lot had retired . As the yoke was
borne with impatience by these cities, Ched-
orlaomer, accompanied by four other kings
who were probably his tributaries, attacked
and defeated the kings of the plain, plundered
their towns, and carried their people away as
slaves . 	Among those who suffered on this
occasion was Lot . 	As soon as Abraham
heard of these events, he armed three hundred
and eighteen of his slaves, and, with the assist-
ance of Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre, three
Amoritish chiefs, he pursued the retiring in-
vaders, and having attacked them near the
Jordan, put them to flight, and then returned
with all the men and goods that had been re-
covered from the enemy . 	On his way back he
was met by the King of Sodom, and also by
Melchizedek, King of Salem, who was, like
Abraham 	a worshi er of the true God .
Melchizecek refresh Abraham and his peo-
ABRAXAS
ple with bread and wine, and blessed him . The
King of Sodom wished Abraham to give up the
persons, but retain the goods that he had re-
covered ; however, Abraham positively refused
to retain any of the spoils, although, by the
customs of the age, he was entitled to them,
and declared that he had sworn that he would
not take " from a thread even to a shoe-
latchet ." (Genesis xiv .) Although the conduct
of Abraham in this whole transaction was of
the most honorable and conscientious charac-
ter, the incidents do not appear to have been
introduced into the ritual of the High Priest-
hood for any other reason except that of their
connection with Melchizedek, who was the
founder of an Order of Priesthood .
Abraham, Antoine Firmin . 	A Mason
who made himself notorious at Paris, in the be-
ginning of the present century, by the manu-
facture and sale of false Masonic diplomas and
by trading in the higher degrees, from which
traffic he reaped for some time a plentiful har-
vest . 	The Supreme Council of France de-
clared, in 1811, all his diplomas and charters
void and deceptive . 	He is the author of
L'Art du Tuileur, dedie a tour les Masons
des deux hemispheres, a small volume of 20
pages, 8vo, printed at Paris in 1803, and he
published from 1800 to 1808 a periodical work
entitled Le Miroir de la verite, dedie a tous les
Masons, 3 vols ., 8vo . 	This contains many
interesting details concerning the history of
Masonry in France . 	In 1811 there was pub-
lished at Paris a Circulaire du Supreme Con-
seil du 33e degre, etc ., relative a la vente, par
le Sieur Abraham de grades et cahiers Magon-
niques (8vo, 15 pp .), from which it is evident
that Abraham was nothing else but a Masonic
charlatan .
Abraxas . 	Basilides, the head of the Egyp-
tian sect of Gnostics, taught that there were
seven emanations, or aeons, from the Supreme
God ; that these emanations engendered the
angels of the highest order ; that these angels
formed a heaven for their habitation, and
brought forth other angels of a nature inferior
to their own ; that in time other heavens were
formed and other angels created, until the
whole number of angels and their respective
heavens amounted to 365, which were thus
equal to the number of days in a year ; and,
finally,that overall these an omnipotent Lord-
inferior, however, to the Supreme God-pre-
sided, whose name was Abraxas . Now this
word Abraxas, in the numerical force of its
letters when written in Greek, ABPA BBA :X,
amounts to 365, the number of worlds in the
Basilidean system, as well as the number of
days in the year, thus : A, 1 . ., B, 2 . ., P, 100 . .,
A, 1 . ., B, 60 . ., A, 1 . ., 2 200 = 365 . 	The god
Abraxas was therefore a type or symbol of the
year, or of the revolution of the earth around
the sun . 	This mystical reference of the name
of a god to the annual period was familiar to
the ancients, and is to be found in at least two
other instances . 	Thus, among the Persians
the letters of the name of the god Mithras,
and of Belenus among the Gauls, amounted
each to 365 .

The word Abraxas, therefore, from this
mystical value of the letters of which it was
composed, became talismanic, and was fre-
quently inscribed, sometimes with and some-
times without other superstitious inscriptions,
on stones or gems as amulets, many of which
have been preserved or are continually being
discovered, and are to be found in the cabinets
of the curious .
There have been many conjectures among
the learned as to the derivation of the word
Abraxas . 	Beausobre (Histoire du Maniche-
isme, vol . ii .) derives it from the Greek,
`A,Bgos law, signifying "the magnificent Sav-
iour, he who heals and preserves ." Bellermann
(Essay on the Gems of the Ancients) supposed
it to be compounded of three Coptic words
signifying " the holy word of bliss ." Pignorius
and Vandelin think it is composed of four
Hebrew and three Greek letters, whose numer-
ical value is 365, and which are the initials of
the sentence : " saving men by wood, i . e . the
cross ."
Abraxas Stones . 	Stones on which the
word Abraxas and other devices are engraved,
and which were used by the Egyptian Gnos-
tics as amulets .
Absence . 	Attendance on the communica-
tions of his Lodge, on all convenient occasions,
is considered as one of the duties of every
Mason, and hence the old charges of 1722 (ch .
iii .) say that " in ancient Times no Master or
Fellow could be absent from it [the Lodge]
especially when warn'd to appear at it, with-
out incurring a severe censure, until it ap-
pe~ar'd to the Master and Wardens that pure
Necessity hinder'd him ." At one time it was
usual to enforce attendance by fines, and the
By-Laws of the early Lodges contain lists of
fines to be imposed for absence, swearing and
drunkenness, but that usage is now discon-
tinued, so that attendance on ordinary com-
munications is no longer enforced by any sanc-
tion of law . 	It is a duty the discharge of
which must be left to the conscientious con-
victions of each Mason . 	In the case, how-
ever, of a positive summons for any express
purpose, such as to stand trial, to show cause,
etc ., the neglect or refusal to attend might be
construed into a contempt, to be dealt with
according to its magnitude or character in
each particular case .
Acacia . An interesting and important
symbol in Freemasonry . Botanically, it is the
acacia vera of Tournefort, and the mimosa
nilotica of T inn eus, called babul tree in India .
It grew abundantly in the vicinity of Jerusa-
lem, where it is still to be found, and is famil-
iar in its modern use as the tree from which the
gum arabic of commerce is derived .
Oliver, it is true, says that " there is not the
ACACIA 	7
smallest trace of any tree of the kind growing
so far north as Jerusalem " ( Landm ., ii ., 149) ;
but this statement is refuted
by the authority of Lieutenant
Lynch, who saw it growing in
great abundance in Jericho,
and still farther north . 	(Ex-
ped . to Dead Sea, p . 262 .) 	The
Rabbi Joseph Schwarz, who
is excellent authority, says :
" The Acacia (Shittim) tree,
Al Bunt, is found in Palestine
of different varieties ; it looks
like the Mulberry tree, attains
a great height, and has a hard
wood . The gum which is ob-
tained from it is the gum
arabic ." 	(Descriptive Geography and Histori-
cal Sketch of Palestine, p308, Leeser's trans-
lation . Phila ., 1850 .) Schwarz was for sixteen
years a resident of Palestine, and wrote from
personal observation . The testimony of Lynch
and Schwarz should, therefore, forever settle
the question of the existence of the acacia in
Palestine .
The acacia is called in the Bible Shittim,
which is really the plural of Shittah, which
last form occurs once only in Isaiah xli .
19 . It was esteemed a sacred wood among
the Hebrews, and of it Moses was ordered
to make the tabernacle, the ark of the
covenant, the table for the shewbread, and the
rest of the sacred furniture . 	(Exodus xxv .-
xxvii .) Isaiah (1 . c .) in recounting the promises
of God's mercy to the Israelites on their return
from the captivity, tells them that, among
other things, he will plant in the wilderness,
for . their relief and refreshment, the cedar, the
acacia (or, as it is rendered in our common
version, the shittah), the fir, and other trees .
The first thing, then, that we notice in this
symbol of the acacia, is that it had been always
consecrated from among the other trees of the
forest by the sacred purposes to which it was
devoted . 	By the Jew, the tree from whose
wood the sanctuary of the tabernacle and the
holy ark had been constructed would ever be
viewed as more sacred than ordinary trees .
The early Masons, therefore, very naturally
appropriated this hallowed plant to the equally
sacred purpose of a symbol, which was to teach
an important divine truth in all ages to come .
Having thus briefly disposed of the natural
history of this plant, we may now proceed to
examine it in its symbolic relations .
First . 	The acacia, in the mythic system of
Freemasonry, is preeminently the symbol of
the IMMORTALITY OF THE souL-that impo r-
tant doctrine which it is the great design of the
Institution to teach . As the evanescent nature
of the flower, which " cometh forth and is
cut down," reminds us of the transitory na-
ture of human life, so the perpetual renovation
of the evergreen plant, which uninterruptedly
presents the appearance of youth and vigor : is
aptly compared to that spiritual life in which
the soul, freed from the corruptible compan-
ionship of the body, shall enjoy an eternal
spring and an immortal 	Fence . is
ABRAXAS
M = 40 	B 	= 	2
E 	5 	H 	= 	8
I = 10 	A = 30
0 = 	9 	E = 	5
P = 100 	N = 50
A = 	1 	0 = 70
Z = 200 = 365 	Z = 200 = 365

8 	ACACIA
the impressive funeral service of our Order, it
is said that " this evergreen is an emblem of
our faith in the immortality of the soul . By
this we are reminded that we have an im-
mortal part within us, which shall survive the
grave, and which shall never, never, never
die ." And again, in the closing sentences of
the monitorial lecture of the Third Degree, the
same sentiment is repeated, and we are told
that by " the ever-green and ever-living
sprig " the Mason is strengthened " with con-
fidence and composure to look forward to a
blessed immortality ." Such an interpretation
of the symbol is an easy and a natural one ;
it suggests itself at once to the least reflective
mind ; and consequently, in some one form or
another, is to be found existing in all ages and
nations . It was an ancient custom-which
is not, even now, altogether disused-for
mourners to carry in their hands at funerals a
sprig of some evergreen, generally the cedar or
the cypress, and to deposit it in the grave of
the deceased . According to Dalcho,* the
Hebrews always planted a sprig of the acacia
at the head of the grave of a departed friend .
Potter tells us that the ancient Greeks " had a
custom of bedecking tombs with herbs and
flowers ." t All sorts of purple and white flow-
ers were acceptable to the dead, but princi-
pally the amaranth and the myrtle . The very
name of the former of these plants, which sig-
nifies " never fading," would seem to indicate
the true symbolic meaning of the usage, al-
though archeologists have generally supposed
it to be simply an exhibition of love on the part
of the survivors . Ragon says that the ancients
substituted the acacia for all other plants be-
cause they believed it to be incorruptible, and
not liable to injury from the attacks of any
kind of insect or other animal-thus symbo-
lizing the incorruptible nature of the soul .
Hence we see the propriety of placing the
sprig of acacia, as an emblem of immortality,
among the symbols of that degree, all of whose
ceremonies are intended to teach us the great
truth that " the life of man, regulated by mo-
rality, faith, and justice, will be rewarded at its
* "This custom among the Hebrews arose
from this circumstance . Agreeably to their
laws, no dead bodies were allowed to be interred
within the walls of the City ; and as the Cohens,
or Priests, were prohibited from crossing a grave,
it was necessary to place marks thereon, that
they might avoid them . For this purpose the
Acasia was used ." (Dalcho, $nd Oration, p . 23,
note .) I object to the reason assigned by Dalcho,
but of the existence of the custom there can be no
question, notwithstanding the denial or doubt
of Dr . Oliver . Blount (Travels in the Levant,
p . 197) says, speaking of the Jewish burial cus-
toms, "those who bestow a marble stone over
any [gravel have a hole a yard long and a foot
broad, in which they plant an evergreen, which
seems to grow from the body and is carefully
watched ." Hasselquist (Travels, p . 28) confirms
his testimony . I borrow the citations from
Brown (Antiquities of the Jews, vol . ii ., p . 356),
but have verified the reference to Hasselquist .
The work of Blount I have not been enabled to
oonsult .
t Antiquities of Greece, p . 569 .
ACACIA
closing hour by the prospect of Eternal
Bliss ." * So, therefore, says Dr . Oliver, when
the Master Mason exclaims "my name is
Acacia," it is equivalent to saying, " I have
been in the grave-I have triumed over it
by rising from the dead-and being regener-
ated in the process, I have a claim to life ever-
lasting ." 	(See Landmarks, ii .,151, note 27 .)
The sprig of acacia, then, in its most ordi-
nary signification, presents itself to the Master
Mason as a symbol of the immortality of the
soul, being intended to remind him, by its
ever-green and unchanging nature, of that
better and spiritual part within us, which, as
an emanation from the Great Architect of the
Universe, can never die . And as this is the
most ordinary, the most generally accepted
signification, so also is it the most important ;
for thus, as the peculiar symbol of immortal-
ity, it becomes the most appropriate to an
Order all of whose teachings are intended to
inculcate the great lesson that " life rises out
of the grave ." But incidental to this the acacia
has two other interpretations which are well
worthy of investigation .
Secondly, then, the acacia is a symbol of
INNoCENCE . 	The symbolism here is of a pe-
culiar and unusual character, depending not
on any real analogy in the form or use of the
symbol to the idea symbolized, but simply on
a double or compound meaning of the word .
For acaKla in the Greek language, si 	es
both the pant in question and the moral ual-
ity of innocence or purity of life . In this sense
the symbol refers, primarily, to him over
whose solitary grave the acacia was planted,
and whose virtuous conduct, whose integrity
of life and fidelity to his trusts have ever been
presented as patterns to the craft, and conse-
quently to all Master Masons, who, by this
interpretation of the symbol, are invited to
emulate his example .
Hutchinson t indulging in his favorite theory
of Christianizing Masonry, when he comes to
this signification of the symbol, thus enlarges
on the interpretation : " We Masons, describ-
ing the deplorable estate of religion under the
Jewish law, speak in figures :-'Her tomb was
in the rubbish and filth cast forth of the tem-
ple, and ACACIA wove its branches over her
monument ;' aKaKta being the Greek word
for innocence, or being free from sin ; implying
that the sins and corruptions of the old law,
and devotees of the Jewish altar, had hid relig-
ion from those who sought her, and she was
only to be found where INNOCENCE survived,
and under the banner of the divine Lamb ;
and as to ourselves professing that we were
to be distinguished by our ACACY, ,or as true
ACACIANs in our religious faith and tenets ." t
But, lastly, the acacia is to be considered as
the symbol of INITIATION . 	This is by far the
most interesting of its interpretations, andwas,
we have every reason to believe, the primary
and original ; the others being but incidental .
* Dr . Crucefix, MS . quoted by Oliver . Land-
marks, ii ., 2 .
t Hutchinson's Spirit of Masonry, Loot . IX . ;
p . 160, ed . 1775 .

ACACIAN
It leads us at once to the investigation of the
significant fact that in all the ancient initia-
tions and religious mysteries there was some
plant peculiar to each, which was consecrated
by its own esoteric meaning, and which occu-
pied an important position in the celebration
of the rites, so that the plant, whatever it
might be, from its constant and prominent use
in the ceremonies of initiation, came at length
to be adopted as the symbol of that initiation .
Thus, the lettuce was the sacred plant which
assumed the place of the acacia in the mys-
teries of Adonis . (See Lettuce .) The lotus was
that of the Brahmanical rites of India, and
from them adopted by the Egyptians . (See
Lotus .) The Egyptians also revered the erica
or heath ; and the mistletoe was a mystical
plant among the Druids . (See Erica and Mis-
tletoe .) And, lastly the myrtle performed the
same office of symbolism in the mysteries of
Greece that the lotus did in Egypt or the mis-
tletoe among the Druids . 	(See Myrtle .)
In all of these ancient mysteries, while the
sacred plant was a symbol of initiation, the
initiation itself was symbolic of the resur-
rection to a future life, and of the immortality
of the soul . In this view, Freemasonry is to us
now in the place of the ancient initiations, and
the acacia is substituted for the lotus, the erica,
the ivy, the mistletoe, and the myrtle . The
lesson of wisdom is the same-the medium
of imparting it is all that has been changed .
Returning, then, to the acacia, we find that
it is capable of three explanations . It is a sym-
bol of immortality, of innocence, and of initi-
ation . But these three signification are closely
connected, and that connection must be ob-
served, if we desire to obtain a just interpre-
tation of the symbol . Thus, in this one s 	-
bol, we are taught that in the initiation of e,
of which the initiation in the Third Degree is
simply emblematic, innocence must for a
time lie in the grave, at length, however, to be
called, by the word of the Great Master of the
Universe, to a blissful immortality . Combine
with this the recollection of the place where
the sprig of acacia was planted-Mount
Calvary-the place of sepulture of him who
"brought life and immortality to light," and
who, in Christian Masonry, is designated, as
he is in Scripture, as " the lion of the tribe of
Judah" ; and remember, too, that in the mys-
tery of his death, the wood of the cross takes
the place of the acacia, and in this little and
apparently insignificant symbol, but which is
really and truly the most important and sig-
nificant one in Masonic science, we have a
beautiful suggestion of all the mysteries of
life and death, of time and eternity, of the
present and of the future .
Acaclan . 	A word introduced by Hutchin-
son, in his Spirit of Masonry, to designate
a Freemason in reference to the akakia, or in-
nocence with which he was to be distinguished,
from the Greek word arcaKla . 	(See the pre-
ceding article .) The Acacians constituted an
heretical sect in the primitive Christian
Church, who derived their name from Aca-
cia, Bishop of Casarea ; and there was sub-
ACADEMY 	9
sequently another sect of the same name
Acacius, Patriarch of Constantinople . But it
is needless to say that the Hu tchinsonian ap-
plication of the word Acacian to signify a
Freemason has nothing to do with the theo-
logical reference of the term .
Academic des Illumines d'Avignon . A
Hermetic system of philosophy, created in 1785 .
Academy . 	The Fourth Degree of the
Rectified Rose Croix of Schroeder .
Academy of Ancients or of Secrets .
(Academie des Secrets .) A society instituted at
Warsaw, in 1767, by M . Thoux de Salverte,
and founded on the principles of another
which bore the same name, and which had
been established at Rome, about the end of
the 16th century, by John Baptiste Porta .
The object of the institution was the advance-
ment of the natural sciences and their appli-
cation to the occult philosophy .
Academy of Sages . 	An order which ex-
isted in Sweden in 1770, deriving its origin from
that founded in London by Elias Ashmole, on
the doctrines of the New Atlantis of Bacon . A
few similar societies were subsequently founded
in Russia and France, one especially noted by
Thory (Act . Lat .) as having been established
in 1776 by the mother Lodge of Avignon .
Academy of Secrets . 	See Academy of
Ancients .
Academy of Sublime Masters of the Lu-
minous Ring . 	Founded in France, in 1780,
by Baron Blaerfmdy, one of the Grand Officers
of the Philosophic Scotch Rite . The Academy
of the Luminous Ring was dedicated to the
philosophy of Pythagoras, and was divided
into three degrees . The first and second were
principally occupied with the history of Free-
masonry, and the last with the dogmas of the
Pythagorean school, and their application to
the highest grades of science . The historical
hypothesis which was sought to be developed
in this Academy was that Pythagoras was the
founder of Freemasonry .
Academy of True Masons . 	Founded at
Montpelier, in France, by Dom Pernetty in
1778, and occupied with instructions in her-
metic science, which were developed in six
degrees viz . : 1 . The True Mason ; 2 . The
True 11iason in the Right Way ; 3 . Knight of
the Golden Key ; 	4 . Knight of Iris- 5 .
Knight of the Argonauts ; 6 . Knight of the
Golden Fleece . The degrees thus conferred
constituted the Philosophic Scotch Rite, which
was the system adopted by the Academy . It
afterward changed its name to that of Russo-
Swedish Academy, which circumstance leads
Thory to believe that it was connected with
the Alchemical Chapters which at that time
existed in Russia and Sweden . The entirely
hermetic character of the Academy of True
Masons may readily be perceived in a few par-
agraphs cited by Clavel (p . 172, 3d ed ., 1844)
from a discourse by Goyer de Jumilly at the
installation of an Academy in Martinique .
" To seize," says the orator, " the graver of
Hermes to engrave the doctrines of natural
philosophy on your columns ; to call Flamel,
the Philalete, the Cosmopolite, and our other

10 	ACADEMY
masters to my aid for the purpose of unveiling
the mysterious principles of the occult sci-
ences,-these, illustrious knights, appear to be
the duties imposed on me by the ceremony of
your installation . The fountain of Count
Trevisan, the pontifical water, the peacock's
tail, are phenomena with which you are fa-
miliar ."
Academy, Platonic . 	Founded in 1480 by
Marsilius Ficinus, at Florence, under the pa-
tronage of Lorenzo de Medicis . It is said by
the Masons of Tuscany to have been a secret
society, and is supposed to have had a Masonic
character, because in the hall where its mem-
bers held their meetings, and which still re-
mains, many Masonic symbols are to be found .
Clavel (p . 85, 3d ed ., 1844) supposes it to have
been a society founded by some of the hon-
orary members and patrons of the fraternity
of Freemasons who existed in the Middle
Ages, and who, having abandoned the mate-
rial design of the institution, confined them-
selves to its mystic character . If his sugges-
tion be correct, this is one of the earliest
instances of the separation of Speculative
from Operative Masonry .
Acanthus . 	A plant, described by Dios-
corides, with broad, flexible, prickly leaves,
which perish in the winter and sprout again at
the return of spring . It is found in the Gre-
cian islands on the borders of cultivated fields
or gardens, and is common in moist, rocky sit-
uations . It is memorable for the tradition
which assigns to it the origin of the foliage
carved on the capitals of Corinthian and Com-
posite columns . Hence, in architecture, that
part of the Corinthian capital is called the
Acanthus which is situated below the abacus,
and which, having the form of a vase or bell, is
surrounded by two rows of leaves of the acan-
thus plant . Callimachus, who invented this
ornament, is said to have had the idea sug-
gested to him by the following incident . A
Corinthian maiden who was betrothed, fell ill,
and died just before the appointed time of her
marriage . 	Her faithful and grieving nurse
placed on her tomb a basket containing many
of her toys and jewels, and covered it with a
flat tile . It so happened that the basket was
placed immediately over an acanthus root,
which afterward grew up around the basket
and curled over under the superincumbent
resistance of the tile, thus exhibiting a form of
foliage which was, on its being seen by the
architect adopted as a model for the capital of
a new order ; so that the story of affection was
per etuated in marble . Dudley (Naology, p .
164) thinks the tale puerile, and supposes that
the acanthus is really the lotus of the Indians
and Egyptians, and is symbolic of laborious
but effectual effort applied to the support of the
world . With him, the symbolism of the acan-
thus and the lotus are identical . See Lotus .
Accepted . 	The Worshipful Compan of
Masons of the City of London-a flour' 	' g
Guild at the present day-possesses as its ear-
liest document now existing an account book
headed " 1620 .
ACCEPTED
The Accompte of James Gilder Mr (Mas-
ter) William Ward & John Abraham wardens
of the Company of ffremasons wthin the Citie
of London beginninge the first day of Julie
1619 And endinge the 	day of Julie 1620
of all receite & payment for & to the use the
same company as ffolloweth, viz ."
From the entries in this book it appears
that besides the ordi na ry Freemen and Livery-
men of this Company there were other mem-
bers who are termed in the books the " Ac-
cepted Masons," and that they belonged to a
body known as the "Accepcon," or Accep-
tion, which was an Inner Fraternity of Specu-
lative Masons .
Thus in the year 1620 the following entry is
found :
" They charge themselves also wth Money
Receyued of the Psons hereafter named for
theyr gratuitie at theyr acceptance into the
Lyvery viz" (here follow six names) ; and
among the accounts for the next year (1621)
there is an entry showing sums received from
several persons, of whom two are mentioned
in the entry of 1620, " Att the making ma-
sons," and as all these mentioned were already
members of the Company something further
must be meant by this .
In 1631 the following entry of the Clerk's
expenses occurs : " Pd in goeing abroad & att
a meeteing att the hall about ye Masons yt
were to bee accepted VIB VId ."
Now the Company never accepted its mem-
bers ; they were always admitted to the free-
dom either by apprenticeship, patrimony, or
redemption . Thus the above entries suggest
that persons who were neither connected with
the trade nor otherwise qualified were re-
quired, before being eligible for election on the
livery of the Company, to become " Accepted
Masons," that is, to join the Lodge of Specu-
lative Masonry that was held for that purpose
in the Company's Hall .
Thus in the accounts for 1650, payments are
entered as made by several persons " for com-
ing on the Liuerie & admission uppon Accept-
ance of Masonry," and it is entered that Mr .
Andrew Marvin the present warden, and an-
other paid 20 shillings each " for coming on
the Accepcon" ; while two others are entered
as paying 40 shillings each "for the like,"
and as the names of the last two cannot be
found among the members of the Masons
Company it would seem as if it was possible
for strangers to join "the Accepcon " on
paying double fees .
Unfortunately no books connected with
this Acception, or Lodge, as it may be called,
have been preserved : but there are references
to it in several places in the account books
which show that the payments made by newly
accepted Masons were paid into the funds of
the Company, that some or all of this amount
was spent on a banquet and the attendant
expenses, and that any further sum required
was paid out cf the ordinary funds of the
Company, proving that the Company had
entire control of the Lodge and its funds .
Further evidence of the existence of this

ACCEPTED
Symbolical Lodge within the Masons Com-
pany is given by the following entry in an in-
ventory of the Company's property made in
1665 :
"Item . 	The names of the Accepted Ma-
sons in a faire inclosed frame with lock and
key" ; and in an inventory of 1676 is found :
"Item . 	One book of the Constitutions of
the Accepted Masons .*
"A faire large table of the Accepted Ma-
sons ." And proof positive of its existence
is derived from an entry in the diary of
Elias Ashmole-the famous antiquary-who
writes
" March 10th . 1682 . About 5 p .m . I re-
ceived a summons to appear at a Lodge to be
held next day at Masons Hall London .
March 11th . Accordingly I went and
about noon were admitted into the Fellowship
of Free Masons : Sir William Wilson Knight,
Capt . Rich Borthwick, Mr Will Woodman,
Mr Wm Grey, Mr Samuell Taylour, and Mr
William Wise .t
I was the Senior Fellow among them (it
being 35 years since I was admitted) ."
He then mentions the names of nine others
who were present and concludes : "We all
dyned at the halfe Moone Taverne in Cheape-
side at a noble dinner prepaired at the charge
of tce New-Accepted Masons ."
All present were members of the Masons
Company except Ashmole himself, Sir W .
Wilson and Capt . Borthwick and this entry
proves conclusively that side by side with the
Masons Company there existed another or-
ganization to which non-members of the Com-
pany were admitted and the members of which
were known as "Accepted Masons ."
It may here be mentioned that Ashmole
has recorded in his diary that he was made a
Freemason at Warrington in Lancashire on
October 16, 1646 . In that entry the word
"Accepted" does not occur .
No mention is made of the Accepted Masons
in the accounts of the Masons Company after
1677, when £6-the balance remaining of the
last Accepted Masons' money-was ordered
to be laid out for a new banner ; and it would
seem that from that time onward the Lodge
kept separate accounts for from the evidence
of Ashmole's diary we snow it was at work in
1682 ; but when and why it finally ceased no
evidence is forthcoming to show . However,
it may fairly be assumed that this Masons
Hall Lodge had ceased to exist before the Re-
vival of Freemasonry in 1717, or else Ander-
son would not have said in the Constitutions of
1723 (p . 82) : "It is generally believ'd that
the said Company (i .e . the London Company
of Freemen Masons) is descended of the an-
* No doubt this was a copy of one of the Old
Charges .
tIn the edition of Ashmole's diary published
in 1774 this was changed into "I went, and about
noon was admitted . by Sir William Wilson
&c ." an error which has misled many Masonic
historians . See Ars Quatuor Coronatorum, vol . xi .,
p . 6, for a facsimile of the entry as in the original
diary .
ACCEPTED 	11
dent Fraternity ; and that in former Times no
Man was made Free of that Company until
he was install'd in some Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons, as a necessary Qualifica-
tion . But that laudable Practice seems to
have been long in Desuetude," which passage
would indicate that he was aware of some tra-
dition of such a Lodge as has been described
attached to the Masons Company admitting
persons in no way operatively connected with
the craft, who were called "Accepted Ma-
sons" to distinguish them from the Operative
or Free Masons . (Conder's Hole Craft and
Fellowship of Masonry and Ars Quatuor Cor-
onatorum, vol . ix .)
Anderson in the 1738 Constitutions quotes
from a copy of the old Constitutions some regu-
lations which he says were made in 1663, and
in which the phrases accepted a Free Mason
and Acceptation occur several times . These
regulations are found in what is known as the
Grand Lodge MS . No . 2, which is supposed
to have been written about the middle of
the 17th century, so that Anderson's date in
which he follows the Roberts Old Constitutions
printed in 1722 as to the year, though he
changes the day from December 8th to Decem-
ber 27th, may quite possibly be correct . And
Bro . Conder (Hole Craft, p . 11) calls special at-
tention to these regulations on account of the
singular resemblance that one of them bears
to the rules that govern the Masons Company .
The extracts given above from the books of
the Masons Company, the 1663 Regulations
(if that date be accepted), and the quotation
from Ashmole's diary, are the earliest known
instances of the term "Accepted" Masons
for although the Inigo Jones MS . is headed
"The Antient Constitutions of the Free and
Accepted Masons 1607," yet there is a consen-
sus of opinion among experts that such date
is impossible and that the MS . is really to be
referred to the end of the 17th century or even
the beginning of the 18th ; and the next in-
stance of the use of the term is in 1686 when
Dr . Plot in The Natural History of Stafford-
shire wrote with reference to the secret signs
used by the Freemasons of his time "if any
man appear, though altogether unknown, that
can shew any of these signer to a Fellow of the
Society whom they otherwise call an Ac-
cepted Mason, he is obliged presently to come
to him from what company or place soever he
be in, nay, though from the top of steeple ."
Further, in 1691, John Aubrey, author of
The Natural History of Wiltshire, made a
note in his MS . "This day (May 18, 1691) is a
great convention at St . Paula Church of the
fraternity of the free Masons," in which he
has erased the word free and substituted ac-
cepted, which, however, he changed into adopted
in his fair copy .
In the "Orders to be observed by the Com-
pany and Fellowship of Freemasons att a
Lodge held at Alnwick, Septr . 29, 1701 being
the Gen" Head Meeting Day,"we find :' l There
shall noe apprentice after he have served
seaven years be admitted or accepted but
upon the Feast of St . Michael the Arehangell ."

12 	ACCLAMATION
And from that time onward the term Ac-
cepted Masons becomes common, usually in
connection with Free : the term Free and Ac-
cepted Masons thus signifying both the Oper-
ative members who were free of their 	d
and the Speculative members who had een
accepted as outsiders . Thus the Roberts Print
of 1722 is headed, " The Old Constitutions be-
longing to the Ancient and Honourable So-
ciety of Free and Accepted Masons," and in
the Constitutions of 1723 Anderson speaks of
wearing " the Badges of a Free and Acce p ted
Mason" (p . 48) and uses the phrase in Rule
27, though he does not use the phrase so fre-
q yently as in the 1738 edition in which " the
Charges of a Free-Mason " become " the old
Charges of the Free and Acce p ted Masons,"
the " General Regulations " become " The
General Regulations of the Free and Ac-
cepted Masons, and regulation No . 5 ." " No
man can be made or admitted a Member "
becomes " No man can be accepted a Mem-
ber," while the title of the book is " The new
book of Constitutions of the Antient and
Honourable Fraternity of Free and Accepted
Masons " instead of " The Constitutions of
the Free-Masons," as in the earlier edition .
[E . L . H .]
Acclamation . 	A certain form of words
used in connection with the battery . In the
Scottish rite it is hoshea ; in the French vivat ;
in Adoptive Masonry it was Eva ; and in the
rite of Misraim, hallelujah . 	(See Battery .)
Accolade . 	From the Latin ad and collum,
around the neck . It is generally but incor-
rectly supposed that the accolade means the
blow given on the neck of a newly created
knight with the flat of the sword . The best
authorities define it to be the embrace, accom-
panied with the kiss of peace, by which the
new knight was at his creation welcomed into
the Order of Knighthood by the sovereign or
lord who created him . (See Knighthood .)
Accord . We get this word from the two
Latin ones ad cor, to the heart, and hence it
means hearty consent . Thus in Wielif's trans-
lation we find the phrase in Philippians, which
in the Authorized Version is " with one ac-
cord," rendered "with one will, with one
heart ." Such is its signification in the Masonic
formula, " free will and accord," that is, "free
will and hearty consent ." (See Free Will and
Accord .)
Accuser . In every trial in a Lodge for an
offense against the laws and regulations or the
p rinciples of Masonry any Master Mason may
be the accuser of another, but a profane can-
not be permitted to prefer charges against a
Mason . Yet, if circumstances are known to a
profane upon which charges ought to be predi-
cated, a Master Mason ma y avail himself of
that information, and out of it frame an accu-
sation to be presented to the Lod ge . 	And
such accusation will be received and investi-
gated, although remotely derived from one
who is not a member of the Order .
It is not necessary that the accuser should
be a member of the same Lodge . It is suffi-
cient if he is an affiliated Mason ; but it is gen-
ACHISHAR
erally held that an unaffiliated Mason is no
more competent to prefer charges than a pro-
fane .
In consequence of the Junior Warden being
p laced over the Craft during the hours of re-
freshment, and of his being charged at the
time of his installation to see " that none of
the Craft be suffered to convert the purposes
of refreshment into those of 'intemperance and
excess," it has been very generally su posed
that it is his duty as the prosecuting Meer of
the Lodge, to p refer charges against an mem-
ber who, by his conduct, has made himself
amenable to the penal jurisdiction of the
Lodge . We know of no ancient regulation
which imposes this unpleasant duty upon the
Junior	Junior Warden but it does seem to be a very
natural deduction, from his peculiar preroga-
tive as the custos morum or guardian of the
conduct of the Craft, that in all cases of vio-
lation of the law he should, after due efforts
toward producing a reform, be the proper
officer to bring the conduct of the offending
brother to the notice of the Lodge .
Aceldama, from the S yro- Chaldaic, mean-
ing field of blood, so called because it was pur-
chased with the blood-money which was p aid
to Judas Iscariot for betra y in g !is Lord . It is
situated on the slope of the hills beyond the
valley of Hinnom and to the south of Mount
Zion . The earth there was believed, by early
writers, to have possessed a corrosive quality,
by means of which bodies deposited in it were
quickly consumed ; and hence it was used b y
the Crusaders, then by the Knights Hospital-
ers, and afterward b y the Armenians, as a
place of sepulture, and the Empress Helena is
said to have built a charnel-house in its midst .
Dr . Robinson (Biblical Researches, i . p . 524)
says that the field is not now marked by any
boundary to distinguish it from the rest of the
field, and the former charnel house is now a
ruin . The field of Aceldama is referred to in
the ritual of the Knights Templars .
Aeerrellos, B . S . A nom de plume assumed
b y Carl Rossler, a German Masonic writer .
(See Rossler .)
Achad . 	One of the names of God . The
word `V1tt, Achad, in Hebrew signifies one or
unity . 	It has been adopted by the Masons as
one of the appellations of the Deity from the
p assage in Deuteronomy (vi . 4) : "Hear, 0
Israel : the Lord our God is (Ached) one
Lord" ; which the Jews wear on their phylac-
teries, and pronounce with great fervor as a
confession of their faith in the unity of God .
Speaking of God as Aclcad, the Rabbis say ,
" God is one (Ached) and man is one (Ached) .
Man, however, is not purely one, because he is
made up of elements and has another like him-
self ; but the oneness of God is a oneness that
has no boundary ."
Acharon Schilton . InHebrew1t9~TD ,11rHt,
signifying the new kingdom . Significant words
in some of the high degrees .
Aehlas . A corru p tion of the Hebrew Achi-
jah, the brother of Jah ; a significant word in
some of the high degrees .
Achishar . 	Mentioned in 1 Kings (iv . 6)

ACHTARIEL
under the name of Ahishar, and there de-
scribed as being " over the household " of
King Solomon . This was a situation of great
importance in the East, and equivalent to the
modern office of Chamberlain . The Steward
in a Council of Select Masters is said to rep-
resent Achishar .
Achtariel . A Kabbalistic name of God be-
longing to the Crown or first of the ten sephi-
roth ; and hence signifying the Crown or God .
Acknowledged . When one is initiated into
the degree of Most Excellent Ma ter, he is
technically said to be " received and acknowl-
edged " as a Most Excellent Master . This
expression refers to the tradition of the degree
which states that when the Temple had been
completed and dedicated, King Solomon re-
ceived and acknowledged the most expert of
the craftsmen as Most Excellent Masters .
That is, he received them into the exalted rank
of perfect and acknowledged workmen, and
acknowledged their right to that title . The verb
to acknowledge here means to own or admit, to
belong to, as, to acknowledge a son .
Acousmatiei . 	The primary class of the
disciples of Pythagoras, who served a five
years' probation of silence, and were hence
called acousmatici or hearers . 	According to
Porphyry, they received only the elements of
intellectual and moral instruction, and, after
the expiration of their term of probation, they
were advanced to the rank of Mathematici .
(See Pythagoras .)
Acquittal . 	Under this head it may be
pro pe r to discuss two questions of Masonic law .
1 . Can a Mason, having been acquitted by the
courts of the country of an offense with which
he has been charged, be tried by his Lodge for
the same offense? And, 2 . Can a Mason, hav-
ing been acquitted by his Lodge on insuffi-
cient evidence, be subjected, on the discovery
and production of new and more complete
evidence, to a second trial for the same of-
fense? To both of these questions the correct
answer would seem to be in the affirmative .
1 . An acquittal of a crime by a temporal
court does not relieve a Mason from an in-
quisition into the same offense by his Lodge ;
for acquittals may be the result of some tech-
nicality of law, or other cause, where, although
the party is relieved from legal punishment,
his guilt is still manifest in the eyes of the com-
munity ; and if the Order were to be controlled
by the action of the courts, the character of
the Institution might be injuriously affected
by its permitting a man, who had escaped
without honor from the punishment of the
law, to remain a member of the Fraternity .
In the language of the Grand Lodge of Texas,
" an acquittal by a jury, while it may, and
should, in some circumstances, have its influ-
ence in deciding on the course to be pursued,
yet has no binding force in Masonry . We de-
cide on our own rules, and our own view of the
facts ." 	(Proc . G . L . Tex ., vol . ii ., p . 273 . )
2 . To come to a correct apprehension of the
second question, we must remember that it is
a long-settled principle of Masonic law, that
every offense which a Mason . commits is an
ACTA 	13
injury to the whole Fraternity, inasmuch as
the bad conduct of a single member reflects
discredit on the whole Institution . This is a
very old and well-established princi p le of the
Institution ; and hence we find the Old Consti-
tutions declarin g that Masons "should never
be thieves nor thieves' maintainers ." 	(Cooke
MS ., 1 . 916 .) The safety of the Institution
requires that no evil-disposed member should
be tolerated with impunity in bringing dis-
grace on the Craft . And, therefore, although
it is a well-known maxim of the common law-
nemo debet bis puniri pro uno delicto-that is,
" that no one should be twice placed in peril of
punishment for the same crime," yet we must
also remember that other and fundamental
maxim-salus 	populi suprema 	lex-which
may, in its application to Masonry, be well
translated, " the well-being of the Order is
the first great law ." To this everything else
must yield ; and, therefore, if a member, hav-
ing been accused of a heinous offense and tried,
shall, on his trial, for want of sufficient evi-
dence, be acquitted, or, being convicted, shall,
for the same reason, be punished by an inad-
equate penalty-and if he shall thus be per-
mitted to remain in the Institution with the
stigma of the crime upon him, "whereby the
Craft comes to shame, ' then, if new and more
sufficient evidence shall be subsequently dis-
covered, it is just and right that a new trial
shall be had, so that he may, on this newer
evidence, receive that punishment which will
vindicate the reputation of the Order . No
technicalities of law, no plea of autrefois acquit
nor mere verbal exception, should be allowed
for the escape of a guilty member ; for so long
as he lives m the Order, every man is subject
to its discipline . A hundred wrongful ac uit-
tals of a bad member, who still bears with
the reproach of his evil life, can never dis-
charge the Order from its paramount duty of
protecting its own good fame and removing
the delinquent member from its fold . To this
great dut y all private and individual rights
and privileges must succumb, for the well-
being of the Order is the first great law in
Masonry .
Acta Latomorum,ou Chronologie de 1'His-
toire de la Franche-Maconnerie frangaise et
etrangere, etc . That is : " The Acts of the
Freemasons, or a chronological history of
French and Foreign Freemasonry, etc ." This
work, written or compiled by Claude Antoine
Thory, was published at Paris, in 2 vols ., 8vo,
in 1815 . It contains the most remarkable
facts in the history of the Institution from ob-
scure times to the year 1814 ; the succession of
Grand Masters ; a nomenclature of rites, de-
grees, and secret associations in all the coun-
tries of the world ; a bibliography of the prin-
cipal works on Freemasonry published since
1723 ; and a supplement in which the author
has collected a variety of rare and important
Masonic documents . Of this work, which has
never been translated into English, Lenning
says (Encycl . der Freimaurerei) that it is,
without dispute, the most scientific work on
Freemasonry that French literature has ever

14 	ACTING
produced . It must, however, be confessed that
in the historical portion Thory has committed
many errors in respect to English and Ameri-
can Freemasonry, and therefore if ever trans-
lated, the work will require much emendation .
(See Thory .)
Acting Grand Master . The Duke of Cum-
berland (grandson of George II ., brother of
George III .) having in April, 1782, been
elected Grand Master of England, it was re-
solved by the Grand Lodge " that whenever a
prince of the blood did the society the honour
to accept the office of Grand Master, he should
be at liberty to nominate an peer of the
realm to be the acting Grand Master ." (Con-
stitutions of G . L, of England, ed . 1784, p . 341 .)
The officer thus provided to be appointed was
subsequently called in the Constitutions of the
G . Lodge of England, ed . 1841, and is now
called the Pro Grand Master .
In the American system, the officer who per-
forms the duties of Grand Master in case of
the removal, death, or inability of that officer,
is known as the Acting Grand Master . For
the regulations which prescribe the proper
person to perform these duties see Grand
Master .
Active Lodge . A Lodge is said to be active
when it is neither dormant nor suspended, but
regularly meets and is occupied in the labors
of Masonry .
Active Member . 	An active member of
a Lodge is one who, in contradistinction to an
honorary member, assumes all the burdens of
membership, such as contributions, arrers
and participation in its labors, and is invested
with all the rights of membership, such as
speaking, voting, and holding office .
Actual Past Masters . 	This term is some-
times applied to those who have actually
served as Master of a Craft Lodge in order to
distinguish them from those who have been
made " Virtual Past Masters," in Chapters
of the United States, or "Past Masters of Arts
and Sciences," in English Chapters, as a pre-
liminary to receiving the Royal Arch degree .
(See Past Master .)
Adad . 	The name of the principal god
among the Syrians, and who, as representing
the sun, had, according to Macrobius (Sa-
turnal, i ., 23), an image surrounded b rays .
Macrobius, however, is wrong, as Selden has
shown (De Diis S ris, i ., 6), in confounding
Adad with the Hebrew Ached, or one-a
name, from its signification of unity, applied
to the Great Architect of the Universe . The
error of Macrobius, however, has been perpet-
uated by the inventors of the high degrees of
Masonry who have incorporated Adad, as a
name of (xod, among their significant words .
Adam . 	The name of the first man . The
Hebrew word C"I$ ADaM, signifies man in
a generic sense, the human species collectively,
and is said to be derived from 1VIfi,
ADaMaH, the ground, because the first man
was made out of the dust of the earth, or from
ADAM, to be red, in reference to his ruddy
complexion . It is most probably in this col-
lective sense, as the representative of the whole
ADAM
human race, and, therefore, the type of hu-
manity, that the presiding officer in a Council of
Knights of the Sun the Twenty-eighth Degree
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, is
called Father Adam, and is occupied in the in-
vestigation of the great truths which so much
concern the interests of the race . Adam, in
that degree, is man seeking after divine truth .
The Kabbalists and Talmudists have invented
many things concerning the first Adam, none
of which are, however, worthy of preservation .
(See Knight of the Sun .)
Adam . 	* The Entered Apprentice degree
symbolizes the creation of man and his first
perception of light . In the Elohist form of the
Creation we read, " Elohim said, `Let us
make man in our image, according to our like-
ness, and let him have dominion over the fishes
of the sea, over the fowls of the air, over the
cattle, and over all the earth, and over every
reptile that creeps upon the earthl' And Elo-
him created man in his image ; in the image of
Elohim he created him ; male and female he
created them . . . . AndYahvehElohimformed
man of the dust of the ground, and breathed
in his nostrils the breath of life, and man was
made a living being ." Without giving more
than a passing reference to the speculative
origin and production of man and to his spon-
taneous generation 	(Principe Generateur)
as set forth by the Egyptians, when we are told
that " the fertilizing mud left by the Nile, and
exposed to the vivifying action of heat induced
by the sun's rays, brought forth germs which
spring up as the bodies of men," accepted cos-
mogonies only will be hereinafter mentioned ;
thus in that of Peru, the first man, created by
the 	ivi calle ascaD"
Animated
earth . ; The Mandans, one
of the North American tribes relate that the
Great Spirit molded two figures of clay,
which he dried and animated with the breath
of his mouth, one receiving the name of First
Man, and the other that of Companion .
Taeroa, the god of Tahiti, formed man of the
red earth, say the inhabitants ; and so we
might continue . But as Frangois Lenormant
remarks in the Beginnings of History, let us
confine ourselves to the cosmogony offered by
the sacred traditions of the great civilized
nations of antiquity . 	" The Chaldeans call
Adam the man whom the earth produced .
And he lay without movement, without life,
and without breath, just like an image of the
heavenly Adam, until his soul had been given
him by the latter ." The cosmogonic account
peculiar to Babylon, as given by Berossus,
says : " Belos, seeing that the earth was unin-
habited, though fertile, cut off his own head,
and the other gods, after kneading with earth
the blood that flowed from it, formed men,
who therefore are endowed with intelligence,
and share in the divine thought," etc . The
term employed to designate " man " in his
connection with his Creator, is admu, the
Assyrian counterpart of the Hebrew Adam .
(G . Smith, Chaldean Account of Genesis .)
* This article is by C . T . McClenachan .

ADAM
Lenormant further says, that the fragments of
Berossus give Adorns as the name of the first
patriarch, and Adiuru has been discovered on
the cuneiform inscriptions .
Zoroaster makes the creation of man the
voluntary act of a personal god, distinct from
primordial matter, and his theory stands
alone among the learned religions of the an-
cient world .
According to Jewish tradition in the Targu-
mim and the Talmud, as also to Moses Mai-
monides, Adam was created man and woman
at the same time, having two faces, turned in
two opposite directions, and that during a
stupor the Creator, separated Havvah, his fem-
inine half, from him, in order to make of her a
distinct person . Thus were separated the pri-
mordial androgyn .
With Shemites and Mohammedans Adam
was symbolized in the Lingam, whilst with the
Jews Seth was their Adam or Lingam, and suc-
cessively Noah took the place of Seth, and so
followed Abraham and Moses . The worship of
Adam as the God-like idea, succeeded by
Seth, Noah, Abraham, and Moses, through
the symbolism of pillars, monoliths, obelisks,
or Matsebas (images), gave rise to other sym-
bolic images, as where Noah was adored under
the emblems of a man, ark, and serpent, sig-
nifying heat, fire, or passion .
Upon the death of Adam, says traditional
history, the pious Gregory declared that the
" dead body should be kept above ground, till a
fulness of time should come to commit it to
the middle of the earth by a priest of the most
high God ." This traditional prophecy was ful-
filled, it is said, by the body of Adam having
been preserved in a chest until about 1800
B .c ., when "Melchizedek buried the body in
Salem (formerly the name of Jerusalem),
which might very well be the middle of the
habitable world ."
The Sethites used to say their prayers daily
in the Ark before the body of Adam . J . G. R .
Forlong, in his Rivers of Life, tells us that " It
appears from both the Sabid Aben Batric and
the Arabic Catena, that there existed the fol-
lowing `short litany, said to have been con-
ceived b y Noah .' Then follows the prayer of
Noah, which was used for so long a period by
the Jewish Freemasons at the opening of the
Lode :
" 0 Lord, excellent art thou in thy truth,
and there is nothing great in comparison of
thee . Look upon us with the eye of mercy and
compassion . Deliver us from this deluge of
waters, and set our feet in a large room . By
the sorrows of Adam, the first made man ;
by the blood of Abel, thy holy one ; by the
righteousness of Seth, in whom thou art well
p leased ; number us not amongst those who
have transgressed thy statutes, but take us
into thy merciful care, for thou art our Deliv-
erer, and thine is the praise for all the works of
thy hand for evermore . And the sons of
Noah said, Amen, Lord ."'
The Master of the Lodge would omit the
reference to the deluge and add the following
to the prayer : 11 But grant, we beseech thee,
ADAR 	15
that the ruler of this lodge may be endued
with knowledge and wisdom to instruct us
and explain his secret mysteries, as our holy
brother Moses did (in his lodge) to Aaron, to
Eleazar, and to Ithamar (the sons of Aaron),
and the several elders of Israel ."
Adam Hadmon . 	In the Kabbalistic doc-
trine, the name given to the first emanation
from the Eternal Fountain . It signifies the
first man, or the first production of divine
ener*y, or the son of God, and to it the other
and inferior emanations are subordinate .
Adams, John Quincy, the sixth President
of the United States, who served from 1825 to
1829 . Mr . Adams, who has been very prop-
erly described as " a man of strong points and
weak ones of vast reading and wonderful
memory, oi great credulity and strong preju-
dices," became notorious in the latter years of
his life for his virulent o p position to Free-
masonry . The writer already quoted, who had
an excellent opportunity of seeing intimately
the workings of the spirit of anti-Masonry,
says of Mr . Adams : " He hated Freemasonry,
as he did many other thin g s, not from any
harm that he had received from it orPerson-
ally knew respecting it, but because his cre-
dulity had been wrought upon and his pr~ e ~ju-
dices excited against it by dishonest and selfish
politicians, who were anxious, at any sacrifice
to him, to avail themselves of the influence
of his commanding talents and position
in public life to sustain them in the disrepu-
table work in which they were enlisted . In
his weakness, he lent himself to them . He
united his energies to theirs in an impractica-
ble and unworthy cause ." (C . W . Moore,
Freemasons' Mag ., vol . vii ., p . 314 .) The result
was a series of letters abusive of Freemasonry,
directed to leading politicians, and published
in the public journals from 1831 to 1833 . A
year before his death they were collected and
published under the title of Letters on the
Masonic Institution, by John Quincy Adams .
(Boston, 1847, 8vo, pp . 284 .) Some explana-
tion of the cause of the virulence with which
Mr . Adams attacked the Masonic Institution
in these letters may be found in the followin g
paragraph contained in an anti-Masonic work
written by onHenr y Gassett, and affixed to
his Catalogue of Books on the Masonic
Institution . 	(Boston, 1852 .) "It had been
asserted in a newspaper in Boston, edited by
a Masonic dignitary, that John Q . Adams was
a Mason . In answer to an inquiry from a per-
son in New York State, whether he was so
Mr . Adams replied that 'he was not, and
never should be .' These few words, undoubt-
edly, prevented his election a second time as
President of the United States . His competitor,
Andrew Jackson, a Freemason, was elected ."
Whether the statement contained in the ital-
icized words be true or not, is not the ques-
tion . It is sufficient that Mr . Adams was led
to believe it, and hence his ill-will to an asso-
ciation which had, as he sup p osed, inflicted
this political evil on him, and baked his am-
bitious views .
Adar . Hebrew, TIN ; the sixth mgnth 9f

16 	ADAREL
the civil and the twelfth of the ecclesiastical
year of the Jews . It corresponds to a part of
February and of March .
Adarel . 	Angel of Fire . Referred to in the
Hermetic degree of Knight of the Sun . Prob-
ably from TItt, Adr, splendor, and Sit, El,
God, i . e ., the splendor of God or Divine splen-
dor .
Addresses, Masonic . Dr . Oliver, speaking
of the Masonic discourses which began to be
published soon after the reorganization of
Masonry, in the commencement of the eigh-
teenth century, and which he thinks were in-
stigated by the attacks made on the Order, to
which they were intended to be replies, says :
" Charges and addresses were therefore de-
livered by, brethren in authority on the funda-
mental principles of the Order, and they were
printed to show that its morality was sound,
and not in the slightest degree repugnant to
the precepts of our most holy religion . These
were of sufficient merit to insure a wide circu-
lation among the Fraternity, from whence
they spread into the world at large and
proved decisive in fixing the credit of tie In-
stitution for solemnities of character and a
taste for serious and profitable investiga-
tions ."
There can be no doubt that these addresses,
periodically delivered and widely published,
have continued to exert an excellent effect in
behalf of the Institution, by explaining and
defending the principles on which it is founded .
The first Masonic address of which we have
any notice was delivered on the 24th of June,
1721, before the Grand Lodge of England, by
the celebrated John Theophilus Desaguliers,
LL .D . and F .R .S . The Book of Constitu-
tions (ed . 1738, p . 113) under that date, says
" Bro . Desaguliers made an eloquent oration
about Masons and Masonry ." 	Dr . Oliver
(Revelations of a Square, p . 22) states that
this address was issued in a printed form, but
no copy of it now remains-at least it has es-
caped the researches of the most diligent Mar
sonic bibliographers .
On the 20th of May, 1725, Martin Folkes,
then Deputy Grand Master, delivered an ad-
dress before the Grand Lodge of England,
which is cited in the Freemason's Pocket Com-
panion for 1759, but no entire copy of the ad-
dress is now extant .
The third Masonic address of which we have
any knowledge is one entitled " A Speech de-
livered to the Worshipful and Ancient Society
of Free and Accepted Masons, at a Grand
Lodge held at Merchants' Hall, in the city of
York, on St . John's Day Dec . 27, 1726, the
Right Worshipful Charces Bathurst, Esq .,
Grand Master . By the Junior Grand Warden .
Olim meminisse juvabit . 	York : Printed by
Thomas Gent, for the benefit of the Lodge . '
The author was Francis Drake, M .D ., F .R .S .,
who was appointed Junior Grand Warden of
the Grand Lodge of All England at York on De-
cember 27, 1725 . (See Drake, Francis .) The
first edition of the speech bears no date, but
was probably issued in 1727, and it was again
published at London in 1729, and a second
ADDRESSES
London edition was published in 1734, which
has been reprinted in Hughan's Masonic
Sketches and Reprints (American edition,
p . 106) . This is, therefore, the earliest Ma-
sonic address to which we have access . It
contains a brief sketch of the history of Ma-
sonry, written as Masonic history was then
written . 	It is, however, remarkable for ad-
vancing the claim of the Grand Lodge of York
to a superiority over that of London, and for
containing a very early reference to the three
degrees of Craft Masonry .
The fourth Masonic address of whose exist-
ence we have any knowledge is " a Speech
Deliver'd to the Worshipful Society of Free
and Accepted Masons, at a Lodge, held at the
Carpenters Arms in Silver-Street, Golden
Square, the 31st of December, 1728 . By the
Right Worshipful Edw . Oakley, Architect,
M .M ., late Provincial Senior Grand Warden
in Carmarthen South Wales ." This s eech
was reprinted ~y Cole in his Ancient Consti-
tutions at London in 1731 .
America has the honor of presenting the
next attempt at Masonic oratory . The fifth
address, and the first American, which is ex-
tant, is one delivered in Boston, Mass . on
June 24, 1734 . It is entitled "A :Dis-
sertation upon Masonry, delivered to a Lodge
in America, June 24th 1734 . Christ's Regm ."
It was discovered by i3ro . C . W . Moore in the
archives of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts,
and published by him in his magazine in 1849 .
This address is well written, and of a symbolic
character, as the author allegorizes the Lodge
as a type of heaven .
And, sixthly , we have " An Address made to
the body of Free and Accepted Masons as-
sembled at a Quarterly Communication, held
near Temple Bar, December 11, 1735, by Mar-
tin Clare, Junior Grand Warden ." Martin
Clare was distinguished in his times as a
Mason, and his address, which Dr . Oliver has
inserted in his Golden Remains, has been con-
sidered of value enough to be translated into
the French and German languages .
Next, on March 21, 1737, the Chevalier
Ramsay delivered an oration before the Grand
Lodge of France, in which he attributed the
origin of Freemasonry to the Crusaders and
traced an imaginary history of its course
through Scotland and England into France .
which was to become the center of the re-
formed Order . The best report of this speed
is to be found in the Histoire &c . de la tr .
ven . Confraternitk des F . M . &c . 	Traduit pa ;
le Fr . de la Tierce . Francfort, 1742 ; and an
English version of it is given in Gould's His .
tory of Freemasonry (iii ., 84-9) . 	(See Ram-
'sayAter this period, Masonic addresses rapidly
multiplied, so that it would be impossible to
record their titles or even the names of their
authors .
What Martial (i ., 17) says of his own api-
grams, that some were good, some bad, and s
great many middling, may with equal pro .
priety and justice, be said of Masonic ad •
dresses . Of the thousands that have been de

ADELPH
livered, many have been worth neither printing
nor preservation .
One thing, however is to be remarked : that
within a few years the literary character of
these productions has greatly improved . For-
merly, a Masonic address on some festal oc-
casion of the Order was little more than a hom-
ily on brotherly love or some other Masonic
virtue . 	Often the orator was a clergyman, se-
lected by the Lodge on account of his moral
character or his professional ability . 	These
clergymen were frequently among the young-
est members of the Lodge, and men who had
no opportunity to study the esoteric construc-
tion of Masonry . In such cases we will find
that the addresses were generally neither more
nor less than sermons under another name .
They contain excellent general axioms of con-
duct, and sometimes encomiums on the laud-
able design of our Institution . But we look in
vain in them for any ideas which refer to the
history or to the occult philosophy of Ma-
sonry . They accept the definition that " Free-
masonry is a science of morality veiled in alle-
gory and illustrated by symbols, ;' only in part .
They expatiate on the science of morality, but
they say nothing of the symbols or the alle-
gories . But, as has been already said, there
has been an evident improvement within a few
years, in America especially for the reform
has not equally extended to 'England . Many
of the addresses now delivered are of a higher
order of Masonic literature . The subjects of
Masonic history, of the origin of the Institu-
tion, of its gradual development from an
operative art to a speculative science, of its
symbols, and of its peculiar features which
distinguish it from all other associations, have
been ably discussed in many recent Masonic
addresses, and thus have the efforts to enter-
tain an audience for an hour become not only
the means of interesting instruction to the
hearers, but also valuable contributions to
the literature of Freemasonry .
It is in this way that Masonic addresses
should be written. All platitudes and old
truisms should be avoided ; sermonizing, which
is good in its place, is out of place here . No one
should undertake to deliver a Masonic address
unless he knows something of the subject on
which he is about to speak, and unless he is
capable of saying what will make every Mason
who hears him a wiser as well as a better man,
or at least what will afford him the opportu-
nity of becoming so .
Adelph . 	From 	the Greek &E€XJs (a
brother) . The first degree of the order of the
Palladium (q v .) . Reghellini says that there
exists in the Masonic archives of Douai the rit-
ual of a Masonic Society, called Adelphs
which has been communicated to the Grant
Orient, but which he thinks is the same as the
Primitive Rite of Narbonne .
Adept . 	One fully skilled or well versed in
any art; from the Latin word "Adeptus,"
having obtained, because the Adept claimed to
be in the possession of all the secrets of his
peculiar mystery . The Alchemists or Her-
metic philosophers assumi .d the title of Adepts .
ADJOURNMENT 	17
(See Alchemy .) Of the Hermetic Adepts, who
were also sometimes called Rosicrucians,
Spence thus writes, in 1740, to his mother-
" Have you ever heard of the people called
Adepts? They are a set of philosophers supe .
rior to whatever appeared among the Greeks
and Romans . The three great points they drive
at, are, to be free from poverty, distempers,
and death ; and, if you believe them, they have
found out one secret that is capable of freeing
them from all three . There are never more
than twelve of these men in the whole world at
a time ; and we have the happiness of having
one of the twelve at this time in Turin . I am
very well acquainted with him, and have often
talked with him of their secrets, as far as he is
allowed to talk to a common mortal of them ."
(Spence's Letter to his Mother, in Singer's An-
ecdotes, p . 403 .) In a similar allusion to the
possession of abstruse knowledge, the word is
applied to some of the high degrees of Ma-
sonr .
A ept, Prince . 	One of the names of the
28th degree of the Ancient and Accepted Scot-
tish Rite . 	(See Knight of the Sun .) 	It was
the 23d degree of the System of the Chapter of
Emperors of the East and West of Clermont .
Adept, the . 	A Hermetic degree of the col-
lection of A . Viany (q . v .) . 	It is also the 4th
degree of the Rite of Relaxed Observance, and
the 1st of the high degrees of the Rite of
Elects of Truth . 	" It has much analogy,"
says Thory "with the degree of Knight of
the Sun ." it is also called " Chaos disentan-
gled . , '
Adeptus Adoptatus . 	The 7th degree of
the Rite of Zinnendorf, consisting of a kind of
chemical and pharmaceutical instruction .
Adeptus Coronatus . Called also Templar
Master of the Key . 	The 7th degree of the
Swedish Rite (q . v .) .
Adeptus Exemptus . The 7th degree of the
system adopted by those German Rosicru-
cians who were known as the " Gold and Ros-
enkreutzer," or the Gold and Rosy Cross,
and whom Lenning supposes to have been the
first who engrafted Rosicrucianism on Ma-
sonry .
Adhering Mason . 	Those Masons who,
during the anti-Masonic excitement in Amer-
ica, on account of the supposed abduction
of Morgan, refused to leave their Lodges and
renounce Masonry 	were so called . 	They
embraced among their number some of the
wisest, best, and most influential men of the
ce Adjurnment . C . W . Moore (Freemasons'
Mag ., xii ., p . 290) says : "We suppose it to be
generally conceded that Lodges cannot prop-
erly be adjourned . 	It has been so decided
by a large proportion of the Grand Lodges in
America, and tacitly, at least, concurred in by
all . We are not aware that there is a dis-
senting voice among them . 	It is, therefore,
safe to assume that the settled policy is against
adjournment ." The reason which he assigns
for this rule, is that adjournment is a method
used only in deliberative bodies, such as legis-
latures and courts, and as Lodges do not par-

18 	ADMIRATION
take of the character of either of these, ad-
journments are not applicable to them . The
rule which Bro. Moore lays down is undoubt-
edly correct, but the reason which he assigns
for it is not sufficient . If a Lodge were per-
mitted to adjourn by the vote of a majority of
its members, the control of the labor would be
placed in their hands . But according to the
whole spirit of the Masonic system, the Master
alone controls and directs the hours of labor .
In the 5th of the Old Charges, approved in
1722, it is declared that " All Masons shall
meekly receive their Wages without murmur-
ing or mutiny, and not desert the Master till the
Lord's work is fanish'd ." Now as the Master
alone can know when " the work is finished,"
the selection of the time of 1"k must be
vested in him . He is the sole judge of the
proper period at which the labors of the Lodge
should be terminated, and he may suspend
business even in the middle of a debate, if he
supposes that it is expedient to close the Lodge .
Hence no motion for adjournment can ever be
admitted in a Masonic Lodge . Such a motion
would be an interference with the prerogative
of the Master, and could not therefore be en-
tertained .
The Earl of Zetland, when Grand Master
of En land, ruled on November 19, 1856, that
a Loge has no power to adjourn except
to the next regular day of meet* g . He said :
" I may . . . say that Private Lodges are gov-
erned by much the same laws as Grand Lodges,
and that no meeting of a Private Lodge can
be adjourned ; but the Master of a Private
Lodge may, and does, convene Lodges of
Emergency ." 	(Freemasons' Magazine, 1856,
p 848 .
This prerogative of opening and closing his
Lodge is necessarily vested in the Master, be-
cause, by the nature of our Institution, he is
responsible to the Grand Lodge for the good
conduct of the body over which he presides .
He is charged, in those questions to which he
is required to give his assent at his installa-
tion, to hold the Landmarks in veneration, and
to conform to every edict of the Grand Lodge ;
and for any violation of the one or disobedi-
ence of the other by the Lodge, in his pres-
ence, he would be answerable to the supreme
Masonic authority . Hence the necessity that
an arbitrary power should be conferred upon
him, by the exercise of which he may at any
time be enabled to prevent the adoption of
resolutions, or the commission of any act
which would be subversive of, or contrary to,
those ancient laws and usages which he has
sworn to maintain and preserve .
Admiration, Sign of . A mode of recogni-
tion alluded to in the Most Excellent Master's
Degree, or the Sixth of the American Rite . Its
introduction in that place is referred to a Mar
sonic legend in connection with the visit of the
Queen of Sheba to King Solomon, which states
that moved by the wide-spread reputation of
the lsraelitish monarch, she had repaired to
Jerusalem to inspect the rn ignificent works of
which she had heard so many encomiums .
Upon arriving there, and beholding for the
ADMONITION
first time the Temple, which glittered with
gold, and which was so accurately adjusted
in all its parts as to seem to be composed of
but a sine piece of marble, she raised her
hands an eyes to heaven in an attitude of
admiration, and at the same time exclaimed,
" Rabboni! " equivalent to saying, " A most
excellent master hath done thisl " This action
has since been perpetuated in the ceremonies
of the degree of Most Excellent Master . The
legend is, however, no doubt apocryphal, and
is really to be considered only as allegorical,
like so many other of the legends of Masonry .
(See Sheba, Queen .)
Admission . 	Although the Old C 	es,
approved in 1722, use the word adm 	as
applicable to those who are initiated into the
mysteries of Freemasonry, yet the General
Regulations of 1721 employ the term admis-
sion in a sense different from that of initiation .
By the word making they imply the reception
of a profane into the Order, but by admission
they designate the election of a Mason into a
Lge . Thus we find such expressions as these
clearly indicating a difference in the meaning
of the two words . In Reg . v .-" No man can
be made or admitted a member of a particular
Lodge ." In Reg . vi .-" But no man can be
entered a brother in any particular Lodge, or
admitted to be a member thereof ." And more
distinctly in Reg . viii .-" No set or number of
brethren shall withdraw or separate them .
selves from the Lodge in which they were made
brethren or were afterwards admitted mem-
bers ." This distinction has not always been
rigidly preserved by recent writers ; but it is
evident that, correctly speaking, we should
always say of a profane who has been initiated
that he has been made a Mason, and of a
Mason who has been affiliated with a Lodge,
that he has been admitted a member . The
true definition of admission is, then, the re-
ception of an unaffiliated brother into member-
ship 	(See Affiliated Mason .)
Admonition . 	According to the ethics of
Freemasonry, it is made a duty obligatory
upon every member of the Order to conceal the
faults of a brother, that is, not to blazon
forth his errors and infirmities, to let them be
learned by the world from some other tongue
than his, and to admonish him of them in pri-
vate . 	So there is another but a like duty or
obligation, which instructs him to whisper
good counsel in his brother's ear and to warn
him of approaching danger . And this refers
not more to the danger that is without and
around him than to that which is within him ;
not more to the peril that springs from the
concealed foe who would waylay him and
covertly injure him, than to that deeper peril
of those faults and infirmities which lie within
his own heart, and which, if not timely crushed
by good and earnest resolution of amendment,
will, like the ungrateful serpent in the fable,
become warm with life only to sting the bosom
that has nourished them .
Admonition of a brother's fault is, then the
duty of every Mason, and no true one wila, for
either fear or favor, neglect its performance,

ADONAI
But as the duty is Masonic, so is there a Ma-
sonic way in which that duty should be dis-
charged . We must admonish not with self-
sufficient pride in our own reputed goodness-
not in imperious tones, as though we looked
down in scorn upon the degraded offender-
not in language that, by its harshness, will
wound rather than win, will irritate more than
it will reform ; but with that persuasive gen-
tleness that gains the heart-with the all-
subdum' ginfluences of " mercy unrestrained "
-with the magic might of love-with the lan-
guage and the accents of affection, which min-
gle grave displeasure for the offense with grief
and pity for the offender .
This, and this alone, is Masonic admoni-
tion . I am not to rebuke my brother in anger,
for I, too, have my faults, and I dare not draw
around me the folds of my garment lest they
should be polluted by my neighbor's touch ;
but I am to admonish in private, not before
the world, for that would degrade him ; and I
am to warn him, perhaps from my own exam-
ple, how vice ever should be followed by sor-
row, for that goodly sorrow leads to repen-
tance, and repentance to amendment, and
amendment to joy .
Adonal . In Hebrew, ,]`IN, being the plural
of excellence for Adon, and signifying the
Lord . 	The Jews, who reverently avoided the
pronunciation of the sacred name JEHovAH,
were accustomed, whenever that name oc-
curred, to substitute for it the word Adonai in
reading . As to the use of the plural form in-
stead of the singular, the Rabbis Bay, " Every
word indicative of dominion, though singular
in meaning, is made plural in form ." This is
called the " pluralie excellentiae ." The Tal-
mudists also say (Buxtroff, Lex . Talm .) that
the tetragrammaton is called Shem hamphor-
ash, the name that is explained, because it is
explained, uttered, and set forth by the word
Adonai . 	(See Jehovah and Shem Hamp-
horasch .) Adonai is used as a significant word
in several of the high degrees of Masonry, and
may almost always be considered as allusive
to or symbolic of the True Word .
Adonhiram . This has been adopted by the
disciples of Adonhiramite Masonry as the
fling of the name of the person known in
. pture and in other Masonic systems as
Adoniram (which see) . 	They correctly de-
rive the word from the Hebrew Adon and
hiram, signifying the master who is exalted,
which is the true meaning of Adoniram, the
or h being omitted in the Hebrew by the coal-
escence of the two words . Hiram Abif has also
sometimes been called Adonhiram, the Adon
having been bestowed on him by Solomon, it is
said, as a title of honor .
Adonhiramite Masonry . Of the numerous
controversies which arose from the middle to
near the end of the eighteenth century on the
Continent of Europe, and especially in France,
among the students of Masonic philosophy,
and which so frequently resulted in the in-
vention of new degrees and the establishment
of new rites, not the least prominent was that
which related to the person and character of
ADONHIRAMITE 	19
the Temple Builder . The question, Who was
the architect of King Solomon's Temple?
was answered differently by different theo-
rists, and each answer gave rise to a new sys-
tem, a fact by no means surprising in those
times, so fertile in the production of new Ma-
sonic systems . The general theory was then,
as it is now, that this architect was Hiram
Abif, the widow's son, who had been sent to
King Solomon by Hiram, King of Tyre, as a
precious 'ift and " a curious and cunning
workman .' this theory was sustained by the
statements of the Jewish Scriptures, so far as
they threw any light on the Masonic legend .
It was the theory of the English Masons from
the earliest times ; was enunciated as his-
torically correct in the first edition of the Book
of Constitutions, published in 1723 4p . 11) ;
has continued ever since to be the opinion of
all English and American Masons ; and is, at
this day, the only theory entertained by any
Mason in the two countries who has a theory
at all on the subject . This, therefore, is the
orthodox faith of Masonry .
But such was not the case in the last cen-
tury on the Continent of Europe . At first
the controversy arose not as to the man him-
self, but as to his proper appellation . All par-
ties agreed that the architect of the Temple
was that Hiram, the widow's son, who is de-
scribed in the 1st Book of Kings, chapter vii .
verses 13 and 14, and in the 2d Book oI
Chronicles, chapter ii ., verses 13 and 14, as
having come out of Tyre with the other work-
men of the Temple who had been sent by King
Hiram to Solomon . But one party called him
Hiram Abif, and the other, a dm itting that
his original name was Hiram, supposed that
in consequence of the skill he had displayed
in the construction of the Temple, he had re-
ceived the honorable affix of Adon, signifying
Lord or Master, whence -his name became
Adonhiram .
There was, however, at the Temple another
Adoniram, of whom it will be necessary in
passing to say a few words, for the better un-
derstanding of the present subject .
The first notice that we have of this Adon-
iram in Scripture is in the 2d Book of Samuel
chapter xx ., verse 24, where, in the abbreviated
form of his name Adoram, he is said to have
been "over the tribute " in the house of David ;
or, as Gesenius translates it, " prefect over the
tribute service," or, as we might say in modern
phrase, principal collector of the taxes . Seven
years afterward, we find him exercising the
same office in the household of Solomon ; for it
is said in 1 Kings iv . 6 that Adoniram, " the
son of Abda, was over the tribute ." And lastly,
we hear of him still occu~pying the same sta-
tion in the household of Zing Rehoboam, the
successor of Solomon . Forty-seven years after
he is first mentioned in the look of Samuel, he
is stated under the name of Adoram (1 Kings
xii . 18), or Hadoram (2 Chron . x . 18), to have
been stoned to death, while in the discharge of
his duty, by the people, who were justly in-
dignant at the oppressions of his master .
The legends and traditions of Masonry

20 	ADONHIRAMITE 	ADONHIRAMITE
which connect this Adoniram with the Temple
at Jerusalem derive their support from a single
passage in the 1st Book of Kings (v . 14)
where it is said that Solomon made a levy o'
thirty thousand workmen from among the Is-
raelites ; that he sent these in courses of ten
thousand a month to labor on Mount Leb-
anon, and that he placed Adoniram over these
as their superintendent .
The ritual-makers of France, who were not
all Hebrew scholars, nor well versed in Biblical
history, seem, at times, to have confounded
two important personages, and to have lost all
distinction between Hiram the Builder, who
had been sent from the court of the King of
Tyre, and Adoniram, who had always been an
officer in the court of King Solomon . And this
error was extended and facilitated when they
had prefixed the title Adon, that is to say,
lord or master, to the name of the former,
making him Adon Hiram, or the Lord Hiram .
Thus, in the year 1744, one Louis Travenol
published at Paris, under the pseudonym of
Leonard Gabanon, a work entitled Catechisme
des Francs Masons, ou Le Secret des Masons in
which he says : " Besides the cedars of Leia-
non, Hiram made a much more valuable gift to
Solomon, in the person of Adonhiram, of his
own race, the son of a widow of the tribe of
Naphtali . His father, who was named Hur,
was an excellent architect and worker in met-
als . Solomon, knowing his virtues, his merit,
and his talents, distinguished him by the most
eminent position, intrusting to him the con-
struction of the Temple and the superinten-
dence of all the workmen ." 	(Recueil Pre-
cieux, p . 76 .)
From the language of this extract, and from
the reference in the title of the booktoAdoram,
which we know was one of the names of Solo-
mon's tax-collector, it is evident that the au-
thor of the catechism has confounded Hiram
Abif, who came out of Tyre, with Adoniram,
the son of Abda, who had always lived at Jeru-
salem ; that is to say, with unpardonable igno-
rance of Scripture history and Masonic tra-
dition, he has supposed the two to be one and
the same person . Notwithstanding this liter-
ary blunder, the catechism became popular
with many Masons of that day, and thus arose
the first schism or error in relation to the
legend of the Third Degree . In Solomon in
all His Glory, an English exposure published
in 1766, Adoniram takes the place of Hiram,
but this work is a translation from a similar
French one, and so it must not be argued that
English Masons ever held this view .
At length, other ritualists, seeing the incon-
sistency of referring the character of Hiram,
the widow's son, to Adoniram the receiver of
taxes, and the impossibility of t reconciling the
discordant facts in the life of both, resolved to
cut the Gordian knot by refusing any Masonic
position to the former, and making the latter,
alone, the architect of the Temple . It cannot
be denied that Josephus (viii . 2) states that
Adoniram, or, as he calls him, Adoram was,
at the very beginning of the labor, placed over,
the workmen who prepared the materials on called the 1st and 2d of Kings .
Mount Lebanon, and that he speaks of Hiram,
the widow's son, simply as a skilful artisan,
especially in metals, who had only made all
the mechanical works about the Temple ac-
cording to the will of Solomon . (viii . 3 .) This
apparent color of authority for their opinions
was readily claimed by the Adoniramites, and
hence one of their most prominent ritualists,
Guillemain de St . Victor (Recueil Precieux
de la Magonnerie Adonhiramite, pp . 77, 78),
propounds their theory thus : " We all agree
that the Master's degree is founded on the ar-
chitect of the Temple . Now, Scripture says
very positively, in the 14th verse of the 5th
chapter of the 3d Book of Kings,* that the
person was Adonhiram . Josephus and all the
sacred writers say the same thing, and un-
doubtedly distinguish him from Hiram the
Tyrian, the worker in metals . So that it is
Adonhiram, then, whom we are bound to
honor ."
There were, therefore, in the eighteenth
century, from about the middle to near the
end of it, three schools among the Masonic
ritualists, the members of which were divided
in opinion as to the proper identity of this
Temple Builder :
1 . Those who supposed him to be Hiram,
the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali,
whom the King of Tyre had sent to King Sol-
omon, and whom they designated as Hiram
Abif. This was the original and most popu-
lar school, and which we now suppose to have
been the orthodox one .
2 . Those who believed this Hiram that came
out of Tyre to have been the architect, but
who supposed that, in consequence of his ex-
cellence of character, Solomon had bestowed
upon him the appellation of Adon, " Lord " or
" Master," calling him Adonhiram . As this
theory was wholly unsustained by Scripture
history or previous Masonic tradition, the
school which supported it never became prom-
inent or popular, and soon ceased to{ exist,
although the error on which it is based is
repeated at intervals in the blunder of some
modern French ritualists .
3 . Those who, treating this Hiram, the
widow's son, as a subordinate and unimpor-
tant character, entirely ignored him in their
ritual, and asserted that Adoram, or Adoni-
ram, or Adonhiram, as the name was spelled
by these ritualists, the son of Abda, the col-
lector of tribute and the superintendent of the
levy on Mount Lebanon, was the true archi-
tect of the Temple, and the one to whom all
the legendary incidents of the Third Degree of
Masonry were to be referred . This school, in
consequence of the boldness with which, un-
like the second school, it refused all compro-
mise with the orthodox party and assumed a
wholly independent theory, became, for a
time, a prominent schism in Masonry . Its
disciples bestowed upon the believers in Hiram
Abif the name of Hiramite Masons, adopted
as their own distinctive appellation that of
* In the LXX the two books of Samuel are

ADONHIRAMITE
Adonhiramites, and, having developed the sys-
tem which they practised into a peculiar rite,
called it Adonhiramite Masonry .
Who was the original founder of the rite of
Adonhiramite Masonry, and at what precise
time it was first established are questions
that cannot now be answered with any cer-
tainty . Thory does not attempt to reply to
either in his Nomenclature of Rites, where, if
anything was known on the subject, we would
be most likely to find it. Ragon, it is true, in
his Orthodoxie Magonnique, attributes the rite
to the Baron de Tschoudy . But as he also as-
signs the authorship of the Recueil Precieux
(a work of which we shall directly speak more
fully) to the same person, in which statement
he is known to be mistaken, there can be but
little doubt that he is wrong in the former as
well as in the latter opinion . The Chevalier
de Lussy, better known as the Baron de
Tschoudy, was, it is true a distinguished rit-
ualist . He founded the Order of the Blazing
Star, and took an active part in the operations
of the Council of Emperors of the East and
West ; but we have met with no evidence, out-
side of Ragon's assertion, that he established or
had anything to do with the Adonhiramite Rite .
We are disposed to attribute the develop-
ment into a settled system, if not the actual
creation, of the rite of Adonbiramite Masonry
to Louis Guillemain de St . Victor, who pub-
lished at Paris, in the year 1781, a work en-
titled Recueil Precieux de la Magonnerie Adon-
hiramite t etc .
As this volume contained only the ritual of
the first four degrees, it was followed, in 1785,
by another, which . embraced the higher de-
grees of the rite . No one who peruses these
volumes can fail to perceive that the author
writes like one who has invented, or, at least,
materially modified the rite which is the sub-
ject of his labors . At all events, this work fur-
nishes the only authentic account that we pos-
sess of the organization of the Adonhiramite
system of Masonry .
The rite of Adonhiramite Masonry con-
sisted of twelve degrees, which were as fol-
lows, the names being given in French as well
as in English :
1 . Ap rentice-Apprentif .
2 . Fellow-Craft--Compagnon .
3 . Master Mason-Maitre .
4 . Perfect Master-Maitre Parfait .
5 . Elect of Nine-Premier Elu, ou L'Elu
des Neuf .
6 . Elect of Perignan-Second Elu nomm 6
Elu de Plrignan .
7 . Elect of Fifteen-Troisieme Elu nomme
Elu des Quinze .
8 . Minor Architect-Petit Architecte .
9 . Grand Architect, or Scottish Fellow-
Craft-grand Architecte, ou Compagnon Ecos-
80is .
10 . Scottish Master-Maitre Ecossois .
11 . Knight of the Sword, Knight of , the
East, or of the Eagle-Chevalier de l'Epee
surnommk Chevalier de l'Orient ou de l'Aigle .
12 . Knight of Rose Croix-Chevalier Rose
Croix .
ADONIRAM 	21
This is the entire list of Adonhiramite de-
grees . Thory and Ragon have both erred in
giving a thirteenth degree, namely, the Noach-
ite, or Prussian Knight . They have fallen
into this mistake because Guillemain has in-
serted this degree at the end of his second
volume, but simply as a Masonic curiosit ,
having been translated, as he says, from the
German by M . de Berage. It has no connec-
tion with the preceding series of degrees, and
Guillemain positively declares that the Rose
Croix is the ne plus ultra (2nde Ptie r p . 118),
the summit and termination, of his rite .
Of these twelve degrees, the first ten are oc-
cupied with the transactions of the first Tem-
ple ; the eleventh with matters relating to the
construction of the second Temple- and the
twelfth with that Christian symlolism of
Freemasonry which is peculiar to the Rose
Croix of every rite . All of the degrees have
been borrowed from the Ancient and Accepted
Rite, with slight modifications, which have
seldom improved their character . 	On the
whole, the extinction of the Adonhiramite Rite
can scarcely be considered as a loss to Ma-
sonry .
Before concluding, a few words may be said
on the orthography of the title . As the rite
derives its peculiar characteristic from the fact
that it founds the Third Degree on the assumed
legend that Adoniram, the son of Abda and
the receiver of tribute, was the true architect
of the Temple, and not Hiram, the widow's
son, it should properly have been styled the
Adoniramite Rite, and not the Adonhiramite ;
and so it would probably have been called if
Guillemain, who gave it form, had been ac-
quainted with the Hebrew language, for he
would then have known that the name of his
hero was Adoniram and not Adonhiram . The
term Ado nhi ramite Masons should really have
been applied to the second school described in
this article whose disciples admitted that
Hiram Abih was the architect of the Temple,
but who supposed that Solomon had be-
stowed the prefix Adon u pon him as a mark of
honor, calling him Adonhiram . But Guille-
main having committed the blunder in the
name of his Rite, it continued to be repeated
by his successors, and it would perhaps now be
inconvenient to correct the error . Ragon,
however and a few other recent writers, have
ventured to take this step, and in their works
the system is called Adoniramite Masonry .
Adontram . The first notice that we have of
Adoniram in Scripture is in the 2d Book of
Samuel (xx . 24), where, in the abbreviated
form of his name Adoram, he is said to have
been "over the tribute" in the house of
David, or, as Gesenius translates it, " prefect
over the tribute service, tribute master," that
is to say, in modern phrase, he was the chief
receiver of the taxes . Clarke calls him "Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer ." Seven years after-
ward we find him exercising the same office
in the household of Solomon, for it is said
(1 Kings iv . 6) that "Adoniram the son of Abda
was over the tribute ." And lastly, we hear of
him still occupying the same station in the

22 	ADONIRAM 	ADONIS
household of King Rehoboam, the successor
of Solomon . Forty-seven years after he is
first mentioned in the Book of Samuel, he is
stated under the name of Adoram (1 Kings
xii . 18), or Hadoram (2 Chron . x . 18) to have
been stoned to death, while in the discharge
of his duty, by the people, who were justly
indignant at the oppressions of his master .
Although commentators have been at a loss
to determine whether the tax-receiver under
David, under Solomon and under Rehoboam
was the same person, there seems to be no rea-
son to doubt it ; for, as Kitto says, " It ap-
pears very unlikely that even two persons of
the same name should successively bear the
same office, in an age when no example occurs
of the father's game being given to his son .
We find, also, that not more than forty-seven
years elapse between the first and last men-
tion of the Adoniram who was `over the trib-
ute' ; and as this, although a long term of
service, is not too long for one life, and as the
p erson who held the office in the beginning of
Rehoboam's rei gn had served in it long enough
to make himself odious to the people, it ap-
pears, on the whole, most probable that one
and the same person is intended throughout ."
(Encyc . Bib . Lit .)
Adoniram plays an important r6le in the
Masonic system, especially in the hi g h de-
grees, but the time of action in which he ap -
pears is confined to the period occupied in the
construction of the Temple . The legends
and traditions which connect him with that
edifice derive their support from a single pas-
sage in the 1st Book of Kings (v . 14), where it
is said that Solomon made a levy of thirty
thousand workmen from among the Israelites ;
that he sent these in courses of ten thousand a
month to labor on Mount Lebanon, and that
he placed Adoniram over these as their super-
intendent . 	From this brief statement the
Adoniramite Masons have deduced the theory,
as may be seen in the p receding article, that
Adoniram was the architect of the Temple ;
while the Hiramites, assi gn ing this important
office to Hiram Abif, still believe that Adoni-
ram occupied an important part in the con-
struction of that edifice . He has been called
" the first of the Fellow Crafts" ; is said in one
tradition to have been the brother-in-law of
Hiram Abif, the latter having demanded of
Solomon the hand of Adoniram's sister in
marria g e ; and that the nuptials were honored
by the kings of Israel and Tyre with a public
celebration ; and another tradition, preserved
in the Royal Master's degree, informs us that
he was the one to whom the three Grand Mas-
ters had intended first to communicate that
knowledge which they had reserved as a fitting
reward to be bestowed upon all meritorious
craftsmen at the completion of the Temple .
It is scarcely necessary to say that these and
many other Adoniramic legends, often fanci-
ful, and without any historical authority,
are but the outward clothing of abstruse sym- self and Venus .
bola, some of which have been preserved, and 	This is the story on which the Greek poet
others lost in the lapse of time and the igno-', Bion founded his exquisite idyll entitled the
ranoe and corruptions of modern ritualists . 1 Epitaph of Adonis, the beginning of which has
Adoniram, in Hebrew, 	compounded
of j1K, ADON,Lord, and C1M, HiRaM, altitude,
signifies the Lord of altitude . 	It is a word of
great importance, and frequently used among
the sacred words of the high degrees in all the
Rites .
Adoniramite Masonry . 	See Adonhiram-
ite Masonry .
Adonis, Mysteries of . 	An investigation
of the mysteries of Adonis peculiarly claims the
attention of the Masonic student : first, be-
cause, in their symbolism and in their esoteric
doctrine, the religious object for which they
were instituted, and the mode in which that
object is attained, the y bear a nearer analogi-
cal resemblance to the Institution of Free-
masonry than do any of the other mysteries or
systems of initiation of the ancient world ; and,
secondly, because their chief locality brings
them into a very close connection with the
early history and reputed origin of Free-
masonry . For they were p rincipally cele-
brated at Byblos, a city of Phoenicia, whose
Scriptural name was Gebal, and whose inhab-
itants were the Giblites or Gebalites, who are
referred to in the 1st Book of Kin,§s (chap . v .
18) as being the" stone-squarers' employed
by King Solomon in buildin g the Tem p le . See
Gebal and Giblim . 	Hence there must have evi-
dently been a very intimate connection, or at
least certainly a very frequent intercommuni-
cation, between the workmen of the first Tem-
ple and the inhabitants of Byblos the seat of
the Adonisian mysteries, and the pace whence
the worshipers of that rite were disseminated
over other regions of country .
These historical circumstances invite us to
an examination of the system of initiation
which was practised at Byblos, because we
may find in it something that was probably
suggestive of the s y mbolic system of instruc-
tion which was subse q uently so prominent a
feature in the system of Freemasonry .
Let us first examine the myth on which the
Adonisiac initiation was founded . The myth-
ological legend of Adonis is, that he was the
son of Myrrha and Cinyras, King of Cyprus .
Adonis was possessed of such surpassing
beauty, that Venus became enamored of him,
and adopted him as her favorite . Subse-
quently Adonis, who was a great hunter, died
from a wound inflicted by a wild boar on
Mount Lebanon . Venus flew to the succor of
her favorite, but she came too late . Adonis
was dead . On his descent to the infernal
regions, Proserpine became, like Venus, so at-
tracted by his beauty, that notwithstand-
ing the entreaties of the goddess of love, she
refused to restore him to earth . At length
the prayers of the desponding Venus were
listened to with favor by Jupiter, who recon-
ciled the dispute between the two goddesses,
and by whose decree Proserpine was com-
pelled to consent that Adonis should spend
six months of each year alternately with her-

ADONIS
been thus rather inefficiently " cone into Eng-
lish " ;
"I and the Loves Adonis dead deplore :
The beautiful Adonis is indeed
Departed, parted from us . Sleep no more
In purple, Cypris! but in watchet weed,
All wretched! beat thy breast and all aread-
'Adonis is no more .' The Loves and I
Lament him . 'Ohl her grief to see him bleed .
Smitten by white tooth on whiter thigh,
Out-breathing life's faint sigh upon the moun-
tain high . ,, _
It is evident that Bion referred the contest
of Venus and Proserpine for Adonis to a period
subsequent to his death, from the concluding
lines, in which he says : " The Muses, too,
lament the son of Cinyras, and invoke him in
their song ; but he does not heed them, not be-
cause he does not wish, but because Proser-
pine will not release him ." This was, indeed,
the favorite form of the myth, and on it was
framed the symbolism of the ancient mystery .
But there are other Grecian mythologues
that relate the tale of Adonis differently . Ac-
cording to these, he was the product of the
incestuous connection of Cinyras and his
daughter Myrrha . Cinyras subsequently, on
discovering the crime of his daughter, pursued
her with a drawn sword, intending to kill her .
Myrrha entreated the gods to make her in-
visible, and they changed her into a myrrh
tree . 	Ten months after the myrrh tree
opened, and the young Adonis was born .
This is the form of the myth that has been
adopted by Ovid, who g~ves it with all its moral
horrors in the tenth book (298-559) of his
Metamorphoses .
Venus, who- was delighted with the extraor-
dinary beauty of the boy, put him in a coffer,
unknown to all the gods, and gave him to Pros-
erpine to keep and to nurture in the under
world . But Proserpine had no sooner beheld
him than she became enamored of him and
refused when Venus applied for him, to sur-
render Lim to her rival . The subject was then
referred to Jupiter, who decreed that Adonis
should have one-third of the year to himself,
should be another third with Venus, and the
remainder of the time with Proserpina . Adonis
gave his own portion to Venus, and lived hap-
pily with her till, having offended Diana, 1
was killed by a wild boar .
The mythographer Pharnutus gives a still
different s tory , and says that Adonis was the
grandson of Cmyras, and fled with his father,
Amnion, into Egypt, whose people he civilized,
taught them agriculture, and enacted many
wise laws for their government . He subse-
quently passed over into Syria, and was
woundd in the thigh by a wild boar while
hunting on Mount Lebanon . His wife, Isis,
or Astarte, and the people of Phoenicia and
Egypt, supposing that the wound was mortal,
profoundly deplored his death . But he after-
ward recovered and their grief was replaced
by transports of joy . All the myths, it will be
seen, agree in his actual or supposed death by
violence, in the grief for his loss, in his recov-
ery or restoration to life, and in the conse-
ADOPTION 	28
quent joy thereon . And on these facts are
founded the Adonisian mysteries which were
established in his honor .
While, therefore, we may grant the possi-
bility that there was originally some connec-
tion between the Sabean worship of the sun
and the celebration of the Adonisian festival,
we cannot forget that these mysteries, in com-
mon with all the other sacred initiations of the
ancient world, had been originally established
to promulgate among the initiates the once
hidden doctrine of a future life . The myth of
Adonis in Syria, like that of Osiris in Egypt, of
Atys in Samothrace, or of Dionysus in Greece,
presented, symbolically, the two great ideas
of decay and restoration : sometimes figured
as darkness and light, sometimes as winter and
summer, sometimes as death and life, but al-
ways maintaining, no matter what was the
framework of the allegory, the inseparable
ideas of something that was lost and after-
ward recovered, as its interpretation, and so
teaching, as does Freemasonry at this day, by
a similar system of allegorizing, that after the
death of the body comes the eternal life of the
soul. The inquiring Freemason will thus read-
ily see the analogy in the symbolism that
exists between Adonis in the mysteries of the
Gebalites at Byblos and Hiram the Builder in
his own institution .
Adoption, Masonic . 	The adoption by
the Lodge of the child of a Mason is practised,
with peculiar ceremonies, in some of the
French and German Lodges, and has been re-
cently introduced, but not with the general
approbation of the Craft into one or two
Lodges of this country . Clavel, in his His-
toire 	Pittoresque 	de la Franc-Maconnerie
(p . 	3d ed .), gives the following account of
the ceremonies of adoption .
" It is a custom, in many Lodges, when the
wife of a Mason is near the period of her con-
finement for the Hospitaller, if he is a physi-
cian, an~ if not, f or some other brother who is,
to visit her, inquire after her health, in the
name of the Lodge, and to offer her his pro-
fessional services, and even pecuniary id if
he thinks she needs it . Nine days ter the
birth of her child, the Master and Wardens
call upon her to congratulate her on the happy
event . If the infant is a boy, a special com-
munication of the Lodge is convened for the
purpose of proceeding to its adoption . The
hall is decorated with flowers and foliage, and
censers are prepared for burning incense .
Before the commencement of labor, the child
and its nurse are introduced into an anteroom .
The Lodge is then opened, and the Wardens,
who are to act as godfathers, repair to the in-
fant at the head of a deputation of five breth-
ren . The chief of the deputation, then ad-
dressing the nurse, exhorts her not only to
watch over the health of the child that has
been intrusted to her care, but also to culti-
vate his youthful intellect, and to instruct him
with truthful and sensible conversation . The
child is then taken from the nurse, placed by
its father upon a cushion, and carried by the
deputation into the Lodge room . The pro-

24 	ADOPTIVE
cession advances beneath an arch of foliage to
the pedestal of the east, where it stops .
" ` Whom bring you here, my brethren? '
says the Master to the godfathers .
" ` The son of one of our brethren whom the
Lodge is desirous of adopting,' is the reply of
the Senior Warden .
" ` What are his names, and what Masonic
name will you give him? '
" The Warden replies, adding to the bap-
tismal and surname of the child a charac-
teristic name, such as Truth, Devotion, Be-
nevolence, or some other of a similar nature .
" The Master then descends from his seat,
approaches the louveteau or lewis (for such is
the appellation given to the son of a Mason),
and extending his hands over its head, offers
up a prayer that the child may render itself
worthy of the love and care which the Lodge
intends to bestow upon it . 	He then casts
incense into the censers, and pronounces the
Apprentice's obligation, which the godfathers
repeat of ter him in the name of the louveteau .
Afterwards he puts a white apron on the infant,
roclaiming it to be the adopted child of the
ge, and causes this proclamation to be
received with the honors .
"As soon as this ceremony has been per-
formed, the Master returns to his seat, and
having caused the Wardens with the child to
be placed in front of the north column, he re-
counts to the former the duties which they
have assumed as godfathers . After the Ward-
ens have made a suitable response the depu-
tation which had brought the chid into the
Lodge room is again formed, carries it out,
and restores it to its nurse in the anteroom .
" The adoption of a louveteau binds all the
members of the Lodge to watch over his edu-
cation, and subsequently to aid him, if it be
necessary, in establishing himself in life . 	A
circumstantial account of the ceremony is
drawn up, which having been signed by all the
members is delivered to the father of the child .
This document serves as a dispensation, which
relieves him from the necessity of passing
through the ordinary preliminary examina-
tions when, at the proper age, he is desirous of
participating in the labors of Masonry . He is
then only required to renew his obligations ."
In the United States, the ceremony has
been recently practised by a few Lodges, the
earliest instance being that of Foyer Macon-
nique Lodge of New Orleans, in 1859 . 	The
Supreme Council for the Southern Jurisdic-
tion Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, has
published the ritual of Masonic Adoption for
the use of the members of that rite . 	This
ritual under the title of " Offices of Masonic
Baptism, Reception of a Louveteau and Adop-
tion," is a very beautiful one, and is the
composition of Brother Albert Pike . 	It is
scarcely necessary to say that the word Bap-
tism there used has not the slightest reference
to the Christian sacrament of the same name .
(See Lewis .)
Adoptive 	Masonry . 	An 	organization
which bears a very imperfect resemblance to
Freemasonry in its forms and ceremonies, and
ADOPTIVE
which was established in France for the initia-
tion of females, has been called by the French
" Magonnerie d'Adoption, " or Adoptive Ma-
sonry, and the societies in which the initiations
take place have received the name of "Loges
d'Adoption," or Adoptive Lodges . 	This ap-
pellation is derived from the fact that every
female or Adoptive Lodge is obliged, by the
regulations of the association to be, as it were,
adopted by, and thus placed under the guar-
dianship of, some regular Lodge of . Freema-
sons .
As to the exact date which we are to as-
sign for the first introduction of this system of
female Masonry, there have been several theo-
ries, some of which, undoubtedly, are wholly
untenable, since they have been founded, as
Masonic historical theories too often are, on an
unwarrantable mixture of facts and fictions-
of positive statements and problematic con-
jectures . 	Mons . J . S . Boubee, a distinguished
French Mason, in his Etudes Maconniques,
places the origin of Adoptive Masonry in the
17th century, and ascribes its authorship to
Queen Henrietta Maria, the widow of Charles
I . of England ; and he states that on her re-
turn to France, after the execution of her hus-
band, she took pleasure in recounting the
secret efforts made by the Freemasons of
England to restore her family to their position
and to establish her son on the throne of his
ancestors . 	This, it will be recollected, was
once a prevalent theory, now exploded, of the
origin of Freemasonry-that it was established
by the Cavaliers, as a secret political organiza-
tion, in the times of the English civil war be-
tween the king and the Parliament, and as an
engine for the support of the former . M . Bou-
bee adds that the queen made known to the
ladies of 'her court, in her exile, the words and
signs employed by her Masonic friends in
England as their modes of recognition, and by
this means instructed them in some of the
mysteries of the Institution, of which, he says,
she had been made the protectress after the
death of the king . This theory is so full of
absurdity, and its statements so flatly con-
tradicted by well-known historical facts, that
we may at once reject it as wholly apocryphal .
Others have claimed Russia as the birth-
place of Adoptive Masonry ; but in assigning
that country and the year 1712 as the place
and time of its origin, they have undoubtedly
confounded it with the chivalric Order of
Saint Catharine, which was instituted by the
Czar, Peter the Great, in honor of the Czarina
Catharine, and which, although at first it
consisted of persons 	of both sexes, was
subsequently confined exclusively to females .
But the Order of Saint Catharine was in no
manner connected with that of Freemasonry .
It was simply a Russian order of female
knighthood .
The truth seems to be that the regular
Lodges of Adoption owed their existence to
those secret associations of men and women
which sprang up in France before the middle
of the 18th century, and which attempted
in all of their 	organization, except 	the

ADOPTIVE 	ADOPTIVE 	25
admission of female members, to imitate the
Institution of Freemasonry . Clavel, who, in
his Histoire Pittoresque de la Franc-Magon-
nerie, an interesting but not always a trust-
worthy work, adopts this theory, says that
female Masonry was instituted about the year
1730) p . iii ., 3d ed .) ; that it made its first a
pearance in France, and that it was evident
a product of the French mind . No one will be
disposed to doubt the truth of this last senti-
ment . The proverbial gallantry of the French
Masons was most ready and willing to extend
to women some of the blessings of that Insti-
tution, from which the churlishness, as they
would call it, of their Anglo-Saxon brethren
had excluded them .
But the Masonry of Adoption did not at
once and in its very beginning assume that pe-
culiarly imitative form of Freemasonry which
it subsequently presented, nor was it recog-
nized as having any connection with our own
Order until more than thirty years after its
first establishment . Its progress was slow
and gradual . In the course of this progress it
affected various names and rituals, many of
which have not been handed down to us . It
was evidently convivial and gallant in its na-
ture, and at first seems to have been only an
imitation of Freemasonry, inasmuch as that
it was a secret society, having a form of initia-
tion and modes of recognition . A specimen of
one or two of these secret female associations
may not be uninteresting .
One of the earliest of these societies was
that which was established in the year 1743,
at Paris, under the name of the " Ordee des
Felicitaires,"which we might very appropri-
ately translate as the " Order of Happy
Folks ." The vocabulary and all the em-
blems of the order were nautical . The sisters
made symbolically a voyage from the island of
Felicity, in ships navigated by the brethren .
There were four degrees, namely, those of
Cabin-boy, Captain, Commodore, and Vice-
Admiral, and the Grand Master, or presiding
officer, was called the Admiral . Out of this
society there sprang in 1745 another, which
was called the " Knights and Ladies of the
Anchor," which is said to have been somewhat
more refined in its character, although for the
most part it preserved the same formulary of
reception .
Two years afterward, in 1747, the Cheva-
lier Beauchaine, a very zealous Masonic ad-
venturer, and the Master for life of a Parisian
Lodge, instituted an androgynous system
under the name of the " Ordre des Fendeurs,"
or the "Order of Wood-Cutters," whose cere-
monies were borrowed from those of the well-
known political society of the Carbonari . All
parts of the ritual had a reference to the sylvan
vocation of wood-cutting, just as that of the
Carbonari referred to coal-burning . The
place of meeting was called a wood-yard, and
was supposed to be situated in a forest ; the
presiding officer was styled PPre Maitre,
which might be idiomatically interpreted as
rowed from the Carbonari . The reunions of
the " Wood-Cutters " enjoyed the prestige of
the highest fashion in Paris ; and the society
became so popular that ladies and gentlemen
of the highest distinction in France united
with it, and membership was considered an
honor which no rank, however exalted, need
disdain . It was consequently succeeded by
the institution of many other and similar an-
drogynous societies, the very names of which it
would be tedious to enumerate . (Clavel, pp .
111, 112 .)
Out of all these societies-which resembled
Freemasonry only in their secrecy, their be-
nevolence, and a sort of rude imitation of a
symbolic ceremonial-at last arose the true
Lodges of Adoption, which so far claimed a
connection with and a dependence on Masonry
as that Freemasons alone were admitted
among their male members-a regulation
which did not prevail in the earlier organiza-
tions .
It was about the middle of the 18th cen-
tury that the Lodges of Adoption began to
attract attention in France, whence they
speedily spread into other countries of Europe
-into Germany, Poland, and even Russia ;
England alone, always conservative to a fault,
steadily refusing to take any cognizance of
them . The Masons, says Clavel (p . 112),
embraced them with enthusiasm as a prac-
ticable means of giving to their wives and
daughters some share of the pleasures which
they themselves enjoyed in their mystical as-
semblies . And this, at least, may be said of
them, that they practised with commendable
fidelity and diligence the greatest of the
Masonic virtues, and that the banquets and
balls which always formed an important part
of their ceremonial were distinguished by
numerous acts of charity .
The first of these Lodges of which we have
any notice was that established in Paris, in
the year 1760, by the Count de Bernouville .
Another was instituted at Nimeguen, in Hol-
land, in 1774, over which the Prince of Wal-
deck and the Princess of Orange presided . In
1775, the Lodge of Saint Antoine, at Paris,
organized a dependent Lodge of Adoption of
which the Duchess of Bourbon was installed as
Grand Mistress and the Duke of Chartres,
then Grand Master of French Masonry, con-
ducted the business . In 1777, there was an
Adoptive Lodge of La Candeur, over which the
Duchess of Bourbon presided, assisted by such
noble ladies as the Duchess of Chartres, the
Princess Lamballe, and the Marchioness de
Genlis ; and we -hear of another *governed by
Madame Helvetius, the wife of the illustrious
philosopher ; so that it will be perceived that
fashion, wealth, and literature combined to
give splendor and influence to this new order
of female Masonry .
At first the Grand Orient of France appears
to have been unfavorably disposed to these
pseudo-Masonic and androgynous associa-
tions but at length they became so numerous
Goodman Master ; and the members were and so popular that a persistence in opposite
designated as cousins, a practise evidently bor- I tion would have evidently been impolitic, if it

26 	ADOPTIVE
did not actually threaten to be fatal to the
interests and permanence of the Masonic
Institution . 	The Grand Orient, therefore,
yielded its objections, and resolved to avail
itself of that which it could not suppress . Ac-
cordingly, on the 10th of June, 1774, it issued
an edict by which it assumed the protection
and control of the Lodges of Adoption . Rules
and regulations were provided for their gov-
ernment, among which were two : first, that no
males except regular Freemasons should be
permitted to attend them ; and, secondly,
that each Lodge should be placed under the
charge and held under the sanction of some
regularly constituted Lodge of Masons, whose
Master, or, in his absence, his deputy, should
be the presiding officer, assisted by a female
President or Mistress ; and such has since been
the organization of all Lodges of Adoption .
A Lodge of Adoption, under the regulations
established in 1774, consists of the following
officers : a Grand Master, a Grand Mistress,
an Orator (dressed as a Capuchin), an In-
spector, an Inspectress, a Male and Female
Guardian, a Mistress of Ceremonies . All of
these officers wear a blue watered ribbon over
the shoulder, to which is suspended a golden
trowel, and all the brothers and sisters have
aprons and white gloves .
The Rite of Adoption consists of four de-
grees, whose names in French and English are
as follows :
1 . Apprentice, or Female Apprentice .
2 . Compagnone, or Craftswoman .
3 . Mattresse, or Mistress .
4 . Parfaite Maconne, or Perfect Mason .
It will be seen that the degrees of Adoption,
in their names and their apparent reference to
the gradations of employment in an operative
art, are assimilated to those of legitimate Free-
masonry ; but it is in those respects only that
the resemblance holds good . 	In the details
of the ritual there is a vast difference between
the two Institutions .
There was a fifth degree added in 1817-by
some modern writers called " Female elect "
-Sublime Dame Ecossaise, or Sovereign Illus-
trious Dame Ecossaise ; but it seems to be a
recent and not generally adopted innovation .
At all events, it constituted no part of the
ongm al Rite of Adoption .
The first or Female Apprentice's degree, is
simplp preliminary in its character, and is
intended to prepare the candidate for the more
important lessons which she is to receive in
the succeeding degrees . 	She is presented
with an apron and a pair of white kid gloves .
The apron is given with the following charge,
in which as in all the other ceremonies of the
Order, 	le Masonic system of teaching by
symbolism is followed :
" Permit me to decorate you with this
apron ; kings, princes, and the most illustri-
ous princesses have esteemed, and will ever
esteem it an honor to wear it, as being the sym-
bol of virtue ."
On receiving the gloves, the candidate is
thus addressed :
" The color of these gloves will admonish
ADOPTIVE
you that candor and truth are virtues insep-
arable from the character of a true Mason .
Take your place among us, and be pleased to
listen to the instructions which we are about
to communicate to you ."
The following charge is then addressed to the
members by the Orator :
"MY DEAR SISTERS :-Nothing is better calcu-
lated to assure you of the high esteem our society
entertains for you, than your admission as a mem-
ber . The common herd, always unmannerly,
full of the most ridiculous prejudices, has dared
to spripkle on us the black poison of calumny-
but what judgment could it form when deprived
of the light of truth, and unable to feel all the
blessings which result from its perfect knowledge?
" You alone, my dear sisters, having been re-
pulsed from our meetings, would have the right
to think us unjust ; but with what satisfaction do
you learn to-day that Masonry is the school of
propriety and of virtue, and that by its laws we
restrain the weaknesses that degrade an honour-
able man, in order to return to your side more
worthy of your confidence and of your sincerity .
However whatever pleasure these sentiments
have enabled us to taste, we have not been able
to fill the void that your absence left in our midst ;
and I confess, to your glory, that it was time to
invite into our societies some sisters who, while
rendering them more respectable will ever make
of them pleasures and delights . We call our
Lodges Temples of Virtue, because we endeavor
to practise it . 	The mysteries which we cele-
brate therein are the grand art of conquering the
passions and the oath that we take to reveal noth-
ing is to prevent self-love and pride from entering
at all into the good which we ought to do .
"The beloved name of Adoption tells you suf-
ficiently that we choose you to share the happi-
ness that we enjoy, in cultivating honour and
charity ; it is only after a careful examination
that we have wished to share it with you, now
that you know it we are convinced that the light
of wisdom will illumine all the actions of your
life, and that you will never forget that the more
valuable things are the greater is the need to pre-
serve them ; it is the principle of silence that we
observe, it should be inviolable . 	May the God
of the Universe who hears us vouchsafe to give
us strength to render it so ."
It will be seen that throughout this char ~
there runs a vein of gallantry, which gives the
true secret of the motives which led to the or-
ganization of the society, and which, however
appropriate to a Lodge of Adoption, would
scarcely be in place in a Lodge of the legiti-
mate Order .
In the second degree, or that of Compa-
gnone, or "Craftswoman," corresponding to
our Fellow-Craft, the Lodge is made the sym-
bol of the Garden of Eden, and the candidate
passes through a mimic representation of the
temptation of Eve, the fatal effects of which,
culminating in the deluge and the destruction
of the human race, are impressed upon her in
the lecture or catechism .
Here we have a scenic representation of the
circumstances connected with that event, as
recorded in Genesis . 	The candidate plays the
role of our common mother . 	In the center of
the Lodge, which represents the garden, is
placed the tree of life, from which ruddy apples
are suspended . 	The serpent, made with the-

ADOPTIVE
atrical skill to represent a living reptile, em-
braces in its coils the trunk . 	An apple plucked
from the tree is presented to the recipient, who
is persuaded to eat it by the promise that thus
alone can she prepare herself for receiving a
knowledge of the sublime mysteries of Free-
masonry . 	She receives the fruit from the
tempter, but no sooner has she attempted to
bite it, than she is startled by the sound of
thunder ; a curtain which has separated her
from the members of the Lodge is suddenly
withdrawn, and she is detected in the commis-
sion of the act of disobedience . She is sharply
reprimanded by the Orator, who conducts her
before the Grand Master . 	This dignitary
reproaches her with her fault, but finally, with
the consent of the brethren and sisters pres-
ent, he pardons her in the merciful spirit of
the Institution, on the condition that she will
take avow to extend hereafter the same clem-
ency to the faults of others .
All of this is allegorical and very pretty, and
it cannot be denied that on the sensitive imag-
inations of females such ceremonies must pro-
duce a manifest impression . But it is need-
less to say that it is nothing like Masonry .
There is less ceremony, but more symbol-
ism, in the third degree, or that of " Mistress ."
Here are introduced, as parts of the ceremony,
the tower of Babel and the theological ladder
of Jacob . 	Its rounds, however, differ from
those peculiar to true Masonry, and are said
to equal the virtues in number . 	The lecture
,or catechism is very long, and contains some
very good points in its explanations of the
symbols of the degree . 	Thus, the tower of
Babel is said to signify the pride of man-its
base, his folly-the stones of which it was
composed, his passions-the cement which
united them, the poison of discord-and its
spiral form, the devious and crooked ways of
the human heart . In this manner there is an
imitation, not of the letter and substance of
legitimate Freemasonry, for nothing can in
these respects be more dissimilar, but of that
mode of teaching by symbols and allegories
which is its peculiar characteristic .
The fourth degree, or that of " Perfect Mis-
tress," corresponds to no degree in legitimate
Masonry . It is simply the summit of the Rite
of Adoption, and hence is also called the " De-
gree of Perfection ." Although the Lodge, in
this degree, is supposed to represent the Mo-
saic tabernacle in the wilderness, yet the cere-
monies do not have the same reference . In one
of them, however, the liberation, by the can-
didate, of a bird from the vase in which it had
been confined is said to symbolize the libera-
tion of man from the dominion of his pas-
sions ; and thus a far-fetched reference is made
to the liberation of the Jews from Egyptian
bondage . 	On the whole, the ceremonies are
very disconnected, but the lecture or cate-
chism contains some excellent lessons . 	Espe-
cially does it furnish us with the official defini-
tion of Adoptive Masonry, which is in these
words :
" It is a virtuous amusement by which we
recall a part of the mysteries of our religion ;
ADOPTIVE 	27
and the better to reconcile humanity with the
knowledge of its Creator, after we have incul-
cated the duties of virtue, we deliver ourselves
up to the sentiments of a pure and delightful
friendship by enjoying in our Lodges the
pleasures of society-pleasures which among
us are always founded on reason, honor, and
innocence ."
Apt and appropriate description of an asso-
ciation, secret or otherwise of agreeable and
virtuous well-bred men an~ women, but hav-
ing not the slightest application to the design
or form of true Freemasonry .
Guillemain de St . Victor, the author of
Manuel des Franches-Maronnes, ou La Vraie
Magonnerie d'Adoption (which forms the 3d
part of the Recueil Precieux), who has given
the best ritual of the Rite and from whom the
preceding account has been taken, thus briefly
sums up the objects of the Institution :
The first degree contains only, as it ought,
moral ideas of Masonry ; the second is the in-
itiation into the first mysteries, commencing
with the sin of Adam, and concluding with the
Ark of Noah as the first favor which God
granted to men ; the third and fourth are
merely a series of types and figures drawn
from the Holy Scriptures, by which we explain
to the candidate the virtues which she ought to
practise ." (P . 13, ed . 1785 .)
The fourth degree, being the summit of the
Rite of Adoption, is furnished with a "table-
lodge," or the ceremony of a banquet, which
immediately succeeds the closing of the Lodge
and 'which, of course, adds much to the social
pleasure and nothing to the instructive char-
acter of the Rite . 	Here, also, there is a con-
tinued imitation of the ceremonies of the
Masonic Institution as they are practised in
France, where the ceremoniously conducted
banquet, at which Masons only are present, is
always an accompaniment of the Master's
Lodge . Thus, as in the banquets of the regular
Lodges of the French Rite, the members
always use a symbolical language by which
they designate the various implements of the
table and the different articles of food and
drink, 	calling, for 	instance, the knives
" swords," the forks " pickaxes," the dishes
"materials " and bread a "rough ashlar" ;
so, in imitation of this custom, the Rite of
Adoption has established in its banquets a
technical vocabulary, to be used only at the
table . Thus the Lodge room is called " Eden,"
the doors " barriers," the minutes a " ladder,"
a wineglass is styled a " lamp," and its con-
tents " oil"-water being " white oil " and
wine " red oil ." To fill your glass is " to trim
your lamp," to drink is " to extinguish your
lamp," with many other eccentric expres-
sions . f
Much taste, and in some instances, mag-
nificence, are displayed in the decorations of
the Lodge rooms of the Adoptive Rite . The
apartment is separated by curtains into dif-
ferent divisions, and contains ornaments and
decorations which of course vary in the differ-
* Clavel, Hist . Pitt ., p . 30 . 	t Clavel, p . 34 .

28 	ADOPTIVE
ent degrees . The orthodox Masonic idea that
the Lodge is a symbol of the world is here re-
tained, and the four sides of the hall are said
to represent the four continents-the entrance
being called " Europe," the right side " Af-
rica," the left "America," and the extremity,
in which the Grand Master and Grand Mis-
tress are seated, " Asia ." There are statues
representing Wisdom, Prudence, Strength,
Temperance, Honor, Charity, Justice, and
Truth . 	The members are seated along the
sides in two rows, the ladies occupying the
front one, and the whole is rendered as beau-
tiful and attractive as the taste can make it .*
The Lodges of Adoption flourished greatly
in France after their recognition by the Grand
Orient . The Duchess of Bourbon, who was the
first that received the title of Grand Mistress,
was installed with great pomp and splendor,
in May, 1775, in the Lodge of St . Antoine, in
Paris . 	She presided over the Adoptive Lodge
Le Candeur until 1780, when it was dissolved .
Attached to the celebrated Lodge of the Nine
Sisters, which had so many distinguished men
of letters among its members, was a Lodge of
Adoption bearing the same name, which in
1778 held a meeting at the residence of Ma-
dame Helvetius in honor of Benjamin Franklin,
then our ambassador at the . French court .
During the reign of terror of the French Revo-
lution, Lodges of Adoption, like everything
that was gentle or humane, almost entirely
disappeared . But with the accession of a
regular government they were resuscitated,
and the Empress Josephine presided at the
meeting of one at Strasburg in the year 1805 .
They continued to flourish under the imperial
dynasty, and although less popular, or less
fashionable, under the Restoration, they subse-
quently recovered their popularity, and are
still in existence in France .
As interesting appendages to this article, it
may not be improper to insert two accounts,
one, of the installation of Madame Cesar
Moreau, as Grand Mistress of Adoptive Ma-
sonry, in the Lodge connected with the regu-
lar Lodge La Jerusalem des Vallees Egyp-
tiennes, on the 8th of July, 1854, and the other,
of the reception of the celebrated Lady Mor-
gan, in 1819, in the Lodge La Belle et Bonne, as
described by her in her Diary .
The account of the installation of Madame
Moreau, which is abridged from the Franc-
Mason, a Parisian periodical, is as follows :
The fete was most interesting and admira-
bly arranged. After the introduction in due
form of a number of brethren and sisters the
Grand Mistress elect was announced, and she
entered, preceded by the five lights of the
Lodge and escorted by the Inspectress, De-
positress, Oratrix, and Mistress of Ceremo-
nies . Mons . J . S . Boubee, the Master of the
Lodge La Jerusalem des Vallees Egyptiennes,
conducted her to the altar, where, having in-
stalled her into office and handed her a mallet
as the symbol of authority, he addressed her
in a copy of verses, whose merit will hardly
* Reeueil Precieux, p . 24 .
ADOPTIVE
claim for them a repetition . To this she made
a suitable reply, and the Lodge then proceeded
to the reception of a young lady, a part of the
ceremony of which is thus described :
" Of the various trials of virtue and forti-
tude to which she was subjected, there was one
which made a deep impression, not only on
the fair recipient, but on the whole assembled
company . Four boxes were placed, one before
each of the male officers ; the candidate was
told to open them, which she did, and from the
first and second drew faded flowers, and soiled
ribbons and laces, which being placed in an
open vessel were instantly consumed by fire,
as an emblem of the brief duration of such
objects ; from the third she drew an apron, a
blue silk scarf, and a pair of gloves ; and from
the fourth a basket containing the working
tools in silver gilt . She was then conducted to
the altar, where, on opening a fifth box, sev-
eral birds which had been confined in it es-
caped, which was intended to teach her that
liberty is a condition to which all men are
entitled, and of which no one can be deprived
without injustice . After having taken the
vow, she was instructed in the modes of rec-
ognition, and having been clothed with the
apron, scarf, and gloves, and presented with
the implements of the Order, she received
from the Grand Mistress an esoteric explana-
tion of all these emblems and ceremonies .
Addresses were subsequently delivered by the
Orator and Oratrix, an ode was sung, the poor
or alms box was handed round, and the labors
of the Lodge were then closed ."
Madame Moreau lived only six months to
enjoy the honors of presiding officer of the
Adoptive Rite, for she died of a pulmonary
affection at an early age, on the 11th of the
succeeding January .
The Lodge of Adoption in which Lady
Morgan received the degrees at Paris, in the
year 1819, was called La Belle et Bonne . This
was the pet name which long before had been
bestowed by Voltaire on his favorite, the Mar-
chioness de Villette,t under whose presidency
and at whose residence in the Faubourg St .
Germaine the Lodge was held, and hence the
name with which all France, or at least all
Paris, was familiarly acquainted as the popu-
lar designation of Madame de Villette .
Lady Morgan, in her description of the
Masonic fete, says that when she arrived at
the Hotel la Villette, where the Lodge was
held, she found a large concourse of distin-
guished persons ready to take part in the cere-
monies. Among these were Prince Paul of
Wurtemberg the Count de Cases, elsewhere
distinguished in Masonry, the celebrated
Denon, the Bishop of Jerusalem, and the illus-
trious actor Talma . The business of the even-
ing commenced with an installation of the
officers of a sister Lodge, after which the
candidates were admitted . Lady Morgan de-
scribes the arrangements as presenting when
the doors were opened, a spectacle of great
magnificence . A profusion of crimson and
t Clavel, p . 114 .

ADOPTIVE
gold, marble busts, a decorated throne and
altar, an abundance of flowers, and incense of
the finest odor which filled the air, gave to the
whole a most dramatic and scenic effect .
Music of the grandest character mingled its
harmony with the mysteries of initiation,
which lasted for two hours, and when the
Lodge was closed there was an adjournment
to the hall of refreshment, where the ball was
opened by the Grand Mistress with Prince
Paul of Wurtemberg . Lady Morgan, upon
whose mind the ceremony appears to have
made an impression, makes one remark worthy
of consideration : " That so many women,"
she says, " young and beautiful and worldly,
should never have revealed the secret, is among
the miracles which the much distrusted sex
are capable of working ." In fidelity to the
vow of secrecy, the female Masons of the
Adoptive Rite have proved themselves fully
equal to their brethren of the legitimate Order .
Notwithstanding that Adoptive Masonry
has found an advocate in no less distinguished
a writer than Chemin Dupontes, who, in the
Encyclopedie Magonnique,* calls it " a luxury
in Masonry, and a pleasant relaxation which
cannot do any harm to the true mysteries
which are practised by men alone," it has
been very generally condemned by the most
celebrated French, German, English, and
American Masons .
Gaedicke, in the Freimaurer Lexicon, speaks
slightingly of it as established on insufficient
grounds, and expresses his gratification that
the system no longer exists in Germany .
Thory, in his History of the Foundation of
the Grand Orient (p . 361), says that the intro-
duction of Adoptive Lodges was a consequence
of the relaxation of Masonic discipline ; and
he asserts that the permitting of women to
share in mysteries which should exclusively
belong to men is not in accordance with the
essential principles of the Masonic Order .
The Abbd Robin, the author of an able work
entitled Recherches sur les Initiations An-
cients et Modernes, maintains (p . 15) that
the custom of admitting women into Ma-
sonic assemblies will perhaps be, at some
future period, the cause of the decline of
Masonry in France . The prediction is not,
however, likely to come to pass ; for while
legitimate Masonry has never been more pop-
ular or prosperous in France than it is at this
day, it is the Lodges of Adoption that appear
to have declined .
Other writers in other countries have spoken
in similar terms, so that it is beyond a doubt
that the general sentiment of the Fraternity is
against this system of female Masonry .
Leaning is, however, more qualified in his
condemnation, and says in his Encyclopadie
der Freimaurerei, that wile leaving it unde-
cided whether it is prudent to hold assemblies
of women with ceremonies which are called
Masonic, yet it is not to be denied that in
these female Lodges a large amount of charity
has been done .
* Published in Paris in 4 vole ., 1819-25 .
ADOPTIVE 	29
Adoptive Masonry has its literature, al-
though neither dxtensive nor important, as it
comprises only books of songs, addresses, and
rituals . Of the latter the most valuable are :
1 . La Magonnerie des Femmes, published in
1775, and containing only the first three de-
grees, for such was the system when recog-
nized by the Grand Orient of France in that
year . 	2 . La Vraie Magonnerie d'Adoption,
printed in 1787 . This work, which is by Guille-
main de St . Victor, is perhaps the best that
has been published on the subject of the Adop-
tive Rite, and is the first that introduces the
Fourth Degree,of which Guillemainissupposed
to have been the inventor, since all previous
rituals include only the three degrees . 3 . Ma-
connerie d'Adoption pour les Femmes, con-
tained in the second part of E . J . Chappron's
Necessaire Maconnique, and printed at Paris
in 1817 . This is valuable because it is the first
ritual that contains the Fifth Degree . 	4 . La
Franc-Maconnerie des Femmes . 	This work,
which is by Charles Monselet, is of no value
as a ritual, being simply a tale founded on
circumstances connected with Adoptive Ma-
sonry .
In Italy, the Carbonari, or 	" Wood-
Burners," a secret political society, imitated
the Freemasons of France in instituting an
Adoptive Rite, attached to their own associa-
tion . Hence, an Adoptive Lodge was founded
at Naples in the beginning of this century,
over which presided that friend of Masonry,
Queen Caroline, the wife of Ferdinand II .
The members were styled Giardiniere, or Fe-
male Gardeners ; and they called each other
Cugine, or Female Cousins, in imitation of the
Carbonari, who were recognized as Buoni
Cugini, or Good Cousins . The Lodges of
Giardiniere flourished as long as the Grand
Lodge of Carbonari existed at Naples .
Adoptive 	Masonry, 	American . 	The
Rite of Adoption as practised on the continent
of Europe, and especially in France, has never
been introduced into America . The system
does not accord with the manners or habits of
the people, and undoubtedly never would be-
come popular . But Rob . Morris attempted, in
1855, to introduce an imitation of it, which he
had invented, under the name of the " Amer-
ican Adoptive Rite ." It consisted of a cere-
mony of initiation, which was intended as a
preliminary trial of the candidate, and of five
degrees, named as follows : 1 . Jephthah's
Daughter, or the daughter's degree . 	2 . Ruth,
or the widow's degree . 	3 . Esther or the wife's
degree . 4 . Martha, or the sisters degree . 5 .
Electa, or the Christian Martyr's degree . The
whole assemblage of the five degrees was called
the Eastern Star .
The objects of this Rite, as expressed by
the framer, were " to associate in one common
bond the worthy wives, widows, daughters,
and sisters of Freemasons, so as to make their
adoptive privileges available for all the pur-
poses contemplated in Masonry= to secure to
them the advantages of their claim in a moral
social, and charitable point of view, and
from them the performance of corresponding

30 	ADOPTIVE
duties ." Hence, no females but those holding
the above recited relations to Freemasons were
eligible for admission . The male members
were called " Protectors " ; the female, " Stel-
lar " ; the reunions of these members were
styled " Constellations " ; and the Rite was
presided over and governed by a " Supreme
Constellation ." There is some ingenuity and
even beauty in many of the ceremonies, al-
though it is by no means equal in this respect
to the French Adoptive system . Much dis-
satisfaction was, however, expressed by the
leading Masons of the country at the time of
its attempted organization ; and therefore,
notwithstanding very strenuous efforts were
made by its founder and his friends to estab-
lish it in some of the Western States, it was
slow in winning popularity . It has, however,
within a few years past, gained much growth
under the name of 	" The Eastern Star ."
Bro . Albert Pike has also recently printed, for
the use of Scottish Rite Masons, The Masonry
of Adoption . 	It is in seven degrees, and is a
translation from the French system, but
greatly enlarged, and is far superior to the
original .
The last phase of this female Masonry to
which our attention is directed is the system
of androgynous degrees which are practised
to some extent in the United States . This
term " androgynous " is derived from two
Greek words, Zdjp (21vipos), a man, and yvvi1,
a woman, and it is equivalent to the English
compound, masculo feminine . 	It is applied
to those " side degrees " which are conferred
on both males and females . The essential reg-
ulation prevailing in these degrees, is that
they can be conferred only do Master Masons
(and in some instances only on Royal Arch
Masons) and on their female relatives, the
peculiar relationship differing in the different
degrees .
Thus there is a degree generally called the
" Mason's Wife," which can be conferred only
on Master Masons, their wives, unmarried
daughters and sisters, and their widowed
mothers . Another degree, called the "Heroine
of Jericho," is conferred only on the wives and
daughters of Royal Arch Masons ; and the
third, the only one that has much pretension
of ceremony or ritual, is the " Good Samari-
tan," whose privileges are confined to Royal
Arch Masons and their wives .
In some parts of the United States these
degrees are very popular, while in other places
they are never practised, and are strongly
condemned as modern innovations . The fact
is, that by their friends as well as their ene-
mies these so-called degrees have been greatly
misrepresented . When females are told that
in receiving these degrees they are admitted
into the Masonic Order, and are obtaining
Masonic information, under the name of
" Ladies' Masonry," they are simply deceived .
When a woman is informed that, by passing
through the brief and unimpressive ceremony
of any one of these degrees, she has become a
Mason, the deception is still more gross and
inexcusable . But it is true that every woman
ADORATION
who is related by ties of consanguinity to a
Master Mason is at all times and under all
circumstances peculiarly entitled to Masonic
protection and assistance . Now, if the recip-
ient of an androgynous degree is candidly
instructed that, by the use of these degrees,
the female relatives of Masons are put in pos-
session of the means of making their claims
known by what may be called a sort of oral
testimony, which, unlike a written certificate,
can be neither lost nor destroyed ; but that, by
her initiation as a " Mason's Wife " or as a
" Heroine of Jericho," she is brought no nearer
to the inner portal of Masonry than she was
before-if she is honestly told all this, then
there can hardly be any harm, and there may
be some good in these forms if prudently be-
stowed . 	But all attempts to make Masonry
of them, and especially that anomalous thing
called " Female Masonry," are reprehensible,
and are well calculated to produce opposition
among the well-informed and cautious mem-
bers of the Fraternity .
Adoptive Masonry, Egyptian . A system
invented by Cagliostro . (See Cagliostro .)
Adoration . 	The act of paying divine wor-
ship . 	The Latin word adorare is derived from
ad, " to," and os, oris, " the mouth," and we
thus etymologically learn that the primitive
and most general method of adoration was by
the application of the fingers to the mouth .
Hence we read in Job (xxxi . 26) : " If I beheld
the sun when it shined, or the moon walking
in brightness, and my heart hath been secretly
enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand, this
also were an iniquity to be punished by the
judges ; for I should have denied the God that
is above ." Here the mouth kissing the hand is
an equipollent expression to adoration, as if
he had said, " If I have adored the sun or the
moon ." This mode of adoration is said to have
originated among the Persians, who, as wor-
shipers of the sun, always turned their faces
to the east and kissed their hands to that lumi-
nary . The gesture was first used as a token of
respect to their monarchs, and was easily
transferred to objects of worship . Other ad-
ditional forms of adoration were used in vari-
ous countries, but in almost all of them this
reference to kissing was in some degree pre-
served . It is yet a practice of quite common
usage for Orientals to kiss what they deem
sacred or that which they wish to adore ex-
ample, Wailing Place of the Jews at Jerusalem .
The marble toes of the statue of St . Peter in
the Cathedral of St . Peter's at Rome have been
worn away by the kissings of Catholics and
have been replaced by bronze . Among the an-
cient Romans the act of adoration was thus
performed : The worshiper, having his head
covered, applied his right hand to his lips,
thumb erect, and the forefinger resting on-it,
and then, bowing his head, he turned round
from right to left . And hence Apuleius
(Apolog .) uses the expression " to apply the
hand to the lips," manum labris admovere, to
express the act of adoration . The Grecian
mode of adoration differed from the Roman in
having the head uncovered, which practise

ADVANCED
was adopted by the Christians . The Oriental
nations cover the head, but uncover the feet .
They also express the act of adoration by pros-
trating themselves on their faces and applying
their foreheads to the ground . The ancient
Jews adored by kneeling, sometimes by pros-
tration of the whole body, and by kissing the
hand . This act, therefore, of kissing the
hand was an early and a very general symbol
of adoration . But we must not be led into
the error of supposing that a somewhat similar
gesture used in some of the high degrees of
Freemasonry has any allusion to an act of
worship . It refers to that symbol of silence
and secrecy which is figured in the statues of
Harpocrates, the god of silence . The Ma-
sonic idea of adoration has been well depicted
by the medieval Christian painters, who rep-
resented the act by angels prostrated before a
luminous triangle .
Advanced . 	This word has two technical
meanings in Masonry .
1 . We speak of a candidate as being ad-
vanced when he has passed from a lower to a
higher degree ; as we say that a candidate is
qualified for advancement from the Entered
Apprentice's degree to that of a Fellow-Craft
when he has made that " suitable proficiency
in the former which, by the regulations of the
Order, entitle him to receive the initiation into
and the instructions of the latter ." And when
the Apprentice has thus been promoted to the
Second Degree he is said to have advanced in
Masonry .
2 . However, this use of the term is by no
means universal, and the word is peculiarly
applied to the initiation of a candidate into the
Mark Degree, which is the fourth in the modi-
fication of the American Rite . The Master
Mason is thus said to be " advanced to the
honorary degree of a Mark Master," to indi-
cate either that he has now been promoted one
step beyond the degrees of Ancient Craft Ma-
sonry on his way to the Royal Arch, or to ex-
press the fact that he has been elevated from
the common class of Fellow-Crafts to that
higher and more select one which, according
to the traditions of Masonry, constituted, at
the first Temple, the class of Mark Masters .
(See Mark Master .)
Advancement Hurried . 	Nothing can be
more certain than that the proper qualifica-
tions of a candidate for admission into the
mysteries of Freemasonry, and the necessary
proficiency of a Mason who seeks advance-
ment to a higher degree, are the two great
bulwarks which are to protect the purity and
integrity of our Institution . Indeed, we know
not which is the more hurtful-to admit an
applicant who is unworthy, or to promote a
candidate who is ignorant of his first lessons .
The one affects the external, the other the in-
ternal character of the Institution . The one
brings discredit upon the Order among the
profane, who already regard us, too often,
with suspicion and dislike ; the other intro-
duces ignorance and incapacity into our ranks,
and dishonors the science of Masonry in our
own eyes . The one covers our walls with im-
ADVANCEMENT 	31
perfect and worthless stones, which mar the
outward beauty and impair the strength of our
temple ; the other fills our interior apartments
with confusion and disorder, and leaves the
edifice, though externally strong, both ineffi-
cient and inappropriate for its destined uses .
But, to the candidate himself, a too hurried
advancement is often attended with the most
disastrous effects . As in geometry, so in Ma-
sonry, there is no " royal road " to perfection .
A knowledge of its principles and its science,
and consequently an acquaintance with its
beauties, can only be acquired by long and
diligent study . To the careless observer it
seldom offers, at a hasty glance, much to at-
tract his attention or secure his interest . The
gold must be deprived, by careful manipula-
tion, of the dark and worthless ore which sur-
rounds and envelops it, before its metallic
luster and value can be seen and appreciated .
Hence, the candidate who hurriedly passes
through his degrees without a due examina-
tion of the moral and intellectual purposes of
each, arrives at the summit of our edifice with-
out a due and necessary appreciation of the
general symmetry and connection that per-
vade the whole system . The candidate, thus
hurried through the elements of our science,
and unprepared, by a knowledge of its funda-
mental principles, for the reception and com-
prehension of the corollaries which are to be
deduced from them, is apt to view the whole
system as " a rude and indigested mass " of
frivolous ceremonies and puerile conceits,
whose intrinsic value will not adequately pay
him for the time, the trouble, and expense that
he has incurred in his forced initiation . To
him, Masonry is as incomprehensible as was
the veiled statue of Isis to its blind worship-
ers, and he becomes, in consequence, either a
useless drone in our hive, or speedily retires in
disgust from all participation in our labors .
But the candidate who by slow and painful
steps has proceeded through each apartment
of our mystic Temple, from its porch to its
sanctuary, pausing in his progress to admire
the beauties and to study the uses of each
learning, as he advances, " line upon line, ands
precept upon precept," is gradually and al-
most imperceptibly imbued with so much
admiration of the Institution, so much love
for its principles, so much just appreciation of
its design as a conservator of divine truth, and
an agent of human civilization, that he is in-
clined, on beholding, at last, the whole beauty
of the finished building, to exclaim, as did the
wondering Queen of Sheba : " A Most Excel-
lent Master must have done all this!"
The usage in many jurisdictions of the
United States, when the question is asked in
the ritual whether the candidate has made
suitable proficiency in his preceding degree, is
to reply, " Such as time and circumstances
would permit ." We have no doubt that this
was an innovation originally invented to evade
the law, which has always required a due pro-
ficiency . To such a question no other answer
ought to be given than the positive and un-
equivocal one that "he has ." Neither "time

32 	ADVANCEMENT
nor circumstances " should be permitted to
interfere with his attainment of the necessary
knowledge, nor excuse its absence . This, with
the wholesome rule, very generally existing,
which requires an interval between the con-
ferring of the degrees, would go far to remedy
the evil of too hurried and unqualified ad-
vancement, of which all intelligent Masons
are now complaining .
After these views of the necessity of a care-
ful examination of the claims of a candidate
for advancement in Masonry, and the neces-
sity, for his own good as well as that of the
Order, that each one should fully prepare him-
self for this promotion, it is proper that we
should next inquire into the laws of Masonry,
by which the wisdom and experience of our
predecessors have thought proper to guard as
well the rights of those who claim advance-
ment as the interests of the Lodge which is
called upon to grant it . This subject has been
so fully treated in Mackey's Text Book of Ma-
sonic Jurisprudence (b . iii ., ch . i ., p . 165 et
seq .) that we shall not hesitate to incorporate
the views in that work into the present article .
The subject of the petition of a candidate
for advancement involves three questions of
great importance : First, how soon, after re-
ceiving the First Degree, can he apply for the
Second? Secondly, what number of black balls
is necessary to constitute a rejection? And
thirdly, what time must elapse, after a first
rejection, before the Apprentice can renew his
application for advancement?
1 . How soon, after receiving a former degree,
can a candidate apply for advancement to the
next? The necessity of a full comprehension
of the mysteries of one degree, before any at-
tempt is made to acquire those of a second,
seems to have been thoroughly appreciated
from the earliest times ; thus the 13th Article
in the Regius MS ., which is the oldest Masonic
document now extant, provides that " if the
master a prentice have, he shall teach him
thoroughly and tell him measurable points,
that he may know the craft ably, wherever
he goes under the sun ." Similar direction
is found in most all the MS . But if there
be an obligation on the part of the Master
to instruct his Apprentice, there must be,
of course, a correlative obligation on the part
of the latter to receive and profit by those in-
structions . 	Accordingly, unless this obliga-
tion is discharged, and the Apprentice makes
himself acquainted with the mysteries of the
degree that he has already received, it is, by
general consent, admitted that he has no right
to be entrusted with further and more im-
portant information . The modern ritual sus-
tains this doctrine, by requiring that the can-
didate, as a qualification in passing onward,
shall have made " suitable proficiency in the
preceding degree ." This is all that the general
law prescribes. Suitable proficiency must have
been attained, and the period in which that
condition will be acquired must necessarily
depend on the mental capacity of the candi-
date . Some men will become proficient in a
shorter time than others, and of this fact the
ADVANCEMENT
Master and the Lodge are to be the judges .
An examination should therefore take place in
open Lodge, and a ballot immediately follow-
ing will express the opinion of the Lodge on the
result of that examination, and the q ual ifica-
tion of the candidate . [Such ballot, however,
is not usual in Lodges under the English Con-
stitution .]
Several modern Grand Lodges, looking with
disapprobation on the rapidity with which the
degrees are sometimes conferred upon candi-
dates wholly incompetent, have adopted spe-
cial regulations, prescribing a determinate
period of probation for each degree . [Thus
the Grand Lodge of England requires an in-
terval of not less than four weeks before a
higher degree can be conferred .] This, how-
ever, is a local law, to be obeyed only in those
jurisdictions in which it is in force . The
general law of Masonry makes no such deter-
minate provision of time, and demands only
that the candidate shall give evidence of " suit-
able proficiency ."
2 . What number of black balls is necessary
to constitute a rejection? Here we are entirely
without the guidance of any express law, as
all the Ancient Constitutions are completely
silent upon the subject . It would seem, how-
ever, that in the advancement of an Appren-
tice or Fellow-Craft, as well as in the election
of a profane, the ballot should be unanimous .
This is strictly in accordance with the prin-
ciples of Masonry, which require unanimity
in admission, lest improper persons be in-
truded, and harmony impaired . Greater quali-
fications are certainly not required of a pro-
fane applying for initiation than of an initi-
ate seeking advancement ; nor can there be
any reason why the test of those qualifications
should not be as rigid in the one case as in the
other . 	It may be laid down as a rule, there-
fore, that in all cases of balloting for advance-
ment in any of the degrees of 	asonry, a sin-
gle black ball will reject .
3 . What time must elapse, after a first rejec-
tion, before the Apprentice or Fellow-Craft can
renew his application for advancement to a
higher degree? 	Here, too, the Ancient Consti-
tutions are silent, and we are left to deduce
our opinions from the general principles and
analogies of Masonic law . As the application
for advancement to a higher degree is founded
on a right enuring to the Apprentice or Fellow-
Craft by virtue of his reception into the pre-
vious degree-that is to say, as the Appren-
tice, so soon as he has been initiated, becomes
invested with the right of applying for ad-
vancement to the Second-it seems evident
that as long as he remains an Apprentice " in
good standing," he continues to be invested
with that right . Now, the rejection of his
petition for advancement by the Lodge does
not impair his right to apply again, because it
does not affect his rights and standing as an
Apprentice ; it is simply the expression of the
opinion that the Lodge does not at present
deem him qualified for further progress in
Masonry . We must never forget the differ-
ence between the rightof applying foradvance-

ADYTUM
ment and the right of advancement . Every
Apprentice possesses the former, but no one
can claim the latter until it is given to him by
the unanimous vote of the Lodge . And as,
therefore, this right of application or petition
is not impaired by its rejection at a particular
time, and as the Apprentice remains precisely
in the same position in his own degree, after
the rejection, as he did before, it seems to fol-
low, as an irresistible deduction, that he may
again apply at the next regular communica-
tion, and, if a second time rejected, repeat his
applications at all future meetings . The En-
tered Apprentices of a Lodge are competent,
at all regular communications of their Lodge,
to petition for advancement . Whether that
petition shall be granted or rejected is quite
another thing, and depends altogether on the
favor of the Lodge . And what is here said of
an A prentice, in relation to advancement to
the Second Degree, may be equally said of a
Fellow-Craft in reference to advancement to
the Third .
This opinion has not, it is true, been uni-
versally adopted, though no force of author-
ity, short of an opposing landmark, could
make one doubt its correctness . For instance,
the Grand Lodge of California decided, in
1857, that " the application of Apprentices or
Fellow Crafts for advancement should, after
they have been once rejected by ballot, be
governed by the same principles which regu-
late the ballot on petitions for initiation, and
which require a probation of one year ."
This appears to be a singular decision of
Masonic law . If the reasons which prevent
the advancement of an Apprentice or Fellow-
Craft to a higher degree are of such a nature
as to warrant the delay of one year, it is far
better to prefer charges against the petitioner,
and to give him the opportunity of a fair and
impartial trial . In many cases, a candidate
for advancement is retarded in his progress
from an opinion, on the part of the Lodge,
that he is not yet sufficiently prepared for
promotion by a knowledge of the preceding
degree-an objection which may sometimes be
removed before the recurrence of the next
monthly meeting . In such a case, a decision
like that of the Grand Lodge of California
would be productive of manifest injustice . It
is, therefore, a more consistent rule, that the
candidate for advancement has a right to
apply at every regular meeting, and that
whenever any moral objections exist to his
taking a higher degree, these objections should
be made in the form of charges, and their
truth tested by an impartial trial . To this,
too, the candidate is undoubtedly entitled, on
all the principles of justice and equity .
Adytum . 	The most retired and secret
part of the ancient temples, into which the
people were not permitted to enter, but which
was accessible to the priests only, was called
the adytum . And hence the derivation of
the word from the Greek privative prefix
a, and Slew, to enter = that which is not to be
entered . 	In the adytum was generally to be
found a Tdoos, or tomb, or some relics or sa-
AFFILIATED 	33
cred images of the god to whom the temple
was consecrated . It being supposed that
temples owed their origin to the superstitious
reverence paid by the ancients to their de-
ceased friends, and as most of the gods were
men who had been deified on account of their
virtues, temples were, perhaps, at first only
stately monuments erected in honor of the
dead . Hence the interior of the temple was
originally nothing more than a cavity regarded
as a place for the reception of a person in-
terred, and in it was to be found the oop6s, or
coffin, the Td¢os, or tomb, or, among the
Scandinavians, the barrow or mound grave . In
time, the statue or image of a god took the
place of the coffin ; but the reverence for the
spot as one of peculiar sanctity remained, and
this interior part of the temple became, among
the Greeks, the o -710s, or chapel, among the
Romans the adytum, or forbidden place, and
among the Jews the kodesh hakodashim, the
Holy of Holies . (See Holy of Holies .) 	"The
sanctity thus acquired," says Dudley (Naol-
ogy, p . 393), " by the cell of interment might
readily and with propriety be assigned to any
fabric capable of -containing the body of the
departed friend, or the relic, or even the sym-
bol, of the presence or existence of a divine
personage ." And thus it has happened that
there was in every ancient temple an adytum
or most holy place . The adytum of the small
temple of Pompeii is still in excellent preserva-
tion . 	It is carried some steps above the level
of the main building, and, like the Jewish
sanctuary, is without light .
,Eneid . 	Bishop Warburton (Div . Leg .) has
contended, and his opinion has been sus-
tained by the great majority of subsequent
commentators, that Virgil, in the sixth book of
his immortal Epic, has, under the figure of the
descent of 2Eneas into the infernal regions,
described the ceremony of initiation into the
Ancient Mysteries .
A on . 	This word, in its original Greek,
atw, signifies the age or duration of anything .
The Gnostics, however, used it in a peculiar
mode to designate the intelligent, intellectual,
and material powers or natures which flowed
as emanations from the BvObs, or Infinite
Abyss of Deity, and which were connected
with their divine fountain as rays of light are
with the sun . 	(See Gnostics .)
,Era Architectonica . 	This is used in
some modern Masonic lapidary inscriptions to
designate the date more commonly known as
annus lucis, the year of light .
AfHate, Free . 	The French gave the
name of " free affiliates " to those members of
a Lodge who are exempted from the payment of
dues, and neither hold office nor vote . Known
among English-speaking Masons as " honor-
ary members ."
There is a quite common use of affiliate in
Lodges of the United States to designate one
who has joined a Lodge by demit .
Affiliated Mason . 	A Mason who holds
membership in some Lodge . The word affili-
ation is derived from the French aflier, which
Richelet (Dict . de la langue Frangaise) defines,

34 	AFFIRMATION 	AFRICA
," to communicate to any one a participation
in the spiritual benefits of a religious order,"
and he says that such a communication is
called an " affiliation ." - The word, as a tech-
nical term, is not found in any of the old Ma-
sonic writers, who always use admission in-
stead of affiliation . There is no precept more
explicitly expressed in the Ancient Constitu-
tions than that every Mason should belong to
a Lodge . The foundation of the law which
imposes this duty is to be traced as far back as
the Regius MS ., which is the oldest Masonic
document now extant, and of which the " Se-
cunde poynt " requires that the Mason work
upon the workday as truly as he can in order
to deserve his hire for the holiday, and that
he shall " truly labour on his deed that he may
well deserve to have his meed ." (Lines 269-
274 .) The obligation that every Mason should
thus labor is implied in all the subsequent
Constitutions, which always speak of Masons
as working members of the Fraternity, until we
come to the Charges approved in 1722, which
explicitly state that "every Brother ought
to belong to a Lodge, and to be subject to its
By-Laws and the General Regulations ."
A®rmation . 	The question has been
mooted whether a Quaker, or other person
having peculiar religious scruples in reference
to taking oaths, can receive the degrees of
Masonry by taking an affirmation . Now, as
the obligations of Masonry are symbolic in
their character, and the forms in which they
are admi nis tered constitute the essence of the
symbolism, there cannot be a doubt that the
prescribed mode is the only one that ought to
be used, and that affirmations are entirely in-
admissible . The London Freemason's Quarterly
(1828, p . 286) says that "a Quaker's affirma-
tion is binding ." This is not denied : the only
question is whether it is admissible . Can the
obligations be assumed in any but one way,
unless the ritual be entirely changed? And can
any "man or body of men" at this time make
such a change without affecting the universal-
ity of Masonry? Bro . Chase (Masonic Digest,
p . 448) says that "conferring the degrees on
affirmation is no violation of the spirit of Free-
masonry, and neither overthrows nor affects a
landmark ." And in this he is sustained by
the Grand Lodge of Maine (1823) ; but the
only other Grand Lodges which have expressed
an opinion on this subject-namely, those of
Missouri, Tennessee, Kentucky, Delaware,
Virginia, and Pennsylvania-have made an
opposite decision . The entire practise of
Lodges in America is also against the use
of an affirmation . But in England Quakers
have been initiated after affirmation, the ange River Colony, Rhodesia and the Trans-
principle being that a form of 0 B . - . which the vaal, and 28 under the jurisdiction of the
candidate accepts as binding will suffice . 	Grand Orient of the Netherlands, besides two
Africa . 	Anderson (Constitutions, 1738, p . 'German Lodges at Johannesburg .
195) has recorded that in 1735 Richard' 	On the East Coast of the Dark Continent
Hull, Esq ., was appointed " Provincial Grand there are two Lodges at Nairobi, one of them
Master at Gambay in West Africa," that in being English and the other Scotch, and there
1736 David Creighton, M .D ., was appointed is also an English Lodge at Zanzibar .
" Provincial Grand Master at Cape Coast ! 	[E . L . H .]
Castle in Africa," and that in 1737 Capt . Will- ; 	Africa . 	In the French Rite of Adoption,
iam Douglas was appointed " Provincial the south of the Lodge is called Africa .
Grand Master on the Coast of Africa and in
the Islands of America, excepting such places
where a Provincial Grand Master is already
deputed ." 	However, in spite of these ap-
pointments having been made by the Grand
Lodge of England, there is no trace of the es-
tablishment of any Lodges in West Africa
until 1792, in which year a Lodge numbered
586 was constituted at Bulam, followed in
1810 by the Torridzonian Lodge at Cape
Coast Castle . 	There are now on the West
Coast of Africa fourteen Lodges warranted
by the Grand Lodge of England, one holding
an Irish warrant, one under the Grand Lodge
of Scotland and two German Lodges ; and in
the Negro Republic of Liberia a Grand Lodge
was constituted in 1867, with nine daughter
Lodges subordinate to it .
In the North of Africa there is the Grand
Lodge of Egypt at Cairo with 47 subordinate
Lodges ; both England and Scotland have
established District Grand Lodges in Egypt
by consent of the former, while Italy, France
and Germany have Lodges at Alexandria and
Cairo . 	In Algeria and Morocco French in-
fluence is predominant, but in Tunis there is
an independent Grand Lodge, established in
1881 .
Masonry was introduced into South Africa
by the erection of a Dutch Lodge (" De Goede
Hoop") at Cape Town in 1772, followed by
another under the same jurisdiction in 1802,
and it was not until nine years later that the
first English Lodge was established there,
which was gradually followed by others, the
Dutch and English Masons working side by
side with such harmony that the English
Provincial Grand Master for the District who
was appointed in 1829 was also Deputy
Grand Master for the Netherlands . In 1860
a Scotch Lodge was set up at Cape Town,
and 35 years later one was erected at Johan-
nesburg under the Grand Lodge of Ireland,
so that there are four different Masonic bodies
exercising jurisdiction and working amicably
together in South Africa, viz ., the Grand
Lodges of England, Ireland and Scotland,
and the Grand Orient of the Netherlands .
Under the Grand Lodge of England there
were at the last issue of the Masonic Year-
Book, 155 subordinate Lodges arranged in
5 Districts, viz ., Central, Eastern and West-
ern South Africa, Natal and the Transvaal .
At the same time there were 16 Lodges
owing allegiance to the Grand Lodge of Ire-
land, 76 under the Scotch Constitution, di-
vided among the Districts of Cape Colony,
Cape Colony Western Province, Natal, Or-

AFRICAN
African Architects, Order of . Some-
times called African Builders ; French, Archi-
teetes de l'Afrique ; German, AfricanischeBau-
herren .
Of all the new sects and modern degrees of
Freemasonry which sprang up on the conti-
nent of Europe during the eighteenth century,
there was none which, for the time, main-
tained so high an intellectual position as the
Order of African Architects, called by the
French Architectes de l'Afrique, and by the
Germans Africanische Bauherren . A Masonic
sect of this name had originally been estab-
lished in Germany in the year 1756, but it
does not appear to have attracted much at-
tention, or indeed to have deserved it ; and
hence, amid the multitude of Masonic innova-
tions to which almost every day was giving
birth and ephemeral existence, it soon disap-
peared . But the society which is the subject of
the present article, although it assumed the
name of the original African Architects, was of
a very different character . It may, however, be
considered, as it was established only eleven
years afterward, as a remodification of it .
They admitted to membership those pos-
sessing high intellectual attainments rather
than those possessing wealth or preferment .
There was probably no real connection be-
tween this order and Freemasonry of Ger-
many, even if they did profess kindly feelings
for it . They based their order on the degrees
of Masonry, as the list of degrees shows, but
their work began in the Second Temple .
While they had a quasi-connection with Free-
masonry, we cannot call them a Masonic body
according to the present day standards .
The degrees were named and classified as
follows : FIRST TEMPLE
1 . Apprentice .
2 . Fellow-Craft .
3 . Master Mason .
SECOND TEMPLE
4 . Architect, or Apprentice of Egyptian
secrets [or Bosonien (Acta Latomorum, i ., 297)] .
5 . Initiate into Egyptian secrets for
Alethophilote (Acta Latomorum, i ., 292)] .
6 . Cosmopolitan Brother .
7 . Christian Philosopher [Thory calls this
the Fourth Degree (A . L ., i ., 332)] .
8 . Master of Egyptian secrets .
9 . Squire of the Order .
10 . Soldier of the Order .
11 . Knight of the Order .
The last three were called superior degrees,
and were conferred only as a second or higher
class, with great discrimination, upon those
who had proved their worthiness of promotion .
The assemblies of the brethren were called
Chapters . The central or superintending
power was styled a Grand Chapter, and it
was governed by the following twelve officers :
1 . Grand Master .
2 . Deputy Grand Master .
3 . Senior Grand Warden .
AGATE 	35
4 . Junior Grand Warden .
5 . Drapier .
6 . Almoner .
7 . Tricoplerius, or Treasurer .
8 . Graphiarius, or Secretary .
9 . Seneschal .
10 . Standard-Bearer .
11 . Marshal .
12 . Conductor .
The African Architects was not the only
society which in the eighteenth century sought
to rescue Masonry from the impure hands of
the charlatans into which it had well-nigh
fallen .
African Brother . 	One of the degrees of
the Rite of the Clerks of Strict Observance,
according to Thory (Actor Latomorum, i ., 291) ;
but it is not mentioned in other lists of the
degrees of that Rite .
African Brothers . 	One of the titles
given to the African Architects, which see .
African Builders . (See African Architects .)
African Lodge . 	(See Negro Lodges .)
Agap .T . The agapae, or love-feasts, were
banquets held during the first three centuries
in the Christian Church . They were called
" love-feasts," because, after partaking of the
Sacrament, they met, both rich and poor, at a
common feast-the former furnishing the pro-
visions, and the latter, who had nothing, being
relieved and refreshed by their more opulent
brethren . Tertullian (Apologia, cap . xxxix . )
thus describes these banquets : " We do not
sit down before we have first offered up prayers
to God ; we eat and drink only to satisfy
hunger and thirst, remembering still that we
are to worship God by night : we discourse as
in the presence of God, knowing that He hears
us : then, after water to wash our hands, and
lights brought in, every one is moved to sing
some hymn to God, either out of the Scrip-
ture, or, as he is able, of his own composing .
Prayer again concludes our feast, and we de-
part, not to fight and quarrel, or to abuse those
we meet, but to pursue the same care of
modesty and chastity, as men that have fed
at a supper of philosophy and discipline,
rather than a corporeal feast ."
Dr . August Kestner, Professor of Theology,
published in Jena, in 1819, a work in which
he maintains that the agapae, established at
Rome by Clemens, in the reign of Domitian,
were mysteries which partook of a Masonic,
symbolic, and religious character .
In the Rosicrucian degrees of Mason we	find an imitation of these love-feasts the
primitive Christians ; and the ceremonies of
the banquet in the degree of Rose Croix of the
Ancient and Accepted Rite, especially as prac-
tised by French Chapters, are arranged with
reference to the ancient agapae . Reghellini,
indeed, finds an analogy between the table-
lodges of modern Masonry and these love-
feasts of the primitive Christians .
Agate . A stone varying in color, but of
great hardness, being a variety of the flint .
The agate, in Hebrew 1=7, SHeBO, was the
center stone of tie third row in the breastplate

36 	AGATE
of the high priest . Agates often contain
representations of leaves, mosses, etc ., de-
picted by the hand of nature . Some of the
representations on these are exceedingly sin-
gular . Thus, on one side of one in the posses-
sion of Velschiua was a half moon, and on the
other a star . Kircher mentions one which
had a representation of an armed heroine ;
another, in the church of St . Mark in Venice,
which had a representation of a king's head,
adorned with a diadem ; and a third which
contained the letters I . N . R . I . (Oliver's His-
torical Landmarks, ii ., 522 .) In the collections
of antiquaries are also to be found many gems
of agate on which mystical inscriptions have
been engraved, the significations of which are,
for the most part, no longer understood .
Agate, Stone of . 	Among the Masonic
traditions is one which asserts that the stone
of foundation was formed of agate . This,
like everything connected with the legend of
the stone, is to be mystically interpreted . In
this view, agate is a symbol of strength and
beauty, a symbolism derived from the peculiar
character of the agate, which is distinguished
for its compact formation and the ornamental
character of its surface . (See Stone of Founda-
tion .)
Agathopades . 	A liberal 	ecclesiastical
order founded in Brussels in the sixteenth
century . Revived and revised by Schayes in
1846 . 	It had for its sacred sign the penta-
stigma
Age, Lawful . 	One of the qualifications
for candidates is that they shall be of " lawful
age." What that age must be is not settled
by any universal law or landmark of the Order .
The Ancient Regulations do not express any
determinate number of years at the expiration
of which a candidate becomes legally entitled
to apply for admission . The language used
is, that he must be of " mature and discreet
age ." But the usage of the Craft has differed
in various countries as to the construction of
the time when this eriod of maturity and
discretion is suppose to have arrived . The
sixth of the Regulations, which are said to
have been made in 1663, prescribes that " no
person shall be accepted a Freemason unless
he be one and twenty years old or more" ; but
the subsequent Regulations are less explicit .
At Frankfort-on-the-Main, the age required
is twenty ; in the Lodges of Switzerland, it has
been fixed at twenty-one . The Grand Lodge
of Hanover prescribes the age of twenty-five,
but permits the son of a Mason to be admitted
at eighteen . 	(See Lewis .) 	The Grand Lodge
of Hamburg decrees that the lawful age for
initiation shall be that which in any country
has been determined by the laws of the land
to be the age of majority . The Grand Orient
of France requires the candidate to be twenty-
one, unless he be the son of a Mason who has
performed some important service to the Order,
or unless he be a young man who has served
six months in the army, when the initiation
may take place at the age of eighteen . In
Prussia the required age is twenty-five .
AGNOSTUS
Under the Grand Lodge of England the Con-
stitutions of 1723 provided that no man should
be made a Mason under the age of twenty-five
unless by dispensation from the Grand Mas-
ter, and this remained the necessary age until
it was lowered in the Constitutions of 1784 to
twenty-one years, as at present, though the
" Ancient " Masons still retained the re-
quirement of twenty-five until the Union of
1813 . Under the Scotch Constitution the age
was eighteen until 1891, when it was raised
to twenty-one . Under the Irish Constitution
the age was twenty-one until 1741, when it
was raised to twenty-five and so remained
until 1817, when it was lowered again to
twenty-one . In the United States, the usage
is general that the candidate shall not be less
than twenty-one years of age at the time of
his initiation, and no dispensation can issue
for conferring the degrees at an earlier period .
Age, Masonic . 	In some Masonic Rites a
mystical age is appropriated to each degree,
and the initiate who has received the degree
is said to be of such an age . Thus, the age of
an Entered Apprentice is said to be three
years ; that of a Fellow-Craft, five ; and that
of a Master Mason, seven. These ages are
not arbitrarily selected, but have a reference
to the mystical value of numbers and their
relation to the different degrees . Thus, three
is the symbol of peace and concord, and has
been called in the Pythagorean system the
number of perfect harmony, and is appro-
priated to that degree, which is the initiation
into an Order whose fundamental principles
are harmony and brotherly love . Five is the
symbol of active life, the union of the female
principle two and the male principle three, and
refers in this way to the active duties of man
as a denizen of the world, which constitutes
the symbolism of the Fellow-Craft's degree ;
and seven, as a venerable and perfect number,
is symbolic of that perfection which is sup-
posed to be attained in the Master's degree .
In a way similar to this, all the ages of the
other degrees are symbolically and mystically
explained .
The Masonic ages are-and it will thus be
seen that they are all mystic numbers-3, 5,
7, 9, 15, 27, 63, 81 .
Agenda . 	A Latin word meaning " things
to be done ." Thus an " Agenda Paper " is a
list of the matters to be brought before a
meeting .
Agla . One of the Kabbalistic names of God,
which is composed of the initials of the words
of the following sentence : '1~yK iT?y~7 77a 1'Idi,
Atah Gibor Lolam Adonai, " thou art mighty
forever, 0 Lord ." This name the Kabbalists
arranged seven times in the center and at the
intersecting points of two interlacing triangles,
which figure they called the Shield of David,
and used as a talisman, believing that it would
cure wounds, extinguish fires, and perform
other wonders . 	(See Shield of David .)
Agnostus, Trenaeus . 	This is supposed by
Moss (Bibliog ., Nos . 2442, 2497, etc .) to have
been a nom de plume of Gotthardus Arthusius,
a co-rector in the Gymnasium of Frankfort-

AGNUS
on-the-Main, and a writer of some local
celebrity in the beginning of the seventeenth
century . 	(See Arthusius .) 	Under this as-
sumed name of Irennus Agnostus, he pub-
lished, between the years 1617 and 1620, many
works on the subject of the Rosicrucian Fra-
ternity, which John Valentine Andrea had
about that time established in Germany .
Among those works were the Fortalicium
Scienti s, 	1617 ; 	Clypeum Veritatis, 	1618 ;
Speculum Constantice, 1618 ; Fons 	Gratice,
1619 ; Frater non Frater, 1619 ; Thesaurus Fidei
1619 ; Port us Tranquillitatis, 1620, and several
others of a similar character and equally
quaint title .
j
Agnus Del . The Agnus Dei, Lamb of God,
also called the Paschal Lamb, or the Lamb
offered in the paschal sacrifice, is one of the
ewels of a Commandery of Knights Templar
in America, and is worn by the Generalissimo .
The lamb is one of the earliest symbols of
Christ in the iconography of the Church, and
as such was a representation of the Savior,
derived from that expression of St . John the
Baptist (John i. 29), who, on beholdin g Christ,
exclaimed, "Behold the Lamb of God ."
"Christ," says Didron (Christ . Iconog ., i .,
318), " shedding his blood for our redemption,
is the Lamb slain by the children of Israel, and
with the blood of which the houses to be pre-
served from the wrath of God were marked
with the celestial tau . 	The Paschal Lamb
eaten by the Israelites on the night preceding
their departure from E gyp t is the type of that
other divine Lamb of whom Christians are to
partake at Easter, in order thereby to free
themselves from the bondage in which they
are held by vice ."
The earliest representation that is found in
Didron of the Agnus Dei is of the sixth century,
and consists of a lamb supporting in his right
foot a cross . In the eleventh century we find
a banneret attached to this cross, and the
lamb is then said to support " the banner of
the resurrection ." This is the modern form
in which the Agnus Dei is represented .
Ahabath Olam . Two Hebrew words sig-
nifying eternal love . 	The name of a prayer
which was used by the Jews dispersed over
the whole Roman Empire during the times of
Christ . It was inserted by Dermott in his
Ahiman Rezon (p . 45, ed . 1764) and copied
into several others, with the title of "A
Prayer repeated in the Royal Arch Lodge at
Jerusalem ." The prayer was most probably
adopted by Dermott and attributed to a Royal
Arch Lodge in consequence of the allusion in
it to the " holy, great, mighty, and terrible
name of God ."
Ahlah . So spelled in the common version
of the Bible (1 Kings iv . 3), but according to
the Hebrew orthography the word should be
spelled and pronounced Achiah . • He and Eli-
horeph (or Elichoreph) were the sopherim,
scribes or secretaries of King Solomon . In
the ritual of the Seventh Degree of the Ancient
and Accepted Rite according to the modern
American ritual, these personages are repre-
sented by the two Wardens .
AHIMAN 	37
p
Ahiman Rezon . 	The title given by Der-
mott to the Book of Constitutions of the
Grand Lodge of " Ancient " Masons in Eng-
land, which was established about the middle
of the eighteenth century in opposition to the
legitimate Grand Lodge and its adherents,
who were called the " Moderns," and whose
code of laws was contained in Anderson's
work known as the Book of Constitutions .
Many attempts have been made to explain the
significance of this title ; thus, according to Dr .
Mackey, it is derived from three Hebrew words,
O'r 	ahim, " brothers" ; = , manah, "to
a point," or " to select " (in the sense of being
aced in a peculiar class see Isaiah liii . 12) ;
and J21, ratzon, " the will, pleasure, or mean-
ing" ; and hence the combination of the three
words in the title, Ahiman Rezon, signifies
" the will of selected brethren "-the law of a
class or society of men who are chosen or
selected from the rest of the world as brethren .
Dr . Dalcho (Ahim . Rez . of South Carolina, p .
159, 2d ed .) derives it from ahi, " a brother,"
manah, " to prepare," and rezon, " secret " ; so
that, as he says, " Ahiman Rezon literally
means the secrets of a prepared brother ." 	But
the best meaning of manah is that which con-
veys the idea of being placed in or appointed
to a certain, exclusive class, as we find in
Isaiah (liii . 12) " he was numbered (nimenah )
with the transgressors," placed in that class,
being taken out of every other order of men .
And although rezon may come from ratzon, " a
will or law," it can hardly be elicited by any
rules of etymology out of the Chaldee word
raz, " a secret," the termination in on being
wanting ; and besides the book called the
Ahiman Rezon does not contain the secrets,
but only the public laws of Masonry . The
derivation of Dalcho seems therefore inad-
missible . Not less so is that of Bro . W . S .
Rockwell, who (Ahim . Rez . of Georgia, 1859,
p . 3) thinks the derivation may be found in
the Hebrew, 11nN, amun, " a builder" or
" architect," and it1, rezon, as a noun
" prince," and as an adjective, " royal," and
hence, Ahiman Rezon, according to this ety-
mology, will signify the "royal builder," or,
symbolically, the " Freemason ." But to de-
rive ahiman from amun, or rather amon, which
is the masoretic pronunciation, is to place all
known laws of etymology at defiance . Rock-
well himself, however, furnishes the best argu-
ment against his strained derivation, when he
admits that its correctness will depend on the
antiquity of the phrase, which he acknowledges
that he doubts . In this, he is right . The
phrase is altogether a modern one, and has
Dermott, the author of the first work bearing
the title, for its inventor . Rockwell's con-
jectural derivation is, therefore, for this rea-
son still more inadmissible than Dalcho's .
But the most satisfactory explanation is as
follows : In his prefatory address to the reader,
Dermott narrates a dream of his in which the
four men appointed by Solomon to be porters
at the Temple (1 Chron . ix . 17) appear to him
as sojourners from Jerusalem, and he tells
them that he is writing a history of Masonry ;

38 	AHIMAN
upon which, one of the four, named Ahiman,
says that no such history has ever yet been
composed and suggests that it never can be .
It is clear, therefore, that the first word of the
title is the name of this personage . What
then does "Rezon " 	signify? Now the
Geneva or "Breeches" Bible, published in
1560, contains a table giving the meanings of
the Bible names and explains Ahiman as " a
prepared brother " or " brother of the right
hand " and Rezon as " a secretary," so that
the title of the book would mean " Brother
Secretary ." That Dermott used the Geneva
Bible is plain from the fact that he quotes
from it in his Address to the reader, and
therefore it may fairly be assumed that
he selected these names to suit his purpose
from the list given in it, especially as he
styles himself on his title-page merely " Sec-
retary ."
But the history of the origin of the book is
more important and more interesting than the
history of the derivation of its title .
The premier Grand Lodge of England was
established in 1717 and ruled the Masons of
London and the South of England without op-
position until in 1751 when some Irish Masons
established another body in London, who pro-
fessed to work " according to the old institu-
tions," and called themselves ` Antient "
Masons and the members of the older Grand
Lodge " Moderns " maintaining that they
alone preserved the ancient usages of Ma-
sonry .
The former of these contending bodies, the
Grand Lodge of England, had, in the year
1722, caused Dr . James Anderson to collect
and compile all the statutes and regulations
by which the Fraternity had in former times
been governed ; and these, after having been
submitted to due revision, were published in
1723, by Anderson, with the title of The Con-
stitutions of the Freemasons . 	This work, of
which several other editions subsequently
appeared, has always been called the Book
of Constitutions, and contains the founda-
tions of the written law by which the Grand
Lodge of England and the Lodges deriving
from it, both in that country and in America,
are governed . But when the Irish Masons
established their rival Grand Lodge, they
found it necessary, also, to have a, Book of
Constitutions ; 	and accordingly, Laurence
Dermott, who was at one time their Grand
Secretary, 	and 	afterward 	their Deputy
Grand Master, compiled such a work, the first
edition of which was published by James Bed-
ford, at London, in 1756, with the following
title : Ahiman Rezon : or a Help to a Brother ;
showing the Excellency of Secrecy, and the first
cause or motive of the Institution of Masonry ;
the Principles of the Craft ; and the Benefits
from a strict Observance thereof, etc ., etc . ; also
the Old and New Regulations, etc . To which is
added the greatest collection of Masons' Songs,
etc . By Bro . Laurence Dermott, Secretary . 8vo,
20A pseecond edition was published in 1764
with this title : Ahiman Rezon : or a help to
AHIMAN
all that are or would be Free and Accepted
Masons ; 	containing the Quintessence of all
that has been published on the Subject of Free-
masonry, with many Additions, which renders
this Work more useful than any other Book of
Constitution now extant . By Lau . Dermott, Sec-
retary . 	London, 1764 . 8vo . 224 pp .
A third edition was published in 1778, with
the following title : Ahiman Rezon : or a Help
to all that are or would be Free and Accepted
Masons, (with many Additions .) By Lau . Der-
mott, D .G .M . Printed for James Jones, Grand
Secretary ; and Sold by Peter Shatwell, in the
Strand . London, 1778 . 	8vo, 232 pp .
Five other editions were published : the 4th,
in 1778 ; the 5th in 1787 ; the 6th in 1800 ; the
7th in 1801 ; the 8th in 1807, and the 9th
in 1813 . In this year, the Ancient Grand
Lodge was dissolved by the union of the two
Grand Lodges of England, and a new Book of
Constitutions having been adopted for the
united body, the Ahiman Rezon became use-
less, and no subsequent edition was ever pub-
lished .
The earlier editions of this work are among
the rarest of Masonic publications, and are
highly prized by collectors .
In the year 1855, Mr . Leon Hyneman, of
Philadelphia, who was engaged in a reprint of
old standard Masonic works (an enterprise
which should have received better patronage
than it did), republished the second edition,
with a few explanatory notes .
As this book contains those principles of
Masonic law by which, for three-fourths of a
century, a large and intelligent portion of the
Craft was governed ; and as it is now becom-
ing rare and, to the generality of readers, inac-
cessible, some brief review of its contents may
not be uninteresting .
In the Preface or Address to the reader,
Dermott pokes fun at the History of Free-
masonry as written by Dr . Anderson and
others, and wittily explains the reason why
he has not published a history of Freema-
sonry .
There is next a "Philacteria for such Gen-
tlemen as may be inclined to become Free-
masons ." This article, which was not in the
first edition, but appeared for the first time in
the second, consists of directions as to the
method to be pursued by one who desires to
be made a Freemason . This is followed by an
account of what Dermott calls "Modern
Masonry," that is, the system pursued by the
original Grand Lodge of England, and of the
differences existing between it and " Ancient
Masonry," or the system of his own Grand
Lodge . He contends that there are material
differences between the two systems ; that of
the Ancients being universal and that of the
Moderns not ; a Modern being able with
safety to communicate all his secrets to an
Ancient, while an Ancient cannot communi-
cate his to a Modern ; a Modern having no
right to be called free and accepted ; all of
which, in his opinion, show that the Ancients
have secrets which are not in the possession of
the Moderns . This, he considers, a convinc-

AHIMAN
ing proof that the Modern Masons were in-
novators upon the established system, and
had instituted their Lodges and framed their
ritual without a sufficient knowledge of the
arcana of the Craft . But the Modern Masons
with more semblance of truth, thought that
the additional secrets of the Ancients were
only innovations that they had made upon
the true body of Masonry ; and hence, they
considered their ignorance of these newly in-
vented secrets was the best evidence of their
own superior antiquity .
In the later editions* Dermott has published
the famous Leland MS ., together with the
commentaries of Locke ; also the resolutions
adopted in 1772 by which the Grand Lodges
of Ireland and ~cotland agreed to maintain a
" Brotherly Connexion and Correspondence "
with the Grand Lodge of England (Ancients) .
The Ahiman Rezon proper, then, begins
with twenty-three pages of an encomium on
Masonry, and an explanation of its principles .
Many a modern Masonic address is better
written, and contains more important and
instructive matter than this prefatory dis-
course .
Then follow " The Old Charges of the Free
and Accepted Masons," taken from the 1738
Edition of Anderson's Constitutions . 	Next
come " A short charge to a new admitted
Mason " " The Ancient manner of constitut-
ing a Lodge," a few prayers, and then the
"General Regulations of the Free and Ac-
cepted Masons ." These are borrowed mainly
from the second edition of Anderson with a
few alterations and additions . After a com-
parison of the Dublin and London " Regula-
tions for Charity," the rest of the book, com-
prising more than a hundred pages, consists
of "A Collection of Masons' Songs," of the
poetical merits of which the less said the better
for the literary reputation of the writers .
Imperfect, however, as was this work, it for
a long time constituted the statute book of the
" Ancient Masons" ; and hence those Lodges
in America which derived their authority from
the Dermott or Ancient Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, accepted its contents as a true exposition
of Masonic law ; and several of their Grand
Lodges caused similar works to be compiled
for their own government, adopting the title
of Ahiman Rezon, which thus became the
peculiar designation of the volume which con-
tained the fundamental law of the "Ancients,"
while the original title of Book of Constitu-
tions continued to be retained by the "Mod-
erns," to designate the volume used by them
for the same purpose .
Of the Ahiman Rezons compiled and pub-
lished in America, the following are the prin-
cipal :
1 . Ahiman Rezon abridged and digested ;
as a help to all that are or would be Free and
Accepted Masons, etc . 	Published by order
of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania ; by Wil-
liam Smith, D . D . 	Philadelphia, 1783 . Anew
Ahiman Rezon was published by the Grand
Lodge of Pe nn sylvania in 1825 .
2 . Charges and Regulations of the Ancient
AHIMAN 	39
and Honorable Society of Free and Accepted
Masons, extracted from the Ahiman Rezon, etc .
Published by the consent and direction of the
Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia . 	Halifax, 1786 .
3 . The New Ahiman Rezon, containing the
Laws and Constitution of Virginia, etc . By
John K . Reade, present Deputy Grand Master of
Virginia, etc . 	Richmond, 1791 . Another edi-
tion was published in 1818, by James Hen-
derson .
4 . The Maryland Ahiman Rezon of Free
and Accepted Masons, containing the History
• Masonry from the establishment of the Grand
Lodge to the present time ; with their Ancient
Charges, Addresses, Prayers, Lectures, Pro-
logues, Epilogues, Songs, etc ., collected from the
Old Records, Faithful Traditions and Lodge
Books ; by G . Keating . Compiled by order of
the Grand Lodge of Maryland . 	Baltimore,
1797 .
5 . The Ahiman Rezon and Masonic Ritual,
published by the order of the Grand Lodge of
North Carolina and Tennessee . 	Newbern,
N . C ., 1805 .
6 . An Ahiman Rezon, for the use of the
Grand Lodge of South Carolina, Ancient York
Masons, and the Lodges under the Register and
Masonic Jurisdiction thereof . Compiled and
arranged with considerable additions, at the
request of the Grand Lodge, and published by
their authority . By Brother Frederick Dalcho,
M .D ., etc . 	Charleston, S . C ., 1807 . A second
edition was published by the same author, in
1822, and a third, in 1852, by Dr . Albert G .
Mackey . In this third edition, the title was
changed to that of The Ahiman Rezon, orBook
• Constitutions, etc . 	And the work was in a
great measure expurgated of the peculiarities
of Dermott, and made to conform more closely
to the Andersonian Constitutions . 	A fourth
edition was published by the same editor,
in 1871, in which everything antagonistic to
the original Book of Constitutions has been
omitted .
7 . The Freemason's Library and General
Ahiman Rezon ; containing a delineation of the
true principles of Freemasonry, etc . ; by Sam-
uel Cole . 	Baltimore, 1817 . 8vo, 332 + 92
pp . 	There was a second edition in 1826 .
8 . Ahiman Rezon ; 	prepared under the
direction of the Grand Lodge of Georgia ; by
Wm . S . Rockwell, Grand Master of Masons
• Georgia . 	Savannah, 1859 . 4to and 8vo,
404 pp . 	But neither this work nor the third
and fourth editions of the Ahiman Rezon of
South Carolina have any connection in prin-
ciple or theory with the Ahiman Rezon of
Dermott . 	They have borrowed the name
from the " Ancient Masons," but they derive
all their law and their authorities from the
" Moderns," or the legal Masons of the last
century .
9 . The General Ahiman Rezon and Free-
mason's Guide, 	by 	Daniel Sickles . 	New
York, 1866 . 8vo, pp . 408 . This book like
Rockwell's, has no other connection with the
archetypal work of Dermott but the name .
Many of the Grand Lodges of the United
States having derived their existence and

40 	AHIMAN
authority from the Dermott Grand Lodge,
the influence of his Ahiman Rezon was for a
long time exercised over the Lodges of this
country ; and, indeed, it is only within a com-
paratively recent period that the true prin-
ciples of Masonic law, as expounded in the
first editions of Anderson's Constitutions,
have been universally adopted among Ameri-
can Masons .
It must, however, be observed, in justice to
Dermott, -who has been rather too grossly
abused by Mitchell and a few other writers,
that the innovations upon the old laws of
Masonry, which are to be found in the Ahiman
Rezon, are for the most part not to be charged
upon him, but upon Dr . Anderson himself,
who, for the first time, introduced them into
the second edition of the Book of Constitu-
tions, published in 1738 . It is surprising, and
accountable only on the ground of sheer care-
lessness on the part of the supervising com-
mittee, that the Grand Lodge should, in 1738,
have approved of these alterations made by
Anderson, and still more surprising that it was
not until 1756 that a new or third edition of
the Constitutions should have been published,
in which these alterations of 1738 were ex-
punged, and the old regulations and the old
language restored . But whatever may have
been the causes of this oversight, it is not to be
doubted that, at the time of the formation of
the Grand Lodge of the Ancients, the edition
of the Book of Constitutions of 1738 was con-
sidered as the authorized exponent of Masonic
law by the original or regular Grand Lodge of
England, and was adopted, with but little
change, by Dermott as the basis of his Ahiman
Rezon . How much this edition of 1738
differed from that of 1723, which is now con-
sidered the only true authority for ancient
law, and how much it agreed with Dermott's
Ahiman Rezon, will be evident from the fol-
lowing specimens of the first of the Old
Charges, correctly taken from each of the
three works :
First of the Old Charges in the Book of Con-
stitutions, edit ., 1723 .
" A Mason is obliged by his tenure to obey
the moral law ; and if he rightly understands
the Art, he will never be a stupid Atheist, nor
an irreligious libertine . But though in ancient
times Masons were charged, in every country,
to be of the religion of that country or nation,
whatever it was, yet it is now thought more
expedient only to oblige them to that religion
in which all men agree, leaving their particular
opinions to themselves ; that is to be good men
and true, or men of honour and honesty, by
whatever denominations or persuasions they
may be distinguished ; whereby Masonry be-
comes the centre of union, and the means of
conciliating true friendship among persons
that must have remained at a perpetual dis-
tance ."
First of the Old Charges in the Book of
Constitutions, edit ., 1738 .
" A Mason is obliged by his tenure to ob-
serve the moral law, as a true Noachida ; and
if he rightly understands .the Craft, he will
AID
never be a stupid Atheist, nor an irreligious
libertine, nor act against conscience .
" In antient times, the Christian Masons
were charged to comply with the Christian
usages of each country where they travelled or
worked . But Masonry being found in all na-
tions, even of divers religions, they are now only
charged to adhere to that religion in which all
men agree, (leaving each brother to his own
particular opinions ;) that is, to be good men
and true, men of honour and honesty, by
whatever names, religions, or persuasions they
may be distinguished ; for they all agree in the
three great articles of Noah enough to preserve
the cement of the Lodge . Thus, Masonry is the
center of their union, and the happy means of
conciliating persons that otherwise must have
remained at a perpetual distance ."
First of the Old Charges in Dermott's
Ahiman Rezon .
" A Mason is obliged by his tenure to ob-
serve the moral law, as a true Noachida ; and
if he rightly understands the Craft, he will
never be a stupid Atheist, nor an irreligious
libertine, nor act against conscience .
" In ancient times, the Christian Masons
were charged to comply with the Christian
usages of each country where they travelled or
worked ; being found in all nations, even of
divers religions .
" They are generally charged to adhere to
that religion in which all men agree, (leaving
each brother to his own particular opinions ;)
that is, to be good men and true, men of
honour and honesty, by whatever names, re-
ligions, or persuasions they may be distin-
guished ; for they all agree in the three great
articles of Noah enough to preserve the cement
of the Lodge .
" Thus Masonry is the center of their union,
and the happy means of conciliating persons
that otherwise must have remained at a per-
petual distance ."
The italics in the second and third extracts
will show what innovations Anderson made,
in 1738, on the Charges as originally pub-
lished in 1723, and how closely Dermott fol-
lowed him in adopting these innovations .
There is, in fact, much less difference between
the Ahiman Rezon of Dermott and Anderson's
edition of the Book of Constitutions, printed
in 1738, than there is between the latter and
the first edition of the Constitutions, printed
in 1723 . But the great points of difference
between the " Ancients " and the " Moderns,"
points which kept them apart for so man y
years, are to be found in their work and ritual,
for an account of which the reader is referred
to the article Ancient Masons . 	[E . L . H .]
Ahisar . 	See Achishar .
Ahollab . 	A skilful artificer of the tribe
of Dan, who was appointed, together with
Bezaleel, to construct the tabernacle in the
wilderness and the ark of the covenant .
(Exodus xxxi . 6 .) He is referred to in the
Royal Arch degree of the English and Ameri-
can systems .
Aid and Assistance . 	The duty of aiding
and assisting, not only all worthy distressed

AID
Master Masons, but their widows and orphans
also, "wheresoever dispersed over the face of
the globe," is one of the most im p ortant
obligations that is imposed upon every brother
of the " mystic tie " by the whole scope and
tenor of the Masonic Institution . The regu-
lations for the exercise of this duty are few,
but rational . In the first place, a Master
Mason who is in distress has a greater claim,
under equal circumstances, to the aid and
assistance of his brother, than one who, being
in the Order, has not attained that degree, or
who is altogether a profane . This is strictly
in accordance with the natural instincts of the
human heart, which will always prefer a
friend to a stranger, or, as it is rather ener-
getically expressed in the language of Long
Tom Coffin, " a messmate before a shipmate,
a shipmate before a stranger, and a stranger
before a dog " ; and it is also strictly in ac-
cordance with the teaching of the Apostle of
the Gentiles, who has said : " As we have
therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all
men, es p ecially unto them who are of the
household of faith ." (Galatians vi . 10 .)
But this exclusiveness is only to be prac-
tised under circumstances which make a se-
lection imperatively necessary . Where the
granting of relief to the profane would inca-
p acitate us from granting similar relief to our
brother, then must the preference be given
to him who is " of the household ." But the
earliest symbolic lessons of the ritual teach
the Mason not to restrict his benevolence
within the narrow limits of the Fraternity,
but to acknowledge the claims of all men who
need it, to assistance . Inwood has beauti-
fully said : " The humble condition both of
property and dress, of penury and want, in
which you were received into the Lodge, should
make you at all times sensible of the distresses
of poverty, and all you can spare from the call
of nature and the due care of your families,
should only remain in your possessions as a
ready sacrifice to the necessities of an un-
fortunate, distressed brother . Let the dis-
tressed cottage feel the warmth of your
Masonic zeal, and, if possible, exceed even
the unabating ardour of Christian charity . At
your approach let the orphan cease to weep,
and in the sound of your voice let the widow
forget her sorrow ." 	(Sermons, p . 18 .)
Another restriction laid upon this duty of
aid and assistance by the obligations of Ma-
sonry is, that the giver shall not be lavish
beyond his means in the disposition of his
benevolence . What he bestows must be such
as he can give " without material injury to
himself or family ." No man should wrong
his wife or children that he may do a benefit
to a stranger, or even to a brother . The ob-
ligations laid on a Mason to grant aid and
assistance to the needy and distressed seem
to be in the following gradations : first, to his
family ; next, to his brethren ; and, lastly, to
the world at large .
So far this subject has been viewed in a
general reference to that spirit of kindness
which should actuate all men, and which it
AID 	41
is the object of Masonic teaching to impress
on the mind of every Mason as a common duty
of humanity, and whose disposition Masonry
only seeks to direct and guide . But there is
another aspect in which this subject may be
considered, namely, in that peculiar and tech-
nical one of Masonic aid and assistance due
from one Mason to another . Here there is a
duty declared, and a correlative right inferred ;
for if it is the duty of one Mason to assist
another, it follows that every Mason has the
right to claim that assistance from his brother .
It is this duty that the obligations of Ma-
sonry are especially intended to enforce ; it is
this right that they are intended to sustain .
The symbolic ritual of Maso nry which refers,
as, for instance, in the First Degree, to the
virtue of benevolence, refers to it in the gen-
eral sense of a virtue which all men should
practise . But when the Mason reaches the
Third Degree, he discovers new obligations
which restrict and define the exercise of this
duty of aid and assistance . So far as his
obligations control him, the Mason, as a Ma-
son, is not legally bound to extend his aid
beyond the just claimants in his own Fra-
ternity . To do good to all men is, of course,
inculcated and recommended ; to do good to
the household is enforced and made com-
pulsory by legal enactment and sanction .
Now, as there is here, on one side, a duty,
and on the other side a right, it is proper to
inquire what are the regulations or laws by
which this duty is controlled and this right
maintained .
The duty to grant and the right to claim
relief Masonically is recognized in the follow-
ing passage of the Old Charges of 1722 :
"But if you discover him to be a true and
genuine Brother, you are to respect him ac-
cordingly ; and if he is in want, you must re-
lieve him if you can, or else direct him how he
may be relieved . You must employ him some
days, or else recommend him to be employed .
But you are not charged to do beyond your
ability ; only to prefer a poor brother, that is a
good man and true, before any other poor
people in the same circumstances ."
This written law agrees in its conditions and
directions, so far as it goes, with the unwritten
law of the Order, and from the two we may
deduce the following principles :
1 . The applicant must be a Master Mason .
In 1722, the charitable benefits of Masonry
were extended, it is true, to Entered Appren-
tices, and an Apprentice was recognized, in
the language of the law, as " a true and genu-
ine brother ." But this was because at that
time only the First Degree was conferred in
subordinate Lodges, Fellow-Crafts and Master
Masons being made in the Grand Lodge .
Hence the great mass of the Fraternity con-
sisted of Apprentices, and many Masons never
proceeded any further . But the Second and
Third Degrees are now always conferred in
subordinate Lodges, and very few initiates
voluntarily stop short of the Master's Degree .
Hence the mass of the Fraternity now con-
sists of Master Masons, and the law which

42 	AITCHISON'S
formerly applied to Apprentices is, under our
present organization, made applicable only to
those who have become Master Masons .
2 . The applicant must be worthy . We are
to presume that every Mason is " a good man
and true " until a Lodge has pronounced to
the contrary . Every Mason who is " in good
standing," that is, who is a regularly contrib-
uting member of a Lodge, is to be considered
as " worthy," in the technical sense of the
term . An expelled, a suspended, or a non-
affiliated Mason does not meet the required
condition of " a regularly contributing mem-
ber ." 	Such a Mason is therefore not
" worthy," and is not entitled to Masonic
assistance .
3 . The giver is not expected to exceed his
ability in the amount of relief . The written
law says, " you are not charged to do beyond
your ability " ; the ritual says, that your
relief must be " without material injury to
yourself or family ." The principle is the same
in both .
4 . The widow and orphans of a Master
Mason have the claim of the husband and
father extended to them . The written law
says nothing explicitly on this point, but the
unwritten or ritualistic law expressly declares
that it is our duty "to contribute to the relief
of a worthy, distressed brother, his widow and
orphans ."
5 . And lastly, in granting relief or assist-
ance, the Mason is to be preferred to the pro-
fane . He must be placed " before any other
poor people in the same circumstances ."
These are the laws which regulate the doc-
trine of Masonic aid and assistance . They are
often charged by the enemies of Masonry with
a spirit of exclusiveness . But it has been shown
that they are in accordance with the exhorta-
tion of the Apostle, who would do good " es-
pecially to those who are of the household,"
and they have the warrant of the law of na-
ture ; for everyone will be ready to say, with
that kindest-hearted of men, Charles Lamb,
" I can feel for all indifferently, but I cannot
feel for all alike . I can be a friend to a worthy
man, who, upon another account, cannot be
my mate or fellow . I cannot like all people
alike ." And so as Masons, while we should be
charitable to all persons in need or in distress,
there are only certain ones who can claim the
aid and assistance of the Order, or of its dis-
ciples, under the positive sanction of Masonic
law .
Aitchison's - Haven Lodge (also spelled
Atcheson, Achison ) . 	This was one of the
oldest Operative Lodges consenting to the for-
mation of the Grand Lodge of Scotland in
1736 . The age of this Lodge, like many or
most of the oldest Lodges of Scotland, is not
known . Some of its members signed the St .
Clair Charters in 1600-1601 . The place of
its meeting (Aitchison-Haven) is no longer on
the map, but was in the county of Midlothian .
The origin of the town was from a charter of
James V ., dated 1526, and probably the Lodge
dated near that period . Aitchison's-Haven
was probably the first meeting-place, but they
AIX-LA-CHAPELLE
seem to have met at Musselburgh at a later
period .
Lyon, in his History of the Lodge of Edin-
burgh, speaks of trouble in the Grand Quar-
terly communication respecting representa-
tives from this Lodge when (May, 1737) it was
" agreed that Atcheson's Haven be deleted
out of the books of the Grand Lodge, and no
more called on the rolls of the Clerk's highest
peril ." It was restored to the roll in 1814, but
becoming dormant, it was finally cut off in
1866 . The Lodge of Edinburgh has long en-
joyed the distinction of having the oldest pre-
served Lodge minute, which dated July, 1599 .
Just recently Bro . R . E . Wallace-James has
brought to light a minute-book bearing this
title : The Buik of the Actis and Ordinans of
the Nobile Maisteris and fellows of Craft of the
Ludg of Aitchison's heavine, and contains a
catalogue of the names of the fellows of Craft
that are presently in the Zeir of God 1598 .
The first page of this rare book bears in a
bold hand the date, " 1598 ."
The minute is as follows :
The IX day of Januerie the Zeir of God
upon ye quhilk day Robert Widderspone was
maid fellow of Craft in ye presens of Wilzam
Aytone Elder, Johne Fender being Warden,
Johne Pedden Thomas Pettencrief John Cra-
furd George Aytone Wilzame Aytone younger
Hendrie Petticrief all fellowis of Craft upon
ve quhilk day he chois George Aytone Johne
Pedden to be his intenders and instructouris
and also ye said Robert hes payit his xx sh .
and his gluffis to everie Maister as efferis . See
vol . xxiv ., Trans . Quat . Cor . Lodge . [E . E . C .]
Aitchison's-Haven Manuscript . 	One of
the " Old Charges," or records of Masonry
now in the custody of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, formerly preserved in the archives
of the Aitchison-Haven Lodge, which met at
Musselburgh in Scotland . The MS . is en-
grossed in the minute-book of Aitchison-
Haven Lodge . The writer attests to his tran-
scription in the following manner : " Insert by
me undersub and the 19" of May, 1666, Jo .
Auchinleck, clerk to the Masones of Achi-
sones Lodge ."
It has been reproduced (with 24 lines in fac-
simile) by D . Murray Lyon in his History of
the Lodge of Edinburgh .
Aix-la-Chapelle . 	(In German, Aachen .)
A city of Germany, remarkable in Masonic
history for a persecution which took place in
the eighteenth century, and of which Gadicke
(Freimaur . Lex .) gives the following account :
In the year 1779, Ludwig Grienemann, a
Dominican monk, delivered a course of Lenten
sermons, in which he attempted to prove that
the Jews who crucified Christ were Freema-
sons, that Pilate and Herod were Wardens in a
Mason's Lodge, that Judas, previous to his
betrayal of his Master, was initiated into the
Order, and that the thirty pieces of silver,
which he is said to have returned, was only the
fee which he paid for his initiation . Aix-la-
Chapelle being a Roman Catholic city, the
magistrates were induced, by the influence of

AKIROP
Grienemann, to issue a decree, in which they
declared that anyone who should permit a
meeting of the Freemasons in his house should,
for the first offense, be fined 100 florins, for
the second 200, and for the third, be banished
from the city . The mob became highly in-
censed against the Masons, and insulted all
whom they suspected to be members of the
Order . At length Peter Schuff, a Capuchin,
jealous of the influence which the Dominican
Grienemann was exerting, began also, with
augmented fervor, to preach against Free-
masonry, and still more to excite the popular
commotion . In this state of affairs, the Lodge
at Aix-la-Chapelle applied to the princes and
Masonic Lodges in the neighboring territories
for assistance and protection, which were im-
mediately rendered . A letter in French was
received by both priests, in which the writer,
who stated that he was one of the former dig-
nitaries of the Order, strongly reminded them
of their duties, and, among other things, said
that " many priests a pope, several cardinals,
bishops, and even 'Dominican and Capuchin
monks, had been, and still were, members of
the Order ." Although this remonstrance had
some effect peace was not altogether re-
stored until the neighboring free imperial
states threatened that they would prohibit
the monks from collecting alms in their terri-
tories unless they ceased to excite the popular
commotion against the Freemasons .
Akirop . The name given, in the ritual of
the Ancient and Accepted Rite, to one of the
ruffians celebrated in the legend of the Third
Degree . The word is said in the ritual to sig-
nify an assassin . It might probably be de-
rived from ]1'r), KaRaB, to assault or join battle ;
but is just as probably a word so corrupted by
long oral transmission that its etymology can
no longer be traced . (See Abiram .)
Alabama . On August 29, 1811, while
Alabama was yet a part of Mississippi Terri-
tory, the Grand Lodge of Kentucky granted a
dispensation for Madison Lodge, No . 21, in
Madison County . On August 28, 1812, a
Charter was granted to this Lodge, locating it
at Huntsville, and was issued the same day,
and the Master was installed in Grand Lodge .
When the Territory was divided and Mis-
sissippi admitted into the Union in 1817, the
Grand Lodge of Mississippi had not been or-
ganized, so that it never claimed jurisdiction
outside of that State, and this Lodge remained
under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
Kentucky until the Grand Lodge of Alabama
was formed .
The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Tennessee granted dispensations for Lodges
in Alabama, as follows : Alabama Lodge, No .
21, at Huntsville, April 6, 1818 ; Washington
Lodge at Hazel Green, in 1818 ; Rising Virtue
Lodge at Tuscaloosa, in 1819 ; Halo Lodge at
Cahawba, April 4, 1820 ; Moulton Lodge at
Moulton May 4, 1820 ; Franklin Lodge at
Russellville, October 3, 1820 ; Tuscumbia
Lodge at Courtland, March 3, 1821 ; and Far-
rar Lodge at Elyton, March 5, 1821 . Charters
were granted to Alabama and Washington
ALARM 	43
Lodges, October 6, 1818 ; to Rising Virtue
Lodge, October 5, 1819 ; and to Moulton,
October 3, 1820 .
A convention to organize a Grand Lodge
was held at Cahawba, June 1, 1821, and was
in session five days .
The constitution, dated June 14, 1821, was
published by itself ; it was signed by the
Grand Officers and the Representatives of
nine Lodges, viz . : Madison Lodge, Alabama
Lodge at Huntsville, Alabama Lodge at Clai-
borne, Rising Virtue Lodge, Halo Lodge,
Moulton Lge, Russellville Lodge, U . D .,
Farrar Lodge, U . D ., and St . Stephens Lodge .
Thomas W . Farrar was elected Grand Mas-
ter and Thomas A . Rogers Grand Secretary .
The Grand Chapter of Alabama was organ-
ized on the 2d of June, 1827, at the town of
Tuscaloosa, and at the same time and place a
Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters
was established .
On the 27th of October, 1860, Sir Knt .
B . B . French, Grand Master of the Grand
Encampment of the United States, issued his
mandate for the formation of a Grand Com-
mandery of Alabama .
Alapa . 	A Latin word signifying " a blow
on the cheek with the open hand .' Such a
blow was given by the master to his manu-
mitted slave as a symbol of manumission, and
as a reminder that it was the last unrequited
indignity which he was to receive . Hence in
medieval times, the same word was applied
to the blow inflicted on the cheek of the newly
created knight by the sovereign who created
him, with the same symbolic signification .
This was sometimes represented by the blow
on the shoulder with the flat of a sword, which
has erroneously been called the accolade . (See
Knighthood .)
Alarm . 	The verb "to alarm" signifies,
in Freemasonry, " to give notice of the ap-
proach of some one desiring admission ." Thus,
" to alarm the Lodge" is to inform the Lodge
that there is some one without who is seeking
entrance . As a noun, the word " alarm " has
two significations . 1 . An alarm is a warning
given by the Tiler, or other appropriate officer,
by which he seeks to communicate with the
interior of the Lodge or Chapter . In this sense
the expression so often used, " an alarm at the
door,' simply signifies that the officer outside
has given notice of his desire to communi-
cate with the Lodge . 2 . An alarm is also the
peculiar mode in which this notice is to be
given . 	In modern Masonic works, the num-
ber of knocks given in an alarm is generally
expressed by musical notes . Thus, three dis-
tinct knocks would be designated thus, 	d
M M, etc . The word comes
from
m
the French " alarme," which in turn
comes from the Italian " all'arme," literally a
cry " to arms," uttered by sentinels surprised
by the enemy . The legal meaning of to alarm
is not to frighten, but to make one aware of the
and three knocks three times repeated thus,
two rapid and two slow ones thus,

44 	ALASKA
necessity of defense or protection . And this
is precisely the Masonic signification of the
word .
Alaska . 	Masonry in regular form was in-
troduced into Alaska by the establishment of
Gastineaux Lodge, No . 124, at Douglass, late
in 1904, under a warrant from the Grand
Lodge of Washington . This was followed by
Anvil Lodge, No . 140, at Nome ; Mount Tu-
neau, No . 147, at Tuneau ; Tanan, No . 162,
at Fairbanks ; Valdez, No . 168, at Valdez ; and
Mount McKinley, No . 183, at Cordova ; all
under warrants from the same Grand Lodge .
[W . J . A .]
Alban, St . (See Saint Alban .)
Alberta (Canada) . This Grand Lodge was
established in 1905, and in 1910 had 34
Lodges and 2,380 brethren under its jurisdic-
tion .
Albertus Magnus . 	A scholastic philoso-
pher of the Middle Ages, of great erudition,
but who had among the vulgar the reputation
of being a magician . He was born at Lauin-
gen, in Swabia, in 1205, of an illustrious family,
his subtitle being that of Count of Bollstadt .
He studied at Padua, and in 1223 entered
the Order of the Dominicans . In 1249, he
became head-master of the school at Co-
logne . In 1260, Pope Alexander VI . con-
ferred upon him the bishopric of Ratisbon .
In 1262, he resigned the episcopate and re-
turned to Cologne, and, devoting himself to
philosophic pursuits for the remainder of his
life, died there in 1280 . His writings were very
voluminous, the edition published at Lyons,
in 1651, amounting to twenty-one large folio
volumes . Albertus has been connected with
the Operative Masonry of the Middle Ages
because he has been supposed by many to have
been the real inventor of the German Gothic
style of architecture . Heideloff, in his Bau-
hiitte des Mittelalters, says that " he recalled
into life the symbolic language of the ancients,
which had so long lain dormant, and adapted
it to suit architectural forms ." The Masons
accepted his instructions, and adopted in con-
sequence that system of symbols which was
secretly communicated only to the members of
their own body, and served even as a medium
of intercommunication . He is asserted to
have designed the plan for the construction of
the Cathedral of Cologne, and to have altered
the Constitution of the Masons, and to have
given to them a new set of laws .
Albrecht, Heinrich Christoph . A Ger-
man author, who published at Hamburg, in
1792, the first and only part of a work entitled
Materialen zu einer critischen Geschichte der
Freimaurerei, i . e ., Collections towards a Criti-
cal History of Freemasonry . Moss says that
this was one of the first attempts at a clear and
rational history of the Order . Unfortunately,
the author never completed his task, and only
the first part of the work ever appeared . Al-
brecht was the author also of another work
entitled GeheimeGeschichte eines Rosenkreuzers,
or Secret History of a Rosicrucian, and of a
series of papers which appeared in the Berlin
Archiv . der Zeit, containing " Notices of Free-
ALDWORTH
masonry In the first half of the Sixteenth
Century ." 	Albrecht adopted the theory
first advanced by the Abbe Grandidier, that
Freemasonry owes its origin to the Steinmetzen
of Germany .
Alchemy . 	The Neo-Platonicians intro-
duced at an early period of the Christian era
an apparently new science, which they called
Mar-414n fhpd, . or the Sacred Science, which
materially influenced the subsequent condition
of the arts and sciences . In the fifth century
arose, as the name of the science, alchemia,
derived from the Arabic definite article al
being added to chemia, a Greek word used in
Diocletian's decree against Egyptian works
treating of the X,tgta or transmutation of
metals ; the word seems simply to mean " the
Egyptian Art," Xngta, or the land of black earth
being the Egyptian name for Egypt, and
Julius Firmicius, in a work On the Influence of
the Stars upon the Fate of Man, uses the phrase
" scientia alchemiae ." 	From this time the
study of alchemy was openly followed . In
the Middle Ages, and up to the end of the sev-
enteenth century, it was an important science,
studied by some of the most distinguished phi-
losophers, such as Avicenna, Albertus Magnus,
Raymond Lulli, Roger Bacon, Elias Ashmole,
and many others .
Alchemy-called also the Hermetic Philos-
ophy, because it is said to have been first
taught in Egypt by Hermes Trismegistus .
Freemasonry and alchemy have sought the
same results (the lesson of Divine Truth and
the doctrine of immortal life), and they have
both sought it by the same method of sym-
bolism . It is not, therefore, strange that in
the eighteenth century, and perhaps before,
we find an incorporation of much of the science
of alchemy into that of Freemasonry . Her-
metic rites and Hermetic degrees were com-
mon, and their relics are still to be found exist-
ing in degrees which do not absolutely trace
their origin to alchemy, but which show some of
its traces in their rituals . The Twenty-eighth
Degree of the Scottish Rite, or the Knight of
the Sun, is entirely a Hermetic degree, and
claims its parentage in the title of " Adept of
Masonry," by which it is sometimes known .
Aldworth, the Hon . Mrs . 	This lady ;
who is well known as " the Lady Freemason,'
was the Hon . Elizabeth St . Leger, daughter
of Lord Doneraile of Doneraile Court, Co .
Cork, Ireland . She was born in 1693, and mar-
ried in 1713 to Richard Aldworth, Esq ., of
Newmarket Court, Co . Cork . There appears
to be no doubt that while a girl she received
the First and Second degrees of Freemasonry
in Ireland, but of the actual circ um stances of
her initiation several different accounts have
been given .
Of these the most authentic appears to be
one issued at Cork, with the authority of the
family, in 1811, and afterward republished in
London .
From this it appears that her father, Vis-
count Doneraile, together with his sons and
a few friends, was accustomed to open a Lodge
and carry on the ordinary ceremonies at Don-


ALDWORTH
eraile Court, and it was during one of these I
meetings that the occurrence took place which
is thus related :
" It happened on this particular occasion
that the Lodge was held in a room separated
from another, as is often the case, by stud and
brickwork . 	The y oung lad y , being giddy and
thoughtless and determined to gratify her cur-
iosity, made her arrangements accordingly,
and, with a pair of scissors, (as she herself re-
lated to the mother of our informant) re-
moved a portion of a brick from the wall, and
placed herself so as to command a full view of
eve ryt hing which occurred in the next room ;
so placed, she witnessed the two first degrees
in Masonr y , which was the extent of the pro-
ceedings of the Lodge on that night . Becom-
ing aware, from what she heard, that the
brethren were about to separate, for the first
time she felt tremblingly alive to the awk-
wardness and danger of her situation, and
began to consider how she could retire without
observation . 	She became nervous and agi-
tated and nearly fainted, but so far recovered
herself as to be fully aware of the necessity of
withdrawing as quickly as p ossible ; in the act
of doing so, bein g in the dark, she stumbled
against and overthrew something, said to be a
chair or some ornamental p iece of furniture .
The crash was loud ; and the Tiler, who was
on the lobby or landing on which the doors
both of the Lodge room and that where the
Honorable Miss St . Leger was, opened, gave
the alarm, burst open the door and, with a
light in one hand and a drawn sword in the
other, appeared to the now terrified and faint-
ing lady . 	He was soon joined by the members
of the Lodge present, and luckily ; for it is as-
serted that but for the prompt appearance of
her brother,* Lord Doneraile, and other steady
members, her life would have fallen a sacrifice
to what was then esteemed her crime . 	The
first care of his Lordship was to resuscitate
the unfortunate lady without alarming the
house, and endeavor to learn from her an ex-
planation of what had occurred ; having done
so, many of the members being furious at the
transaction, she was placed under guard of
the Tiler and a member, in the room where she
was found . 	The members reassembled and
deliberated as to what, under the circum-
stances was to be done, and over two long
hours sbe could hear the angry discussion and
her death deliberately proposed and seconded .
At length the good sense of the majority suc-
ceeded in calmin g , in some measure, the angry
and irritated feelings of the rest of the mem-
bers, when, of ter much had been said and many
things proposed, it was resolved to give her the
o p tion of submitting to the Masonic ordeal to
the extent she had witnessed, (Fellow Craft,)
and if she refused, the brethren were again to
consult . Being waited on to decide, Miss St .
Leger, exhausted and terrified by the stormi-
ness of the debate, which she could not avoid
* This is a mistake ; her father, the first Lord
Doneraile did not die until 1727, when his
daughter had been married for fourteen years .
ALEXANDER 	4 5
partiall y hearing, and yet, notwithstanding
all, with a secret p leasure, gladly and unhes-
itatingly accepted the offer . 	She was ac-
cordingly initiated ."
A very different account is given in the
Freemason's Quarterly Review for 1839 (p . 322)
being reprinted from the Cork Standard of
May 29, 1839 .
According to this story Mrs . Aldworth was
seized with curiosity about the mysteries of
Freemasonry and set herself to discover them ;
so she made friends with the landlady of an
inn in Cork in which a Lodge used to meet,
and with her connivance was concealed in a
clockcase which was placed in the Lodge room ;
however, she was unable to endure the discom-
fort of her confinement in such narrow quar-
ters and betrayed herself b y a scream, on which
she was discovered by the members of the
Lodge and then and there initiated .
It will be observed that accordin g to this ver-
sion the lady was already married before she
was initiated . The story is said to be sup-
ported by the testimon y of two members of
Lodge 71, at Cork, in which Lod g e the initia-
tion is said to have taken place ; this, however,
can hardl y be correct, for that Lodge did not
meet at Cork until 1777, whereas, Mrs . Aid-
worth died in 1773 .
If, however, the commoner version of the
story is preferred, according to which Miss
St . Leger was initiated as a young girl then
the occurrence must have taken 	ace before
her marriage in 1713, and therefore before the
establishment of Grand Lodges and the in-
troduction of warranted and numbered Lodges
and it is therefore a p roof of the existence oI
at least one Lod g e of Speculative Masons in
Ireland at an early period .
After her marriage Mrs . Aldworth seems to
have kept up her connection with the Craft,
for her portrait in Masonic clothing, her apron
and jewels, are still in existence, and her name
occurs among the subscribers to Dassigny's
Enquiry of 1744 • and it has even been stated
that she presided as Master of her Lodge .
The story has been fully discussed by Bros .
Conder, Crawley, and others in the eighth vol-
ume (1895) of the Transactions of the Quatuor
Coronati Lodge of London, to which the curi-
ous are referred for further information .
[E . L . H .)
Alethophilote, Lover of Truth . 	Given
by Thory as the Fifth Degree of the Order of
African Architects . (Acts Latomorum, i ., 292 .)
Alexander I ., Emperor of Russia . 	Alex-
ander I . succeeded Paul I . in the year 1801
and immediately after his accession renewed
the severe prohibitions of his predecessor
against all secret societies, and especially Free-
masonry . 	In 1803, M . Boeber, counselor
of state and director of the military school at
St . Petersburg, resolved to remove, if possible,
from the mind of the Emperor the prejudices
which he had conceived against the Order .
Accordingly, in an audience which he had so-
licited and obtained, he described the object
of the Institution and the doctrine of its mya-
teries in such a way as to lead the Emperor to

46 	ALEXANDRIA
rescind the obnoxious decrees, and to add these
words : "What you have told me of the In-
stitution not only induces me to grant it my
protection and patronage, but even to ask for
initiation into its mysteries . Is this possible
to be obtained? " 	M . Boeber replied : "Sire
I cannot myself re p ly to the question . But I
will call together the Masons of your capital
and make your Majesty's desire known ; and
I have no doubt that they will be eager to
comply with your wishes ." Accordingly Alex-
ander was soon after initiated, and the Grand
Orient of all the Russias was in consequence
established, of which M . Boeber was elected
Grand Master . 	(Acts Latomorum, i ., 218 .)
O
Alexandria, School of . 	When Alexander
built the city of Alexandria in Egypt, with the
intention of making it the seat of his empire,
he invited thither learned men from all nations,
who brought with them their p eculiar notions .
The Alexandria School of Philosophy which
was thus established, by the commingling of
rientalists, Jews, Egyptians, and G reeks,
became eclectic in character, and exhibited a
heterogeneous mixture of the opinions of the
Egyptian priests, of the Jewish Rabbis of
Arabic teachers, and of the disciples of Plato
and P'thagoras . 	From this school we derive
Gnosticism and the Kabbala and, above all,
the system of symbolism and allegory which
lay at the foundation of the Masonic philos-
ophy . 	To no ancient sect, indeed, except
perhaps the Pythagoreans, have the Masonic
teachers been so much indebted for the sub-
stance of their doctrines, as well as the esoteric
method of communicating them as to that of
the School of Alexandria . 	Both Aristobulus
and Philo the two most celebrated chiefs of
this schoo'1, taught, although a century inter-
vened between their births, the same theory,
that the sacred writings of the Hebrews were,
b y their system of allegories, the true source
of all religious and philosopic doctrine, the
literal meaning of which alone was for the
common peo ple, the esoteric or hidden mean-
i ng~ being kept for the initiated . Freemasonry
still carries into practise the same theor y .
Alincourt, Francois d' . 	A French gen-
tleman, who, in the year 1776, was sent with
Don Oyres de Ornellas Pragao, a Portuguese
nobleman, to prison, by the governor of the
island of Madeira, for being Freemasons .
The were afterward sent to Lisbon, and con-
fine in a common jail for fourteen months,
where they would have perished had not the
Masons of Lisbon supported them, throw g h
whose intercession with Don Martimo de
Mello they were at last released . 	(Smith, Use
and Abuse of Freemasonry, p . 206 .)
Allah . 	(Assyrian (Fig . 1), ilu ; Aramaic,
'*ii, elah ; Hebrew, 't 'l{, dlbah .) 	The Arabic
name of God, derived from (Fig . 2) ildh, od
and the article (Fig . 3) al, expressing the
b y way of eminence . 	In the great profession
of the Unity, on which is founded the religion
of Islam, both terms are used, as, pronounced
" IA ilaha ill' Allah," there is no god but God,
the real meaning of the expression being,
" There is only one God ." Mohammed relates
ALLEGORY
that in his night journey from Mecca to Jeru-
salem, on ascending through the seven heav-
ens, he beheld above the throne of God this
formula ; 	and the green standard of the
(Fig . 1 .) 	(Fig . 2 .) 	(Fig . 3 .)
aJI, Si,Prophet was adorned with the mystic sentence .
It is the first phrase lisped by the infant, and
the devout Moslem utters the profession of the
faith at all times, in joy, in sorrow, in praise,
in prayer, in battle, and with his departing
S3355S	x 	~breath the words are wafted to heaven ; for
amon g the peculiar virtues of these words is
that they may be spoken without any motion
of the lips . 	The mourners on their way to the
grave continue the strain in melancholy tones .
Around the supreme name is clustered the
masbaha, or rosary, of the ninety-nine beauti-
ful names of God, which are often repeated by
the Mohammedan in his devotions .
[W . S . Paterson .)
Allegiance . 	Every Mason owes allegiance
to . the Lodge, Chapter, or other body of which
he is a member, and also to the Grand Lodge,
Grand Chapter or other supreme authority
from which that body has received its charter .
But this is not a divided allegiance . 	If, for
instance the edicts of a Grand and a Subor-
dinate Lodge conflict, there is no question
which is to be obeyed . 	Supreme or governing
bodies in Masonry claim and must receive a
paramount allegiance .
Allegory . 	A discourse or narrative in
which there is a literal and a figurative sense, a
patent and a concealed meanin g , the literal or
patent sense being intended, by analogy or
comparison, to indicate the figurative or con-
cealed one . Its derivation from the Greek,
IxAos and ayopslEu', to say something different,
that is, to stay something where the language is
one thing andthetruemeaninganother,exactly
expresses the character of an allegory . 	It has
been said that there is no essential difference
between an allegory and a symbol . There is
not in design, but there is in their character .
An allegory may be interpreted without any
p revious conventional agreement but a sym-
bol cannot . Thus, the legend of the Third De-
gree is an allegory, evidently to be interpreted
as teaching a restoration to life ; and this we
learn from the le g end itself, without any pre-
vious understanding . 	The sprig of acacia
is a symbol of the immortality of the soul .
But this we know onl y because such meaning
had been conventionally determined when the
symbol was first established . 	It is evident,
then that an allego ry whose meaning is ob-
scure is imperfect . The enigmatical meaning
should be easy of interpretation ; and hence

ALLIANCE
Lemikre, a French poe t, has said : " L'alle-
g orie habits un palais diaphane "-Allegory
lives in a transparent palace . All the legends
of Freemasonry are more or less allegorical,
and whatever truth there may be in some of
them in an historical point of view it is only as
allegories or legendary symbols that they are
of importance . 	The English lectures have
therefore very pro pe rly defined Freemasonry
to be " a system of morality veiled in allegory
and illustrated by symbols ."
The allegory was a favorite figure among
the ancients, and to the allegorizing spirit are
we to trace the construction of the entire
Greek and Roman mythology . 	Not less did
it prevail among the older Aryan nations, and
its abundant use is exhibited in the religions of
Brahma and Zoroaster . 	The Jewish Rabbis
were greatly addicted to it, and carried its
employment as Maimonides intimates (More
Nevochim, Ii I ., xliii .), sometimes to an excess .
Their Midrash or system of commentaries on
the sacred book, is almost altogether allegori-
cal . Aben Ezra, a learned Rabbi of the twelfth
century, says, " The Scriptures are like bodies,
and allegories are like the garments with which
the y are clothed . Some are thin like fine silk,
and others are coarse and thick like sack-
cloth ." Our Lord, to whom this spirit of the
Jewish teachers in his day was familiar, incul-
cated many truths in parables all of which
were allegories . The primitive Fathers of the
Christian Church were thus infected ; and
Origen (Epist . ad Dam .), who was especially
addicted to the habit, tells us that all the
Pagan philosophers should be read in this
a p irit : "hoc facere solemus q uando philoso-
phos legimus ." Of modern allegorizing writ-
ers, the most interesting to Masons are Lee,
the author of The Temple of Solomon por-
trayed by Scri ure Light, and John Bunyan,
who wrote So 	's Temple Spiritualized .
Alliance, Sacred . An organization of
twenty-one brethrenpossessing the ultimate
degree of the Scottish Rite formed id New
York, September 19, 1872, who assemble an-
nually on that day . 	One by one, in the due
course of time, this Assembly is to decrease
until the sad duty will devolve on some one to
banquet alone with twenty draped chairs and
covers occup ied by the imajpnary presence of
his fellows . It was instituted to commemorate
the breaking of a dead-lock in the close cor-
poration of the Supreme Council by the ad-
mission of four very prominent members of
the Fraternity .
Allied Masonic Degrees . 	A bod y has
been formed in England called the Grand
Council of the Allied Masonic D egrees , in
order to govern various Degrees or Orders hav-
in* no central authority of their own . 	The
rmcipal degrees controlled by it are those of
9t . Lawrence the Martyr, )Knight of Constan-
tinople, Grand Tiler of Fing Solomon, Secret
Monitor, Red Cross of Babylon, and Grand
High Priest, besides a large number, perhaps
about fift , of "side degrees," of which some
are actively worked and some are not .
Allooutlon . 	The address of the presiding
ALL-SEEING 	4 7
officer of a Su p reme Council of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite is sometimes so
called . It was first used by the Council for
the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States,
and is derived from the usage of the Roman
Church, where certain addresses of the Pope to
the Cardinals are called allocutions, and - this
is to be traced to the customs of Pagan Rome,
where the harangues of the Generals to their
soldiers were called allocutions .
Allowed . 	In the old manuscript Consti-
tutions, this word is found in the now unusual
sense of " accepted ." Thus, " Every Mason
of the Craft that is Mason allowed, ye shall do
to him as ye would be done unto yourself ."
(Lansdowne MS ., circa 1600 .) Mason allowed
means Mason accepted, that is, approved . Phil-
lips, in his New World of Words (1690), de-
fines the verb allow, " to g~ ve or grant ; to ap-
prove of ; to permit or suffer ." Latimer, in one
of his sermons, uses it in this sense of a p prov-
ing or acce p ting, thus : " St . Peter, in forsak-
mg his old boat and nets was allowed as much
before God as if he had forsaken all the riches
in the world ." In a similar sense is the word
used in the Office of Public Baptism of In-
fants, in the Common Prayer-Book of the
Church of England .
All-Seeing Eye . . An important symbol of
the Supreme Being, borrowed by the Free-
masons from the nations of antiquity . Both
the Hebrews and the Egyptians a p pear to
have derived its use from that natural mclma-
tion of figurative minds to select an organ as
the symbol of the function which it is in-
tended peculiarly to discharge . 	Thus, the
foot was often adopted as the symbol of swift-
ness, the arm of strength, and the hand of
fidelity . 	On the same principle, the o pe n eye
was selected as the symbol of watchfulness,
and the eye of God as the symbol of Divine
watchfulness and care of the universe . 	The
use of the symbol in this sense is repeatedly to
be found in the Hebrew writers . 	Thus, the
Psalmist says (Ps . xxxiv . 15) : "The eyes of
the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears
are open unto their cry," which explains a
subsequent passage (Ps . cxxi . 4), in which it is
said : " Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall
neither slumber nor slee p . "
In the Apocr yp hal Book of the Conversa-
tion of God with Moses on Mount Sinai,
translated by the Rev . W . Cureton from an
Arabic MS . of the fifteenth century, and pub-
lished by the Philobiblon Society of London,
the idea of the eternal watchfulness of God is
thus beautifully alle g orized :
" Then Moses said to the Lord 0 Lord dost
thou sleep or not? The Lord said unto Noses,
I never 	eep : but take a cup and fill it with
water . Then Moses took a cup and filled it
with water, as the Lord commanded him .
Then the Lord cast into the heart of Moses the
breath of slumber ; so he slept, and the cup fell
from his hand, and the water which was
therein wasspilled . Then Moses awoke from
his sleep . 	Then said God to Moses, I declare
by my power, and by my glory, that if I were
to withdraw my providence from the heavens

48 	ALL-SOULS',
and the earth, for no longer a space of time
than thou hast slept, they would at once fall to
ruin and confusion, like as the cup fell from
thy hand ."
On the same principle, the Egyptians repre-
sented Osiris, their chief deity, by the symbol
of an open eye, and placed this hiero-
glyphic of him in all their temples . 	His
symbolic name, on the monuments, was repre-
sented by the eye accompanying a throne, to
which was sometimes added an abbreviated
figure of the god, and sometimes what has been
called a hatchet, but which may as correctly
be supposed to be a representation of a square .
The All-Seeing Eye may then be considered
as a symbol of God manifested in his omni-
presence-his guardian and preserving char-
acter-to which Solomon alludes in the Book
of Proverbs (xv . 3) when he says : "The eyes
of the Lord are in every place, beholding (or,
as in the Revised Version, keeping watch
upon) the evil and the good ." It is a symbol of
the Omnipresent Deity .
All-Souls' Day . 	The 2d of November .
A festival in the Romish Church for prayers in
behalf of all the faithful dead . 	It is kept as a
feast day by Chapters of Rose Croix .
Almanac, Masonic . 	Almanacs for the
special use of the Fraternity are annually
published in many countries of Europe, but
the custom has not extended to America . As
early as 1752 we find an Almanach des Francs-
Macons en Icosse published at The Hague .
This or a similar work, was continued to be
published annually at the same place until the
year 1778 . (Moss, Bibliographic, Nos . 107-9 .)
The first English work of the kind appeared in
1775, under the title of The Freemason's Cal-
endar, or an Almanac for the year 1775 con-
taining, besides an accurate and useful Gt alen-
dar of all remarkable occurrences for the year,
many useful and curious particulars relating to
Masonry . Inscribed to Lord Petre, G . M ., by
a Society of Brethren . London, printed for
the Society of Stationers . 	This work was
without any official authority, but two years
after the Freemason's Calendar for 1777 was
published " under the sanction of the Grand
Lodge of England ." A Masonic Year Book
is now issued annually by the Grand Lodge of
England, and most of the English Provinces
publish Masonic Almanacs .
Almighty . 	In Hebrew IV ~X, El Shaddai .
The name by which God was known to the
patriarchs before he announced himself to
Moses by his tetragrammatonic name of Je-
hovah . 	(See Exodus vi . 3 .) It refers to his
power and might as the Creator and Ruler of
the universe, and hence is translated in the
Septuagint by ,rawrorcpdrwp, and in the Vul-
gate by omnipotens .
Almond-Tree . 	When it is said in the pas-
sage of Scripture from the twelfth chapter of
Ecclesiastes, sometimes read during the cere-
monies of the Third Degree, " the almond-tree
shall flourish," reference is made to the white
flowers of that tree, and the allegoric signifi-
cation is to old age, when the hairs of the head
shall become gray .
ALNWICK
I 	Almoner . 	An officer elected or appointed
in the continental Lodges of Europe to take
charge of the contents of the alms-box, to
carry into effect the charitable resolutions of
the Lodge, and to visit sick and needy breth-
ren . 	A physician is usually selected in prefer-
ence to any other member for this office . An
almoner may also be appointed among the
officers of an English Loge . 	In the United
States the officer does not exist, his duties
being performed by a committee of charity .
It is an important office in all bodies of the
Scottish Rite .
Alms-Box . 	A box which, toward the
close of the Lodge, is handed around by an
appropriate officer for the reception of such
donations for general objects of charity as the
brethren may feel disposed to bestow . 	This
laudable custom is very generally practised
in the Lodges of England, Scotland and Ire-
land, and universally in those of the conti-
nent . 	The newly initiated candidate is ex-
pected to contribute more liberally than the
other members . 	Bro . Hyde Clarke says
(Lon . Freem . Mag ., 1859, p . 1166) that " some
brethren are in the habit, on an occasion of
thanksgiving with them, to contribute to the
box of the Lodge more than on other occa-
sions ." This custom has not been adopted in
the Lodges of America, except in those of
French origin and in those of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite .
Almsgiving . 	Although almsgiving, or the
pecuniary relief of the destitute was not one
of the original objects for which the Institu-
tion of Freemasonry was established, yet, as
in every society of men bound together by a
common tie, it becomes incidentally, yet nec-
essarily, a duty to be practised by all its
members in their individual as well as in their
corporate capacity . In fact, this virtue is inti-
mately interwoven with the whole superstruc-
ture of the Institution, and its practise is a
necessary corollary from all its principles . At
an early period in his initiation the candidate
is instructed in the beauty of charity by the
most impressive ceremonies, which are not
easily to be forgotten, and which, with the same
benevolent design, are repeated from time to
time during his advancement to higher de-
grees, in various forms and under different
circumstances . 	" The true Mason," 	sa s
Bro . Pike, " must be and must have a ri 	t
to be, content with himself ; and he can be so
only when he lives not for himself alone, but
for others who need his assistance and have a
claim upon his sympathy ." 	And the same
eloquent writer lays down this rule for a Ma-
son a almsgiving : " Give, looking for nothing
again, without consideration of future advan-
tages ; give to children, to old men, to the un-
thankful, and the dying, and to those you shall
never see again ; for else your alms or courtesy
is not charity, but traffic and merchandise .
And omit not to relieve the needs of your
enemy and him who does you injury ." (See
Exclusiveness of Masonry .)
Alnwick Manuscript . 	This manuscript,
which is now in the possession of th8 New-

AL-OM-JAH 	ALPHABET 	49
castle College of the " Societas Rosicruciana I writers, are ranged in the heavens in the form
in Anglia," is written on twelve quarto pages 	! of letters, and that it is possible to read
as a preface to the minute-book of the " Com- I there whatsoever of importance is to happen
pany and Fellowship of Freemasons of a i throughout the universe . And the great Eng-
Lodge held at Alnwick," where it appears lish Hermetic philosopher, Robert Fludd, says,
under the heading of " The Masons' Constitu- in his Apology for theBrethren of the Rosy Cross,
tions ." The date of the document is September that there are characters in the heavens
29, 1701, " being the general head meeting formed from the disposition of the stars, just
day ." It was first published in1871inHughan's' as geometric lines and ordinary letters are
Masonic Sketches and Reprints (Amer, ed .), I formed from points ; and he adds, that those
and again in 1872 by the same author in his I to whom God has granted the hidden knowl-
Otd Charges of the Brztash Freemasons . 	In this
latter work, Bro . Hughan says of the records of
this old Lodge that, " ranging from 1703 to
1757 they mostly refer to indentures, fines,
and initiations, the Lodge from first to last
remaining true to its operative origin . The
members were required annually to `appear at
the Parish Church of Alnwicke with their
approns on and common squares as aforesaid
on St . John's Day in Christmas, when a ser-
mon was provided and preached by some
clergyman at their appointment .' A . D .
1708 ." The MS . has since been reproduced
in facsimile by the Newcastle College of Rosi-
crucians in 1895 .
Al-om-Jah . In the Egyptian mysteries,
this is said to have been the name given to
the aspirant in the highest degree as the secret
name of the Supreme Being . In its compo-
nent parts we may recognize the ~{\, AL or EL of
the Hebrews, the Auras or triliteral name of
the Indian mysteries, and the T' JAS of the
Syrians .
Aloyau, Societe de 1' . 	The word Aloyau
is the French name for a sirloin of beef and
hence the title of this society in English would
be The Society of the Sirloin . 	It was a Masonic
association, which existed in France before
the revolution of 178 	until its members were	,
dispersed at that time . They professed to be
the possessors of many valuable documents
relating to the Knights Templar and, besides,
to be (ActaLatomorum, i ., 292) their successors .
(See Temple, Order of the .)
Alpha and Omega . 	The first and last let-
ters of the Greek language, referred to in the
Royal Master and some of the higher degrees .
They are explained by this passage in Revela-
tions, ch . xxii ., v . 13 . : " I am Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the end, the first
and the last ." Alpha and Omega is, there-
fore, one of the appellations of God, equiva-
lent to the beginning and end of all things, and
so referred to in Isaiah xliv . 6, " I am the first
and I am the last ."
Alphabet, Angels' . 	In the old rituals of
the Fourth or Secret Master's Degree of the
Scottish and some other Rites, we find this
passage : " The seventy-two names, like the
name of the Divinity, are to be taken to the
Kabbalistic Tree and the Angels' Alphabet ."
The Kabbalistic Tree is a name given by the
Kabbalists to the arrangement of the ten Seph-
iroth (which see) . The Angels' Alphabet is
called by the Hebrews OITh1 X17, chetab
hamalachim, or the writing of the angels . Gaf-
farel says (Curios . Inouis . t ch . xiii ., 2) that the
stars, according to the opinion of the Hebrew
edge of reading these characters will also know
not only whatever is to happen, but all the
secrets of philosophy . The letters thus ar-
ranged in the form of stars are called the An-
gels' Alphabet . They have the power and
articulation but not the form of the Hebrew
letters, and the Kabbalists say that in them
Moses wrote the tables of the law . The as-
trologers, and after them the alchemists, made
much use of this alphabet ; and its introduc-
tion into any of the high degree rituals is an
evidence of the influence exerted on these de-
grees by the Hermetic philosophy . Agrippa in
his Occult Philosophy, and Kircher in his (Edi-
pus Egyptiacus, and some other writers, have
given copies of this alphabet . It may also be
found in Johnson's Typographia . But it is in
the mystical books of the Kabbalists that we
must look for full instructions on this subject .
Alphabet, Hebrew . 	Nearly all of the sig-
nificant words in the Masonic rituals are of
Hebrew origin, and in writing them in the rit-
uals the Hebrew letters are frequently used .
For convenience of reference, that alphabet is
here given . The Hebrews, like other ancient
nations, had no figures, and therefore made
use of the letters of their alphabet instead of
numbers, each letter having a particular nu-
merical value . They are, therefore, affixed in
the following table :
Aleph 	It 	A 	1
Beth 	B 	2
Gimel 	] G 	3
Daleth 	"I D 	4
He 	ri 	H 	5
Vau 	1 	VorO 	6
Zain 	7 Z 	7
Cheth
Teth
ri 	CH 	8
t9 	T 	9
Yod
Caph
Lamed
I or Y 	10
C or K 	20
L 	30
Mem 	7] 	M 	40
Nun 	] N 	50
Samech 	b S 	60
Ain
Pe y Guttural 70
D P 	80
Tsaddi 	Y 	Tz 	90
Koph 	7 Q or K 100
Resh 	I R 	200
Shin 	10 	SH 	300
Tau 	rl 	T 	400
Final Caph 	1 	C or K 500
Final Mem 	C M 	600
Final Nun 	i N 	700
Final Pe 	P 	800
Final Tsaddi 	y 	TZ 	900

50 	ALPHABET
Alphabet, Masonic . 	See Ci p her Writing .
Alphabet, Number of Letters In . In
the Sandwich Island alphabet there are 12
letters ; the Burmese 19 ; Italian, 20 ; Ben-
galese, 21 ; Hebrew, §yrian, Chaldee, Phoeni-
cian, and Samaritan, 22 each ; Latin, 23
Greek, 24 ; French, 25 ; German, Dutch, and
English, 26 each ; Spanish and Sclavonic, 27
each, Persian and Coptic, 32 each ; Georgian,
35 ; Armenian, 38 ; Russian, 41 ; Muscovite,
43 ; Sanskrit and Japanese, 50 each ; Ethiopic
and Tartarian, 202 each .
Alphabet, Samaritan . 	It is believed by
scholars that, previous to the captivity, the
alphabet now called the Samaritan was em-
ployed by the Jews in transcribing the copies
of the law, and that it was not, until their re-
turn from Babylon that they adopted, instead
of their ancient characters, the Chaldee or
square letters, now called the Hebrew, in
which the sacred text, as restored by Ezra,
was written . Hence, in the more recent rit-
uals of the Scottish Rite, especially those used
in the United States, the Samaritan character
is beginning to be partially used . For conve-
nience of reference, it is therefore here inserted .
The letters are the same in number as the He-
brew, with the same power and the same
names ; the only difference is in form .
Aleph 	Lamed
Beth 	Mem
Gimel 	Nun
Daleth 	q 	Samech
He 	• 	Ayin
Vau 	Pe
Zain 	Tsade
Cheth 	Koph
Teth 	• 	Reach
Yod 	Shin
Kaph c Tau
Alpina . 	In 1836, and some years after-
ward, General Assemblies of the Masons of
Switzerland were convened at Zurich, Berne,
and Basle, which resulted in the union of the
two Masonic authorities of that confederation,
under the name of the Grand Lodge Alpina .
The new Grand Lodge was organized at Zur-
ich,	h,4by fourteen Lodges, on the 24th of July,
In 1910 it had 34 Lodges under its jurisdic-
tion with a membership of 3,842 .
Altar . 	The most important article of fur-
niture in a Lodge room is undoubtedly the
altar . It is worth while, then, to investigate
its character and its relation to the altars of
other religious institutions . The definition of
an altar is very simple . It is a structure ele-
vated above the ground, and appropriated to
some service connected with worship, such as
the offering of oblations, sacrifices, or prayers .
Altars, among the ancients, were generally
made of turf or stone . When permanently
erected and not on any sudden emergency,
they were generally built in regular courses of
ALTAR
Masonry, and usually in a cubical form . Altars
were erected long before temples . Thus,
Noah is said to have erected one as soon as he
came forth from the ark . Herodotus gives the
Egyptians the credit of being the first among
the heathen nations who invented altars .
Among the ancients, both Jews and Gen-
tiles, altars were of two kinds-for incense and
for sacrifice . The latter were always erected
in the open air, outside and in front of the
Temple . Altars of incense only were per-
mitted within the Temple walls . Animals were
slain, and offered on the altars of burnt-offer-
ings . On the altars of incense, bloodless sac-
rifices were presented and incense was burnt
to the Deity .
The Masonic altar, which, like everything
else in Masonry, is symbolic, appears to com-
bine the character and uses of both of these
altars . It is an altar of sacrifice, for on it the
candidate is directed to lay his passions and
vices as an oblation to the Deity while he
offers up the thoughts of a pure heart as a
fitting incense to the Grand Architect of the
Universe . The altar is, therefore, the most
holy place in a Lodge .
Among the ancients, the altar was always
invested with peculiar sanctity . Altars were
places of refuge, and the supplicants who fled
to them were considered as having placed
themselves under the protection of the Deity
to whom the altar was consecrated, and to do
violence even to slaves and criminals at the	• 	altar, or to drag them from it, was regarded as
an act of violence to the Deity himself, and was
hence a sacrilegious crime .
The marriage covenant among the ancients	• 	was always solemnized at the altar, and men
• 	were accustomed to make all their solemn con-
tracts and treaties by taking oaths at altars .
An oath taken or a vow made at the altar was	• 	considered as more solemn and binding than
one assumed under other circumstances .
• 	Hence, Hannibal's father brought him to the
Carthaginian altar when he was about to make
him swear eternal enmity to the Roman
power .
In all the religions of antiquity, it was the
usage of the priests and the people to pass
around the altar in the course of the sun, that
is to say, from the east, by the way of the
south, to the west, singing paeans or hymns of
praise as a part of their worship .
From all this we see that the altar in Ma-
sonr~ is not merely a convenient article of
furniture, intended, like a table, to hold a
Bible . 	It is a sacred utensil of religion, in-
tended, like the altars of the ancient temples,
for religious uses, and thus identifying Ma-
sonry, by its necessary existence in our Lodges,
as a religious institution . Its presence should
also lead the contemplative Mason to view the
ceremonies in which it is employed with
solemn reverence, as being part of a really
religious worship .
The situation of the altar in the French and
Scottish Rites is in front of the Worshipful
Master, and therefore, in the East . 	In the
York Rite, the altar is placed in the center of

ALTENBERG
the room, or more properly a little to the East
of the center .
The form of a Masonic altar should be a
cube, about three feet high, and of correspond-
ing proportions as to length and width, having,
in imitation of the Jewish altar, four horns,
one at each corner . 	The Holy Bible with the
Square and Compass should be spread open
EAST .
i ~!IiliiVi'llllill~illll
III IIIIIIiil~lllllllllllllll1111111111111119flllllllllllllllllllll'
WEST .
upon it, while around it are to be placed three
lights . 	These lights are to be in the East,
West, and South, and should be arranged as in
the annexed diagram . The stars show the posi-
tion of the light in the East West, and South .
The black dot represents the position North
of the altar where there is no light, because in
Masonry the North is the place of darkness .
Altenburg, Congress of . Altenberg is a
small place in the Grand Dukedom of Weimar,
about two miles from the city of Jena . 	Here
in the month of June 	1764 the notorious
Johnson, or Leucht, who called himself the
Grand Master of the Knights Templar and the
head of the Rite of Strict Observance, assem-
bled a Masonic congress for the purpose of
establishing this Rite and its system of Tem-
plar Masonry . 	But he was denounced and
expelled by the Baron de Hund, who having
proved Johnson to be an impostor and' charla-
tan, was himself proclaimed Grand Master of
the German Masons by the congress . (See
Johnson and Hund ; also Strict Observance,
Rite of .)
Altenburg, Lodge at . One of the oldest
Lodges in Germany is the Lodge of " Archi-
medes of the Three Tracing Boards" (Archi-
medes zu den drei Reissbreutern) in Altenburg .
It was instituted January 31, 1742, by a depu-
tation from Leipsic . 	In 1775 it joined the
Grand Lodge of Berlin, but in 1788 attached
itself to the Eclectic Union at Frankfort-on-
the-Main, which body it left in 1801, and
established a directory of its own, and in-
stalled a Lodge at Gera and another at Schnee-
berg . 	In the year 1803 the Lodge published a
Book of Constitutions in a folio of 244 pages, a
work which is now rare, and which Lenning
says is one of the most valuable contributions
to Masonic literature . 	Three Masonic jour-
nals were also produced by the Altenburg
school of historians and students, one of which
-theBruderbldtter continued to appear until
1854 . 	In 1804 the Lodge struck a medal upon
the occasion of erecting a new hall . 	In 1842
it celebrated its centennial anniversary .
AMENDMENT 	51
Amal-sagghl . 	(Great labor .) 	The name
of the 5th step of the mystic ladder of Kadosh,
A . A . Scottish Rite .
Amaranth . A plant well known to the
ancients, the Greek name of which signifies
" never withering ." 	It is the Celosia cristata
of the botanists . 	The dry nature of the
flowers causes them to retain their freshness for
a very long time, and Pliny says, although in-
correctly, that if thrown into water they will
bloom anew . 	Hence it is a symbol of immor-
tality, and was used by the ancients in their
funeral rites . 	It is often placed on coffins at
the present day with a like symbolic meaning,
and is hence one of the decorations of a
Sorrow Lodge .
Amaranth, Order of the . Instituted by
Queen Christina of Sweden in 1653, and num-
bering 31, composed of 15 knights, 15 ladies,
and the Queen as the Grandmistress . 	The
insignia consisted of two letters A interlaced
one being inverted, within a laurel crown, and
bearing the motto, Dolce nella memoria . 	The
annual festival of this equestrian Order was
held at the Epiphany . 	A society of a similar
name, androgynous in its nature, was insti-
tuted in 1883, under the supervision of Robert
Macoy, of New York, to supplement the Order
of the Eastern Star, having a social and
charitable purpose, the ritual of which, as well
as its constitutional government, has met with
much commendation .
Amax jah . 	Hebrew M"1TMR, God spake ;
a significant word in the high degrees of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite .
Amen . 	Sometimes used as a response to a
Masonic prayer, though in England the formula
is " so mote it be ." 	The word Amen signifies
in Hebrew verily, truly, certainly . 	"Its proper
place," says Gesenius, " is where one person
confirms the words of another, and adds his
wish for success to the other's vows ." 	It is
evident, then, that it is the brethren of the
Lodge and not the Master or Chaplain, who
should pronounce the word . 	Yet the custom
in the United States is for the Master or
Chaplain to say "Amen "and the brethren
respond, " So mote it be ." 	It is a response to
the prayer . 	The Tahnudists have many
superstitious notions in respect to this word .
Thus, in one treatise (Uber Musar), it is said
that whosoever pronounces it with fixed atten-
tion and devotion, to him the gates of Paradise
will be opened-and : again, whosoever enunci-
ates the word rapidly, his days shall pass
rapidly away, and whosoever dwells upon it,
pronouncing it distinctly and slowly, his life
shall be prolonged .
Amendment . 	All amendments to the by-
laws of a Lodge must be submitted to the
Grand or Provincial or District Lodge for its
approval .
An amendment to a motion pending before
a Lodge takes precedence of the original
motion, and the question must be put upon the
amendment first . If the amendment be lost,
then the question will be on the motion ; if the
amendment be adopted, then the question
will be on the original motion as so amended ;

52 	AMENDMENT
and if then this question be lost, the whole
motion falls to the ground .
The principal Parliamentary rules in rela-
tion to amendments which are applicable to
the business of a Masonic Lodge are the
following :
1 . An amendment must be made in one of
three ways : by adding or inserting certain
words, by striking out certain words, or by
striking out certain words and inserting others .
2 . Every amendment is susceptible of an
amendment of itself, but there can be no
amendment of the amendment of an amend-
ment ; such a piling of questions one upon
another would tend to embarrass rather than
to facilitate business . " The object which is
proposed to be effected by such a proceeding
must be sought by rejecting the amendment
to the amendment, and then submitting the
proposition in the form of an amendment of
the first amendment in the form desired ."
Cushing (Elem . Law and Pract . Leg . Ass .,
§ 1306) illustrates this as follows : " If a prop-
osition consists of AB, and it is proposed to
amend by inserting CD, it may be moved to
amend the amendment by inserting EF ; but
it cannot be moved to amend this amendment,
as, for example, by inserting G . The only
mode by which this can be reached is to reject
the amendment in the form in which it is pre-
sented, namely, to insert EF, and to move it
in the form in which it is desired to be
amended, namely, to insert EFG ."
3 . An amendment once rejected cannot be
again proposed .
4 . An amendment to strike out certain
words having prevailed, a subsequent motion
to restore them is out of order .
5 . An amendment may be proposed which
will entirely change the character and sub-
stance of the original motion . The incon-
sistency or incompatibility of a proposed
amendment with the proposition to be
amended, though an argument, perhaps, from
its rejection by the Lodge, is no reason for its
suppression by the presiding officer .
6 . An amendment, before it has been pro-
posed to the body for discussion, may be with-
drawn by the mover • but after it has once been
in possession of the Lodge, it can only be with-
drawn by leave of the Lodge . In the Congress
of the 	nited States, leave must be obtained
by unanimous consent ; but the usage in Ma-
sonic bodies is to require only a majority vote .
7 . An amendment having been withdrawn
by the mover, may be again proposed by
another member .
8 . Several amendments may be proposed
to a motion or several amendments to an
amendment, and the question will be put on
them in the order of their presentation . But
as an amendment takes precedence of a
motion, so an amendment to an amendment
takes precedence of the original amendment .
9 . An amendment does not require a
seconder, although an original motion always
does .
There are many other rules relative to
amendments which prevail in Parliamentary
AMERICAN
bodies, but these appear to be the only ones
which regulate this subject in Masonic assem-
blies .
Amenti . See Book of the Dead .
American Mysteries . 	Among the many
evidences of a former state of civilization among
the Aborigines of America which seem to
prove their origin from the races that inhabit
the Eastern hemisphere, not the least re-
markable is the existence of Fraternities bound
by mystic ties, and claiming, like the Free-
masons, to possess an esoteric knowledge,
which they carefully conceal from all but the
initiated . De Witt Clinton relates, on the
authority of a respectable native minister,
who had received the signs, the existence of
such a society among the Iroquois . The
number of the members was limited to fifteen,
of whom six were to be of the Seneca tribe,
five of the Oneidas, two of the Cayugas, and
two of the St . Regis . They claim that their
institution has existed from the era of the
creation . The times of their meeting they
keep secret, and throw much mystery over all
their proceedings .
Brinton tells us in his interesting and in-
structive work on The Myths of the New World
(p . 285), that among the red race of America
" the priests formed societies of different
grades of illumination, only to be entered by
those willing to undergo trying ordeals, whose
secrets were not to be revealed under the
severest penalties . The Algonkins had three
such grades-the waubeno, the meda, and the
jossakeed, the last being the highest . To this
no white man was ever admitted . All tribes
appear to have been controlled by these secret
societies . Alexander von Humboldt men-
tions one, called that of the Botuto, or Holy
Trumpet, among the Indians of the Orinoco,
whose members must vow celibacy, and sub-
mit to severe scourgings and fasts . The
Collahuayas of Peru were a guild of itinerant
quacks and magicians, who never remained
permanently in one spot ."
American Rite . 	It has been proposed,
and I think with propriety, to give this name
to the series of degrees conferred in the
United States . The York Rite, which is the
name by which they are usually designated,
is certainly a misnomer, for the York Rite
properly consists of only the degrees of
Entered Apprentice, Fellow-Craft, and Master
Mason, including in the last degree the Holy
Royal Arch . This was the Masonry that
existed in England at the time of the revival
of the Grand Lodge in 1717 . The abstraction
of the Royal Arch from the Master's Degree,
and its location as a separate degree, produced
that modification of the York Rite which now
exists in England, and which should properly
be called the Modern York Rite, to distin-
guish it from the Ancient York Rite, which
consisted of only three degrees . But in the
United States still greater additions have been
made to the Rite, through the labors of Webb
and other lecturers, and the influence insensi-
bly exerted on the Order by the introduction
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite

into this country . The American modifica-
tion of the York Rite, or the American Rite,
consists of nine degrees, viz . :
Given in Sym-
bolic Lodges, and
under the control
of Grand Lodges .
4 . Mark Master . 	Given in Chap-
5 . Past Master . 	ters, and under the
6 . Most Excellent Master . control of Grand
7 . Holy Royal Arch . 	Chapters .
Given in Coun-
8 . Royal Master . cils, and under the
9 . Select Master . 	control of Grand
Councils .
A tenth degree, called Super-Excellent
Master, is conferred in some Councils as an
honorary rather than as a regular degree ; but
even as such it is repudiated by many Grand
Councils . To these, perhaps, should be added
three more degrees, namely, Knight of the
Red Cross, Knight Templar, and Knight of
Malta, which are given in Commanderies, and
are under the control of Grand Command *es
or, as they are sometimes called, Grand En-
campments . But the degrees of the Com-
mandery, which are also known as the degrees
of Chivalry, can hardly be called a part of the
American Rite . The possession of the Eighth
and Ninth Degreesisnot considered anecessary
qualification for receiving them . The true
American Rite consists only of the nine de-
grees above enumerated .
There is, or may be, a Grand Lodge Grand
Chapter, Grand Council, and Grand Com-
mandery in each State, whose jurisdiction is
distinct and sovereign within its own territory .
There is no General Grand Lodge, or Grand
Lodge of the United States, though several
efforts have been made to form one (see
General Grand Lodge) ; there is a General
Grand Chapter, but all Grand Chapters are not
subject to it, and a Grand Encampment to
which all Grand Commanderies of the States
are subject .
R
aAmerican (Military) Union Lodge
. In
1776 six Master Masons, four Fellow-Crafts,
andoneEntered Apprentice, all but one, officers
in the Connecticut Line of the Continental
rmy in camp ~ at Roxbury, Mass ., petitioned
ichard Gridley, Deputy Grand Master of
St . John's Grand Lodge, for a warrant forming
them into a regular Lodge . On the 15th of
February, a warrant was issued to Joel Clark,
appointing and constituting him First Master
of American Union Lodge, " erected at Rox-
bury, or wherever your body shall remove on
the Continent of America, provided it is where
no Grand Master is appointed ." The Lodge
was duly constituted and almost immediately
moved to New York, and met on April 23,
1776, b permission of Dr . Peter Middleton,
Grand Master of Masons in the Province of
New York . It was agreed at this meeting to
petition him to confirm the Massachusetts
warrant as, under its terms they were without
authority to meet in New York . Dr . Middle-
ton woud not confirm the warrant of Ameri-
1 . Entered Apprentice .
2 . Fellow-Craft .
3 . Master Mason .
AMERICAN 	AMIS 	53
can Union Lodge, but in April, 1776, caused a
new warrant to be issued to the same brethren,
underthename of Military Union Lodge, No .1,
without recalling the former warrant . They
thus presented an anomaly of a Lodge holding
warrants from and yielding obedience to two
Grand Bodies in different jurisdictions . The
spirit of the brethren, though, is shown in their
adherence to the name American Union in
their minutes, and the only direct acknowl-
ed_ .t ent of the new name is in a minute pro-
vi . . g that the Lodge furniture purchased by
American Union " be considered only as lent
to the Military Union Lodge ."
This Lodge followed the Connecticut Line
of the Continental army throughout the War
of Independence . It was Gen . Samuel Holden
Parsons of American Union who returned to
the British army Lodge Unity, No . 18, their
warrant, which had come into possession of
the American army at the taking of Stony
Point in 1779 . American Union participated
in a convention at Morristown, N . J ., January
31, 1780, when it was proposed to nominate
Gen . Washington as "Grand Master over the
thirteen United States of America," and it was
on the suggestion of Rev . Israel Evans, of
American Union that the " Temple of Vir-
tue," for the use of the army and the army
Lodges, was erected at New Windsor (New-
burgh), N . Y . during the winter of 1782-83 .
The Lodge followed the army to the North-
west Territory after the Wax of Independence,
and participated in the formation of the
Grand Lodge of Ohio . Shortly afterward
the Lodge withdrew from the Grand Lodge of
Ohio and did not appear on the roll thereafter,
but pursued an independent existence for
some years . The present American Union
Lodge at Marietta, Ohio, No . 1 on the roll of
the Grand Lodge of Ohio, was organized by
members of the old Lodge . The first minute-
book, from the original constitution to Aril
23, 1783, is in the library of the Grand Loge
of New York . During the war many prom-
inent patriots were members, and several
times Washington was recorded as a visitor .
[C . A. B .]
Ameth . Properly, Emeth, which see .
Amethyst . Hebrew "M- MX, achlemah .
The ninth stone in the breastplate of the high
priest . The amethyst is a stone in hardness
next to the diamond, and of a deep red and
blue color resembling the breast of a dove .
Amicists, Order of . A secret association
of students, once very extensively existing
among the universities of Northern Germany .
Thory (ActaLatomorum, i ., 292) says that this
association was first established in the College
of Clermont, at Paris . An account of it was
published at Halle, in 1799, by F . C . Laukhard,
under the title of Der Mosellaner-- oder Amid
cisten-Orden nach seiner Entstehung, innern
Verfassung and Verbreitung auf den deutschen
Universitaten, &c . The Order was finally
suppressed by the imperial government .
Amis Reunis, Loge des . The Lodge of
United Friends, founded at Paris in 1771, was
distinguished for the talents of many of it8

54 	AMMON
members, among whom was Savalette de
Langes, and played for many years an im-
portant part in the affairs of French Masonry .
In its bosom was originated, in 1775, the Rite
of Philalethes . In 1784 it convoked the first
Congress of Paris, which was held in 1785, for
the laudable purpose of endeavoring to dis-
entangle Freemasonry from the almost inex-
tricable confusion into which it had fallen
by the invention of so many rites and new
d 	. 	The Lodge was in possession of a
v uable library for the use of its members
and had an excellent cabinet of the physical
and natural sciences . Upon the death of
Savalette, who was the soul of the Lodge, it
fell into decay, and its books, manuscripts,
and cabinet were scattered . (Clavel, p . 171 .)
All of its library that was valuable was trans-
ferred to the archives of the Mother Lodge of
the Philosophic Scottish Rite . Barruel gives
a brilliant picture of the concerts, balls and
suppers given by this Lodge in its halcyon
days, to which " lea Cresus de la Maconnene "
congregated, while a few superior members
were engaged, as he says, in hatching political
and revolutionary schemes, but really in plans
for the elevation of Masonry as a philosophic
institution . 	(Barruel, Memoires pour servir d
l'Histoire du Jaeobinisme, iv ., 343 .)
Ammon . See Amun .
Ammonitish War . 	A war to which
allusion is made in the Fellow-Craft's Degree .
The Ammonites were the descendants of the
younger son of Lot, and dwelt east of the
river Jordan, but originally formed no part of
the land of Canaan, the Israelites having been
directed not to molest them for the sake of
their great progenitor, the nephew of Abraham .
But in the time of Jephthah, their king having
charged the Israelites with taking away a part
of his territory the Ammonites crossed the
river Jordan and made war upon the Israelites .
Jephthah defeated them with great slaughter,
and took an immense amount of spoil . It was
on account of this spoil-in which they had no
share-that the Ephraimites rebelled against
Jephthah, and gave him battle . (SeeEphraim-
ites .)
Amor Honor et Justitla . 	A motto of the
Grand Lodge of England used prior to the
union of 1813, which is to be found graven on
the " Masonic Token " of 1794, commemora-
tive of the election of the Prince of Wales as
M . W . Grand Master, November 24, 1790 .
Amphibalus . See Saint Amphibalus .
Ample Form . When the Grand Master
is present at the opening or closing of the
Grand Lodge, it is said to be opened or closed
" in ample form . 	Any ceremony performed
by the Grand Master is said to be done " in
ample form"- when performed by the Deputy,
it is said to 6 "in due form" ; and by any
other temporarily presiding officer, it is "in
form ." 	(See Form .)
Amru . The name given to the Phoenician
carpenter, who is represented in some legends
as one of the Assassins, Fanor and Metusael
being the other two .
Anishaspands . The name given in the Per-
ANAGRAM
sian Avesta to the six good genii or powerful
angels who continuously wait round the throne
of Ormudz, or Ormazd . Also the name of the
six summer months and the six productive
working properties of nature .
Amulet . 	See Talisman .
Amun . 	The Supreme God among the
Egyptians . He was a concealed god, and is
styled " the Celestial Lord who sheds light on
hidden things ." From him all things ema-
nated, though he created nothing . He corre-
sponded with the Jove of the Greeks, and,
consequently, with the Jehovah of the Jews .
His symbol was a ram, which animal was
sacred to him . On the monuments he is
represented with a human face and limbs free,
having two tall straight feathers on his head,
issuing from a red cap ; in front of the plumes a
disk is sometimes seen . His body is colored a
deep blue . He is sometimes, however, repre-
sented with the head of a ram, and the Greek
and Roman writers in general agree in de-
scribing him as being ram-headed . There is
some confusion on this point . Kenrick says
that Nouf was in the majority of instances,
the ram-headed god of the Egyptians ; but he
admits that Amun may have been sometimes
so represented .
Anachronism . 	Ritual makers, especially
when theyhave been ignorant anduneducated
have often committed anachronisms by the
introduction into Masonic ceremonies of
matters entirely out of time . Thus, the use
of a bell to indicate the hour of the night,
practised in the Third Degree ; the placing of a
celestial and a terrestrial globe on the summit
of the pillars of the porch, in the Second
Degree ; and quotations from the New Testa-
ment and references to the teachings of Christ,
in the Mark Degree, are all anachronisms .
But, although it were to be wished that these
disturbances of the order of time had been
avoided, the fault is not really of much im-
portance . The object of the ritualist was
simply to convey an idea, and this he has done
in the way which he supposed would be most
readily comprehended by those for whom the
ritual was made . The idea itself is old, al-
though the mode of conveying it may be new .
Thus, the bell is used to indicate a specific
point of time, the globes to symbolize the uni-
versality of Masonry, and passages from the
New Testament to inculcate the practise of
duties whose obligations are older than Chris-
tianity .
Anagram . 	The manufacture of anagrams
out of proper names or other words has always
been a favorite exercise, sometimes to pay a
compliment-as when Dr . Burney made
Honor est a Nilo out of Horatio Nelson-and
sometimes for purposes of secrecy, as when
Roger Bacon concealed under an anagram one
of the ingredients in his recipe for gunpowder,
that the world might not too easily become
acquainted with the composition of so dan-
gerous a material . The same method was
adopted by the adherents of the house of
Stuart when they manufactured their system
of high degrees as a political engine, and thus,

ANANIAH
under an anagrammatic form, they made
many words to designate their friends or,
principally,theirenemiesof the opposite party .
Most of these words it has now become im-
poasible to restore to their original form,
but several are readily decipherable . Thus,
among the Assassins of the Third Degree, who
symbolized, with them, the foes of the mon-
archy, we recognize Romvel as Cromwell, and
Hoben as Bohun, Earl of Essex . It is only
thus that we can ever hope to trace the origin
of such words in the high degrees as Tercy,
Stolkin, Morphey, etc . 	To look for them in
any Hebrew root would be a fruitless task .
The derivation of many of them, on account
of the obscurity of the persons to whom they
refer, is, perhaps, forever lost ; but of others
the research for their meaning may be more
successful .
Ananiah . 	The name of a learned Egyp-
tian, who is said to have introduced the Order
of Mizraim from Egypt into Italy . 	Dr .
Oliver (Landm ., ii ., 75) states the tradition,
but doubts its authenticity . It is in all prob-
ability apocryphal . (See Mizraim, Rite of.)
Anchor and Ark . The anchor, as a sym-
bol of hope, does not appear to have belonged
to the ancient and classic system of symbolism .
The Goddess Spes, or Hope, was among the
ancients represented in the form of an erect
woman, holding the skirts of her garments in
her left hand, and in her right a flower-shaped
cup . 	As an emblem of hope, the anchor is
peculiarly a Christian and thence a Masonic,
symbol . 	It is first found inscribed on the
tombs in the catacombs of Rome, and the
idea of using it is probably derived from the
language of St . Paul (Heb . vi . 19), " which
hope we have as an anchor
of the soul both sure and
steadfast ." 	The primitive
Christians 	" looked upon
life as a stormy voyage, and
glad 	were the 	voyagers
when it was done, and they
had arrived safe in port .
Of this the anchor was a
symbol, and when their brethren carved it
over the tomb, it was to them an expression
of confidence that he who slept beneath had
reached the haven of eternal rest ." (Kip,
Catacombs of Rome, p . 112 .) The strict iden-
tity between this and the Masonic idea of the
symbol will be at once observed .
" The anchor " says Mrs . Jameson (Sac .
andLegend, Art . I . 34), " is the Christian sym-
bol of immovable firmness, hope, and patience ;
and we find it very frequently in the cata-
combs, and on the ancient Christian gems ."
It is the peculiar attribute of St . Clement,
and is often inscribed on churches dedicated
to him .
But there is a necessary connection between
an anchor and a ship, and hence, the latter
image has also been adopted as a symbol of
the voyage of life ; but, unlike the anchor, it
was not confined to Christians, but was with
the heathens also a favorite emblem of the
close of life. Kip thinks the idea may have
ANCIENT 	55
been derived from them by the Christian
Fathers, who gave it a more elevated m
The ship is in Masonry substituted b ty the
Mrs . Jameson says (ut supra) that ` the Ark
of Noah floating safe amid the deluge, in which
all things else were overwhelmed, was an
obvious symbol of the Church of Christ . . . .
The bark of St . Peter tossed in the storm, and
by the Redeemer guided safe to land, was also
considered as symbolical ."
These symbolical views have been intro-
duced into Masonry, with, however, the more
extended application which the universal
character of the Masonic religious faith re-
quired . 	Hence, in the Third D 	, whose
teachings all relate to life and deat , " the ark
and anchor are emblems of a well-grounded
hope and a well-spent life . They are em-
blematical of that Divine ark which safely
wafts us over this tempestuous sea of troubles,
and that anchor which shall safely moor us in a
peaceful harbor where the wicked cease from
troubling and the weary shall find rest ." Such
is the language of the lecture of the Third
Degree, and it gives all the information that
is required on the esoteric meaning of these
symbols . 	The history I have added of their
probable origin will no doubt be interesting to
the Masonic student .
Anchor, Knight of the . See Knight of
the Anchor .
Anchor, Order of Knights and Ladles
of the . 	A system of androgynous Masonry
which arose in France in the year 1745 . 	It
was a schism which sprang out of the Order of
Felicity, from which it differed only in being
somewhat more refined . 	Its existence was
not more durable than that of its predecessor .
(Clavel, H ist. pitt. de la F . M ., p . 111 .) (See
Felicity, Order of .)
Ancient and Accepted Rite . See Scot-
tish Rite .
Ancient Craft Masonry . This is the
name given to the three symbolic degrees of
Entered Apprentice, Fellow-Craft, and Master
Mason . The degree of Royal Arch is not
generally included under this appellation ; al-
though, when considered (as it really is) a com-
plement of the Third Degree, it must of course
constitute a part of Ancient Craft Masonry .
In the articles of union between the two Grand
Lodges of England, adopted in 1813, it is de-
clared that " pure Antient Masonry consists
of three degrees and no more, viz . : those of the
Entered Apprentice the Fellow Craft, and the
Master Mason, including the Supreme Order
of the Holy Royal Arch ."
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons .
The title most generally assumed by the Eng-
lish and American Grand Lodges . (See Titles
of Grand Lodges .)
Ancient or Antlent or Atholl Masons .
In 1751 some Irish Masons in London estab-
lished a body which they called the " Grand
Lodge of England according to the Old Insti-
tutions," and they styled themselves " An-
cients " and the members of the regular
Grand Lodge, established in 1717 " Moderns ."
Thus Dermott, in his Ahiman 1'tezon, divide@

56 	ANCIENT
the Masons of England into two classes,, as
follows :
" The Ancients, under the name of Free and
Accepted Masons, according to the old Insti-
tutions ; the Moderns, under the name of
Freemasons of England . And though a sim-
ilarity of names, yet they differ exceedingly
in makings, ceremonies, knowledge, Masonic
language, and installations ; so much, that
they always have been, and still continue to
be, two distinct societies, totally independent
of each other ." 	(7th ed ., p . xxx .)
The " Ancients " maintained that they
alone preserved the ancient tenets and prac-
tises of Masonry, and that the regular Lodges
had altered the Landmarks and made innova-
tions, as they undoubtedly had done about the
year 1730, when Prichard's Masonry Dis-
sected appeared .
For a long time it was supposed that the
" Ancients " were a schismatic body of
seceders from the Premier Grand Lodge of
England, but Bro . Henry Sadler, in his Ma-
sonic Facts and Fictions, has proved that
this view is erroneous, and that they were
really Irish Masons who settled in London .
In the y ear 1756, Laurence Dermott, then
Grand Secretary, and subsequently the
Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
the Ancients, published a Book of Constitu-
tions for the use of the Ancient Masons, under
the title of Ahiman Rezon, which work went
through several editions, and became the
code of Masonic law for all who adhered,
either in England or America, to the Grand
Lodge of the Ancients, while the Grand
Lodge of the Moderns, or the regular Grand
Lodge of England, and its adherents, were
governed by the regulations contained in
Anderson's Constitutions, the first edition of
which had been published in 1723 .
The dissensions between the two Grand
Lodges of En g land lasted until the year 1813,
when, as will be hereafter seen, the two bodies
became consolidated under the name and title
of the United Grand Lodge of Ancient Free-
masons of England . Four years afterward
a similar and final reconciliation took place in
America, b y the union of the two Grand
- Lodges in South Carolina . At this,day all
distinction between the Ancients and Modems
has ceased, and it lives only in the memory of
the Masonic student .
What were the precise differences in the rit-
uals of the Ancients and the Moderns, it is
now perhaps impossible to discover, as from
their esoteric nature they were only orally
communicated ; but some shrewd and near
approximations to their real nature may be
drawn by inference from the casual expressions
which have fallen from the advocates of each
in the course of their long and generally
bitter controversies .
It has already been said that the regular
Grand Lodge is stated to have made certain
changes in the modes of recognition, in conse-
quence of the publication of Samuel Prichard's
spurious revelation . These changes were, as
we traditionally learn, a simple transposition
ANCIENT
of certain words, by which that which had
originally been the first became the second, and
that which had been the second became the first .
Hence Dr . Daleho, the compiler of the original
Ahiman Rezon of South Carolina, who was
himself made in an Ancient Lodge, but was
acquainted with both systems, says (Edit .
1822, p . 193), " The real difference in point of
importance was no greater than it would be to
dispute whether the glove should be placed first
upon the right or on the left ." A similar testi-
mony as to the character of these changes is
furnished by an address to the Duke of Atholl,
the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Ancients, in which it is said : " I would beg
leave to ask, whether two persons standing in
the Guildhall of London, the one facing the
statues of Gog and Ma g og, and the other with
his back turned on them, could, with any
degree of propriety, quarrel about their sta-
tions ; as Gog must be on the right of one, and
Magog on the right of the other . Such then,
and far more insignificant, is the disputatious
temper of the seceding brethren, that on no
better grounds than the above they choose to
usurp a power and to aid in open and direct
violation of the regulations they had solemnly
engaged to maintain and by every artifice
possible to be devised endeavored to increase
their numbers ." It was undoubtedly to the
relative situation of the pillars of the porch,
and the appropriation of their names in the
ritual, that these innuendoes referred . As we
have them now, they were made by the
change effected by the Grand Lodge of Mod-
erns, which trans po sed the original order in
which they existed before the change, and in
which order they are still preserved by the con-
tinental Lodges of Europe .
It is then admitted that the Moderns did
make innovations in the ritual ; and although
Preston asserts that the changes were made
by the regular Grand Lod g e to distinguish its
members from those made by the Ancient
Lodges, it is evident, from the language of
the address just q uoted, that the innovations
were the cause and not the effect of the schism,
and the inferential evidence is that the changes
were made in consequence of, and as a safe-
guard against, s p urious publications, and
were intended, as has already been stated, to
distinguish impostors from true Masons, and
not schismatic or irregular brethren from
those who were orthodox and regular .
But outside of and beyond this transposi-
tion of words, there was another difference
existing between the Ancients and the Mod-
ems . 	Dalcho, who was acquainted with both
systems, says that the Ancient Masons were
in possession of marks of recognition known
only to themselves . His language on this
subject is positive . 	" The Ancient York Ma-
sons," he says, " were certainly in possession
of the original, universal marks, as they were
known and given in the Lodges they had left,
and which had descended through the Lodge
of York, and that of England, down to their
day . Besides these, we find they had pecul-
iar marks of their own, which were unknown

ANCIENT
to the body from which they had separated,
and were unknown to the rest of the Masonic
world . We hale, then, the evidence that
they had two sets of marks ; viz . : those which
they had brought with them from the original
body, and those which they had, we must sup-
pose, themselves devised .' 	(P . 192 .)
Dermott, in his Ahiman Rezon, confirms
this statement of Daicho, if, indeed, it needs
confirmation . He says that " a Modern
Mason may with safety communicate all his
secrets to an Ancient Mason, but that an
Ancient Mason cannot, with like safety, com-
municate all his secrets to a Modern Mason
without further ceremony ." And he assigns
as a reason for this, that "as a science com-
prehends an art (though an art cannot com-
prehend a science), even so Ancient Masonry
contains everything valuable among the Mod-
erns, as well as many other things that cannot
be revealed without additional ceremonies ."
Now, what were these "other things"
known by the Ancients, and not known by
the Moderns? What were these distinctive
marks, which precluded the latter from visit-
ing the Lodges of the former? Written his-
tory is of course silent as to these esoteric
matters . But tradition, confirmed by, and at
the same time explaining, the hints and casual
intimations of contemporary writers, leads us
to the almost irresistible inference that they
were to be found in the different constructions
of the Third, or Master's Degree, and the intro-
duction into it of the Royal Arch element ; for,
as Dr . Oliver (Hist . Eng . R . A ., p . 21) says,
" the division of the third degree and the fab-
rication of the English Royal Arch appear, on
their own showing, to have been the work of
the Ancients ." And hence the Grand Secre-
tary of the regular Grand Lodge, or that of the
Moderns, replying to the application of an
Ancient Mason from Ireland for relief, says :
" Our society (i . e ., the Moderns) is neither
Arch, Royal Arch, nor Ancient, so that you
have no right to partake of our charity ."
This, then, is the solution of the difficulty .
The Ancients, besides preserving the regular
order of the words in the First and Second De-
grees, which the Moderns had transposed (a
transposition which has been retained in the
Lodges of Britain and America, but which
has never been observed by the continental
Lodges of Europe, who continue the usage of
the Ancients), also finished the otherwise im-
perfect Third Degree with its natural comple-
ment, the Royal Arch, a complement with
which the Moderns were unacquainted, or
which they, if they knew it once, had lost .
The following is a list of t e Grand Masters
of the Grand Lodge of Ancients from its or-
ganization to its dissolution : 1753, Robert
Turner ; 1754-55, Edward Vaughan ; 1756-59,
Earl of Blessington ; 1760-65, Earl of Kelly ;
1766-70, The Hon . Thomas Matthew ; 1771-
74, third Duke of Atholl ; 1775-81, fourth
Duke of Atholl • 1782-90, Earl of Antrim ;
1791-1813, fourth Duke of Atholl ; 1813, Duke
of Kent, under whom the reconciliation of the
two Grand Lodges was accomplished .
ANDERSON 	57
The Grand Lodge of Ancient Masons was,
shortly after its organization, recognized by
the Grand Lodges of Scotland and Ireland,
and, through the ability and energy of its
officers, but especially Laurence Dermott, at
one time its Grand Secretary, and afterward
its Deputy Grand Master, and the author of
its Ahiman Rezon, or Book of Constitutions,
it extended its influence and authority into
foreign countries and into the British Colonies
of America, where it became exceedingly pop-
ular, and where it organized several Provincial
Grand Lodges, as, for instance, in Massa-
chusetts, New York, Pennsylvania Virginia,
and South Carolina, where the Loiges work-
ing under this authority were generally known
as " Ancient York Lodges ."
In consequence of this, dissensions existed,
not only in the mother country, but also in
America, for many years, between the Lodges
which derived their warrants from the Grand
Lodge of Ancients and those-which derived
theirs from the regular or so-called Grand
Lodge of Moderns . But the Duke of Kent
having been elected, in 1813, the Grand Mas-
ter of the Ancients, while his brother the
Duke of Sussex, was Grand Master o1 the
Moderns, a permanent reconciliation was
effected between the rival bodies, and by mu-
tual compromises the present "United Grand
Lodge of Ancient Freemasons of England "
was established .
Similar unions were consummated in Amer-
ica, the last being that of the two Grand
Lodges of South Carolina, in 1817, and the
distinction between the Ancients and the
Moderns was forever abolished or remains
only as a melancholy page in tune history of
Masonic controversies . From their connec-
tion with the Dukes of Atholl, the "Ancient "
Masons are sometimes known as "Atholl"
Masons . 	[E . L. H .)
Ancient Reformed Rite . 	A Rite differ-
ing very slightly from the French Rite, or Rite
Modern, of which, indeed, it is said to be only
a modification. It is practised by the Grand
Lodge of Holland and the Grand Orient of
Belgium . 	It was established in 1783 as one
of the results of the Congress of Wilheimsbad .
Ancient of Days . 	A title applied, in the
visions of Daniel, to Jehovah, to signify that
his days are beyond reckoning . Used by
Webb in the Most Excellent Master's song .
"Fulfilled is the promise
By the ANCIENT of DAYS,
To bring forth the cape-stone
With shouting and praise ."
Ancients . 	See Ancient Masons .
Ancient, The . 	The Third Degree of the
German Union of Twenty-two .
Ancient York Masons . One of the names
assumed by the Lodges of Ancient Masons,
which see .
Anderson, James . 	The Rev . James An-
derson, D .D ., is well known to all Masons
as the compiler of the celebrated Book of Con-
stitutions . 	The date and place of his birth
have not yet been discovered with certainty,

58 	ANDERSON
but the date was probably 1680, and the place
Aberdeen in Scotland, 	ere he was educated
and where he probably took the degrees of
M .A . and D .D . 	At some unascertained
period he migrated to London, and our first
precise knowledge of him, derived from a docu-
ment in the State Records, is that on February
15, 1709-10, he as a Presbyterian minister,
took over the ease of a chapel in Swallow
Street, Piccadilly, from a congregation of
French Protestants which desired to dispose
of it because of their decreasing prosperity .
During the following decade he published sev-
eral sermons, and is said to have lost a consid-
erable sum of money dabbling in the South
Sea scheme .
Where and when his connection with Free-
masonry commenced has not yet been discov-
ered, but he must have been a fairly prominent
member of the Craft, because on September
29, 1721, he was ordered by the Grand Lodge,
which had been established in London in 1717,
to " digest the old Gothic Constitutions in a
new and better method ." On the 27th of
December following, his work was finished,
and the Grand Lodge appointed a committee
of fourteen learned brethren to examine and
report upon it . Their report was made on the
25th of March, 1722 ; and, after a few amend-
ments, Anderson's work was formally ap-
proved, and ordered to be printed for the
benefit of the Lodges, which was done in 1723 .
This is now the well-known Book of Consti-
tutions, which contains the history of Ma-
sonry (or, more correctly architecture), the
Ancient Charges, and the General Regulations,
as the same were in use in many old Lodges .
In 1738 a second edition was published . Both
editions have become exceedingly rare, and
copies of them bring fancy prices among the
collectors of old Masonic books . Its intrinsic
value is derived only from the fact that it con-
tains the first printed copy of the Old Charges
and also the General Regulations . The his-
tory of Masonry which precedes these, and
constitutes the body of the work, is fanciful,
unreliable, and pretentious to a de*ree that
often leads to absurdity . The Craft is greatly
indebted to Anderson for his labors in reor-
ganizing the Institution, but doubtless it
would have been better if he had contented
himself with giving the records of the Grand
Lodge from 1717 to 1738, which are contained
in his second edition, and with pr 	for
us the Charges and Regulations, whieh 	out
his industry, might have been lost . No Mar
sonic writer would now venture to quote An-
derson as authority for the history of the
Order anterior to the eighteenth century . It
must also be added that in the republication
of the Old Charges in the edition of 1738, he
made several important alterations and in-
terpolations, which justly gave some offense
to the Grand Lodge, and which render the
second edition of no authority in this respect .
In the year 1723, when his first edition of
the Constitutions appeared, he was Master
of Lodge 17 and he was appointed Grand
Warden, and also became Chaplain to the
ANDRE
Earl of Buchan ; in 1732 he published a volu-
minous work entitled Royal 	, or the
Genealogical Tables of Emperors, 	Kings and
Princes, from Adam to these times ; in 1733 he
issued a theological pamphlet on Unity in
Trinity, and Trinity in Unity ; in 1734 he re-
moved with a part of his congregation from
his chapel in Swallow Street to one in Lisle
Street, Leicester Fields, in consequence of
some difference with his people, the nature of
which is unknown ; in 1735 he represented to
Grand Lodge that a new edition of the Book of
Constitutions was become necessary, and he
was ordered to lay his materials before the
present and former Grand Officers ; in 1738 the
new Book of Constitutions was approved of
by Grand Lodge and ordered to be printed .
Anderson died on May 28, 1739, and was
buried in Bunhill Fields with a Masonic funer-
al, which is thus reported in The Daily Post
of June 2d : "Last night was interr d the
corpse of Dr . Anderson, a Dissenting Teacher,
in a very remarkable deep Grave. His Pall
was supported by five Dissenting Teachers
and the Rev . Dr . Desaguliers : It was followed
by about a Dozen of Free-Masons who en-
circled the Grave ; and after Dr . Earle had
harangued on the Uncertainty of Life, &c .,
without one word of the Deceased, the Breth-
ren in a most solemn dismal Posture, lifted up
their Hands, sigh'd, and struck their aprons
three times in Honour to the Deceased ."
Soon after his death another of his works,
entitled News from Elysium or Dialogues of
the Dead, was issued, and in 1742 there ap-
peared the first volume of a Genealogical His-
tory of the House of Yvery, also from his pen .
[E . L . H .)
Anderson Manuscript . In the first edi-
tion of the Constitutions of the Freemasons,
published by Dr . Anderson in 1723, the author
quotes on pp . 32, 33 from "a certain record of
Freemasons, written in the reign of King Ed-
ward IV ." Preston also cites it in his Illustra-
tions, (p .182, ed . 1788), but states that it is said
to havebeen in the possessionof EliasAshmole,
but was unfortunately destroyed, with other
papers on the subject of Masonry, at the Rev-
olution . Anderson makes no reference to
Ashmole as the owner of the MS ., nor to the
fact of its destruction . If the statement of
Preston was confirmed by other evidence its
title would properly be the " Ashmole MS ." ;
but as it was first mentioned by Anderson, Bro .
Hughan has very properly called it the " An-
derson Manuscript ." It contains the Prince
Edwin legend .
Andre, Christopher Karl . An active
Mason, who resided at Briinn, in Moravia,
where, in 1798, he was the Director of the
Evangelical Academy . He was very zeal-
ously employed, about the end of the last
century, in connection with other distin-
guished Masons, in the propagation of the
Order in Germany . He was the editor and
author of a valuable periodical work, which
was published in 5 numbers, 8vo, from 1793 to
1796, at Gotha and Halle under the title of
Der Freimaurer oder eompendiose Bibliothek

ANDREA
alles Wissenswiirdigen uber geheime Gesell-
schaften 	("The Freemason, or a Compen-
dious Library of everything worthy of notice
in relation to Secret Societies") . Besidesvalu-
able extracts from contemporary Masonic
writers, it contains several essays and treatises
by the editor .
Andrea, John Valentine . 	This distin-
guished philosopher and amiable moralist,
who has been claimed by many writers as the
founder of the Rosicrucian Order, was born
on the 17th of August, 1586, at the small town
of Herrenberg, in Wurttemberg, where his
father exercised clerical functions of a respect-
able rank . After receiving an excellent edu-
cation in his native province, he traveled ex-
tensively through the principal countries of
Europe, and on his return home received the
appointment, in 1614, of deacon in the town of
Vaihingen . Four years after he was pro-
moted to the office of superintendent at Kalw .
In 1639 he was appointed court chaplain and a
spiritual privy councilor, and subsequently
Protestant prelate of Adelberg, and almoner
of the Duke of Wurttemberg. He died on the
27th of June, 1654, at the age of sixty-eight
years .
Andrea was a man of extensive acquire-
ments and of a most feeling heart . By his
great abilities he was enabled to elevate him-
self beyond the narrow limits of the prejudiced
age in which he lived, and his literary labors
were exerted for the reformation of manners,
and for the supply of the moral wants of the
times . 	His writings, although numerous,
were not voluminous, but rather brief essays
full of feeling, judgment, and chaste imagina-
tion, in which great moral, political, and relig-
ious sentiments were clothed in such a lan-
guage of sweetness, and yet told with such
boldness of spirit, that, as Herder says, he
appears, in his contentious and anathematiz-
ing century, like a rose springing up among
thorns . Thus, in his Menippus, one of the
earliest of his works, he has, with great skill
and freedom, attacked the errors of the
Church and of his contemporaries . His Her-
culis Christiani Luctus, xxiv ., is supposed by
some persons to have given indirectly, if not
immediately, hints to John Bunyan for his
Pilgrim's Progress .
One of the most important of his works,
however, or at least one that has attracted
most attention, is his Fama Fraternitatis, pub-
lished in 1615 . This and the Chemische Hoch-
zeit Christiani Rosencreuz, or " Chemical Nup-
tials, by Christian Rosencreuz," which is also
attributed to him, are the first works in which
the Order of the Rosicrucians is mentioned .
Arnold, in his Ketzergeschichte or "History of
Heresy, "contends, from these works, that An-
drea was the founder of the R osicrucian Order ;
others claim a previous existence for it, and
suppose that he was simply an annalist of the
Order ; while a third party deny that any such
Order was existing at the time, or afterward,
but that the whole was a mere mythical rhap-
sody, invented by Andrea as a convenient
vehicle in which to convey his ideas of reform .
ANDROGYNOUS 	59
But the whole of this subject is more fully
discussed under the head of Rosicrucianism,
which see .
Andrew, Apprentice and Fellow-Craft
of St . 	(Fr ., Apprenti et Compagnon de St .
Andre ; Ger ., Andreas lehrling and Geselle .)
The Fourth Degree of the Swedish Rite, which
is almost precisely the same as the Elu Secret
of the French Rite .
Andrew, Cross of St . See Cross, St . An-
drew's .
Andrew, Favorite of St . 	(Fr ., Favori de
St . Andre .) 	Usually called " Knight of the
Purple Collar ." The Ninth Degree of the
Swedish Rite .
Andrew, Grand Scottish Knight of St .
See Knight of St . Andrew .
Androgynous Degrees . 	(From dw$e, a
man, and yvvfi, a woman .) 	Those degrees of
Masonry which are conferred on both men and
women . Besides the degrees of the Adoptive
Rite, which are practised in France, there are
several of these degrees which are, as " side
degrees," conferred in America . Such are
the " Mason's Wife," conferred on the wives,
daughters, sisters, and mothers of Master
Masons, and the "Knight and Heroine of
Jericho," conferred on the wives and daugh-
ters of Royal Arch Masons . A few years ago,
Rob . Morris invented, and very generally
promulgated through the Western States of
this country, a series of androgynous degrees,
which he called "The Star of the East ."
There is another androgynous degree, some-
times conferred on the wives of Royal Arch
Masons, known as the " Good Samaritan ."
In some parts of the United States these
degrees are very popular, while in other places
they are never practised, and are strongly con-
demned as improper innovations . The fact
is, that by their friends as well as by their ene-
mies, these so-called degrees have been greatly
misrepresented . When females are told that
in receiving these degrees they are admitted
into the Masonic Order, and are obtaining
Masonic information under the name of " La,
dies' Masonry," they are simply deceived .
Every woman connected by ties of consan-
guinity to a Master Mason is peculiarly en-
titled to Masonic assistance and protection .
If she is told this, and also told that by these
androgynous degrees she is to be put in pos-
session of the means of making her claims
known by a sort of what may be called oral
testimony, but that she is by their possession
no nearer to the portals of Masonry than she
was before, if she is honestly told this, then
there is no harm, but the possibility of some
good, in these forms if carefully bestowed and
prudently preserved . But all attempts to
make Masonry of them, and especially that
anomalous thing called Co-Masonry, are wrong,
imprudent, and calculated to produce opposi-
tion among the well-informed and cautious
members of the Fraternity .
Androgynous Masonry . 	That so-called
Masonry which is dedicated to the cultivation
of the androgynous degrees . The Adoptive
Rite of France is Androgynous Masonry .

60 	ANGEL
Angel . Angels were originally in the Jew-
ish theogony considered simply as messengers
of God, as the name Malachim imports, and
the word is thus continually used in the early
Scriptures of the Old Testament . It was only
after the captivity that the Jews brought from
Babylon their mystical ideas of angels as in-
struments of creative ministration, such as the
angel of fire, of water, of earth, or of air .
These doctrines they learned from the Chal-
dean sages, who had probably derived them
from Zoroaster and the Zendavesta . In time
these doctrines were borrowed by the Gnostics,
and through them they have been introduced
into some of the high degrees ; such, for in-
stance, as the Knight of the Sun, in whose rit-
ual the angels of the four elements play an
important part .
Angelic Brothers . 	(Ger ., Engelsbriider .)
Sometimes called, after their founder, Gich-
telites or Crichtelianer . 	A mystical sect of re-
ligious fanatics founded by one Gichtel, about
the close of the seventeenth century, in the
United Netherlands . After the death of their
founder in 1710, they gradually became ex-
tinct, or were continued only in secret union
with the Rosicrucians .
Angels' Alphabet . See Alphabet, Angels' .
Angerona . 	The name of a pagan deity
worshiped among the Romans . Pliny calls
her the goddess of silence, and calmness of
mind . Hence her statue has sometimes been
introduced among the ornaments of Masonic
edifices . She is represented with her finger
pressed upon her lips . See Harpocrates, for
what is further to be said upon this symbol .
Angle . The inclination of two lines meet-
ing in a point . Angles are of three kinds-
acute, obtuse, and right angles . The right
angle, or the angle of 90 degrees, is the only
one recognized in Masonry, because it is the
form of the trying square, one of the most im-
portant working tools of the profession, and
the symbol of morality .
Angular Triad . A name given by Oliver
to the three presiding officers of a Royal Arch
Chapter .
Animal Worship . The worship of ani-
mals is a species of idolatry that was especially
practised by the ancient Egyptians . Tem-
ples were erected by this people in their honor,
in which they were fed and cared for during
life ; to kill one of them was a crime punish-
able with death ; and after death, they were
embalmed, and interred in the catacombs 	.
This worship was derived first from the earlier
adoration of the stars, to certain constellations
of which the names of animals had been given ;
next, from an Egyptian tradition that the gods
being pursued by Typhon, had concealed
themselves under the forms of animals ; and
lastly, from the doctrine of the metempsycho-
sis, according to which there was a continual
circulation of the souls of men and animals .
But behind the open and popular exercise of
this degrading worship the priests concealed a
symbolism full of philosophical conceptions .
Mr . Gliddon says in his Otia Egyptiana (p .
94) that " animal worship among the Egyp-
ANNO
tians was the natural and unavoidable conse-
quence of the misconception, by the vulgar,
of those emblematical figures invented by the
priests to record their own philosophical con-
ception of absurd ideas . As the pictures and
effigies suspended in early Christian churches,
to commemorate a person or an event, became
in time objects of worship to the vulgar, so, in
Egypt, the esoteric or spiritual meaning of the
emblems was lost in the gross materialism of
the beholder . This esoteric and allegorical
meaning was, however, preserved by the
priests, and communicated in the mysteries
alone to the initiated, while the uninstructed
retained only the grosser conception ."
Anima Mundi . 	(Soul of the World .) 	A
doctrine of the early philosophers, who con-
ceived that an immaterial force resided in na-
ture and was the source of all physical and sen-
tient life, yet not intelligential .
"Annales Chronologiques (Literairea et
Historiques de la Magonnerie de la Pays-Bas,
A dater de 1 Janvier, 1814," i . e ., Chrono-
logical, Literary, and Historical Annals of the
Masonry of the Netherlands from the year 1814) .
This work, edited by Bros . Melton and De
Margny, was published at Brussels, in five
volumes, during the years 1823-26 . It con-
sists of an immense collection of French,
Dutch, Italian, and English Masonic docu-
ments translated into French . Moss extols
it highly as a work which no Masonic library
should be without . Its publication was un-
fortunately discontinued in 1826 by the Bel-
gian revolution .
Annales Originis Magni Galliarum Ori-
entis, etc . 	This history of the Grand Ori-
ent of France is, in regard to its subject, the
most valuable of the works of C . A . Thory . It
comprises a full account of the rise, progress,
changes, and revolutions of French Freema-
sonry, with numerous curious and inedited
documents, notices of a great number of rites,
a fragment on Adoptive Masonry, and other
articles of an interesting nature . It was pub-
lished at Paris, in 1812, in one vol . of 471 pp .,
8vo . 	(See Moss, No . 4,088 .)
Anniversary . 	See Festivals .
Anno Depositionis . 	In the Year of the
Deposit ; abbreviated A : . Dep .' . 	The date
used by Royal and Select Masters, which is
found by adding 1000 to the Vulgar Era ; thus,
1911 + 1000 = 2911 .
Anno Egyptiano . 	In the Egyptian year .
The date used by the Hermetic Fraternity,
and found by adding 5044 to the Vulgar Era
prior to each July 20th, being the number of
years since the consolidation of the Egyptian
monarchy under Menes .
Anno Hebralco . 	In the Hebrew Year ;
abbreviated A : . H .' . 	The same as Anno
Mundi ; which see .
Anno Inventionis . 	In the Year of the
Discovery ; abbreviated A .' . I .'% or A .'. Inv .' .
The date used by Royal Arch Masons . Found
by adding 530 to the Vulgar Era ; thus, 1911
530 = 2441 .
Anno d ueis . In the Year of Light ; abbre-
viated A : . L : . The date used in ancient Craft

ANNO
Masonry ; found by adding 4000 to the Vulgar
Era ; thus, 1911 + 4000 = 5911 .
Anno Mundl . 	In the Year of the World .
The date used in the Ancient and Accepted
Rite ; found by adding 3760 to the Vulgar Era
until September . After September, add one
year more ; this is because the year used is the
Hebrew one, which begins in September .
Thus, July, 1911 + 3760 = 5671, and October,
1911 + 3760 + 1 = 5672 .
Anno Ordinis . 	In the Year of the Order ;
abbreviated A : .O : . The date used by Knights
Templars ; found by subtracting 1118 from the
Vulgar Era ; thus, 1911 - 1118 = 793 .
Annuaire . 	Some French Lodges publish
annually a record of their most important pro-
ceedings for the past year, and a list of their
members . This publication is called an An-
nuaire, or Annual .
Annual Communication . All the Grand
Lodges of the United States, except those of
Massachusetts, Maryland, the District of
Columbia, and Pennsylvania, hold only one
annual meeting ; thus reviving the ancient
custom of a yearly Grand Assembly . The
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, like that of
England, holds Quarterly Communications .
At these annual communications it is usual to
pay the representatives of the subordinate
Lodges a per diem allowance, which varies in
different Grand Lodges from one to three dol-
lars, and also their mileage or traveling ex-
penses .
Annual 	Proceedings . 	Every 	Grand
Lodge in the United States publishes a full
account of its proceedings at its Annual Com-
munication, to which is also almost always
added a list of the subordinate Lodges and
their members . Some of these Annual Pro-
ceedings extend to a considerable size, and
they are all valuable as giving an accurate and
official account of the condition of Masonry in
each State for the past year . They also fre-
quently contain valuable reports of com-
mittees on questions of Masonic law . The
reports of the Committees of Foreign Corre-
spondence are especially valuable in these
pamphlets . 	(See Committee on Foreign Cor-
respondence .)
Annuities . In England, one of the modes
of distributing the charities of a Lodge is to
grant annuities to aged members or to the
widows and orphans of those who are de-
ceased . In 1842 the" RoyalMasonic Annuity
for Males " was established, which has since
become the "Royal Masonic Benevolent In-
stitution for Aged Freemasons and Their Wid-
ows," and grants annuities to both males and
females, having also an asylum at Croydon in
Surrey, England, into which the annuitants
are received in the order of their seniority on
the list . 	(See Asylum for Aged Freemasons .)
[E . L . H .]
Anointing . 	The act of consecrating any
person or thing by the pouring on of oil . The
ceremony of anointing was emblematical of a
particular sanctification to a holy and sacred
use . As such it was practised by both the
Egyptians and the Jews, and many represen-
ANSYREEH 	61
tations are to be seen among the former of the
performance of this holy Rite . Wilkinson in-
forms us (Anc . Egypt ., iv ., 280) that with the
Egyptians the investiture to any sacred office
was confirmed by this external sign ; and that
priests and kings at the time of their conse-
cration were, after they had been attired in
their full robes, anointed by the pouring of oil
upon the head . The Jewish Scriptures men-
tion several instances in which unction was
administered, as in the consecration of Aaron
as high priest, and of Saul and David, of Sol-
omon and Joash, as kings . The process of
anointing Aaron is fully described in Exodus
(xxix . 7) . After he had been clothed in all his
robes, with the miter and crown upon his
head, it is said, " then shalt thou take the
anointing oil and pour it upon his head, and
anoint him ."
The ceremony is still used in some of the
high degrees of Masonry, and is always recog-
nized as a symbol of sanctification, or the des-
ignation of the person so anointed to a sacred
use, or to the performance of a particular
function . Hence, it forms an important part
of the ceremony of installation of a high priest
in the order of High Priesthood as practised in
America .
As to the form in which the anointing oil
was poured, Buxtorf (Lex . Talm ., p . 267)
quotes the Rabbinical tradition that in the
anointment of kings the oil was poured on the
head in the form of a crown, that is, in a circle
around the head ; while in the anointment of
the priests it was poured in the form of the
Greek letter X, that is, on the top of the head,
in the shape of a St . Andrew's cross .
Anonymous Society . 	A society formerly
existing in Germany, which consisted of 72
members, namely, 24 Apprentices, 24 Fellow-
Crafts, and 24 Masters . It distributed much
charity, but its real object was the cultivation
of the occult sciences . Its members pretended
that its Grand Master was one Tajo, and that
he resided in Spain . 	(ActaLatomorum, i ., 294 . )
Ansyreeh . A sect found in the mountains
of Lebanon, of Northern Syria . Like the
Druses, toward whom, however, they enter-
tain a violent hostility, and the Assassins,
they have a secret mode of recognition and a
secret religion, which does not appear to be
well understood by them . " However," says
Rev . Mr . Lyde, who visited them in 1852,
" there is one in which they all seem agreed,
and which acts as a kind of Freemasonry in
binding together the scattered members of
their body, namely, secret prayers which are
taught to every male child of a certain age,
and are repeated at stated times, in stated
places, and accompanied with religious rites ."
The Ansyreeh arose about the same time with
the Assassins, and, like them, their religion
appears to be an ill-digested mixture of Juda-
ism, Christianity, and Mohammedanism . To
the Masonic scholars these secret sects of
Syria present an interesting study, because of
their supposed connection with the Templars
during the Crusades, the entire results of
which are yet to be investigated .

62 	ANTEDILUVIAN
Antediluvian Masonry . 	Among the tra-
ditions of Masonry, which, taken literally,
become incredible, but which, considered
allegorically, may contain a profound meaning,
not the least remarkable are those which re-
late to the existence of a Masonic system be-
fore the Flood . Thus, Anderson (Const ., 1st
ed ., p . 3) says : "Without regarding uncertain
accounts, we may safely conclude the Old
World, that lasted 1656 years, could not be ig-
norant of Masonry ." Dr . Oliver has devoted
the twenty-eighth lecture in his Historical
Landmarks to an inquiry into " the nature and
design of Freemasonry before the Flood " ;
but he admits that any evidence of the exist-
ence at that time of such an Institution must
be based on the identity of Freemasonry and
morality . 	" We may safely assume," he says,
"that whatever had for its object and
end an inducement to the practice of that
morality which is founded on the love of
God, may be identified with primitive Free-
masonry ."
The truth is, that antediluvian Masonry is
alluded to only in what is called the " ineffa-
ble degrees" ; and that its only important
tradition is that of Enoch, who is traditionally
supposed to be its founder, or, at least, its
great heirophant . (See Enoch .)
Anthem . The anthem was originally a
piece of church music sung by alternate voices .
The word afterward, however, came to be
used as a designation of that kind of sacred
music which consisted of certain passages
taken out of the Scriptures, and adapted to
particular solemnities . In the permanent
poetry and music of Masonry the anthem is
very rarely used . The spirit of Masonic poetry
is lyrical, and therefore the ode is almost
altogether used (except on some special occa-
sions) in the solemnities and ceremonials of
the Order . There are really no Masonic an-
thems .
Antient and Primitive Rite of Masonry,
otherwise of Memphis . 	This rite claims a
derivation from Egypt, and an organization
from the High Grades which had entered
Egypt before the arrival of the French Army,
and it has been asserted that Napoleon and
Kleber were invested with a ring at the hands
of an Egyptian sage at the Pyramid of Cheops .
However that may be, in 1814 the Disciples
of Memphis were constituted as a Grand
Lodge at Montauban in France by G . M .
Marconis and others, being an incorporation
of the various rites worked in the previous
century and especially of the Primitive Rite of
Philadelphes of Narbonne (q . v .) . In the polit-
ical troubles that followed in France the
Lodge of the Disciples of Memphis was p ut to
sleep on March 7, 1816, and remained som-
nolent until July 7, 1838, when J . E . Marconis
was elected Grand Hierophant and arranged
the documents, which the Rite then possessed,
into 90 degrees . The first Assembly of the
Supreme Power was held on September 25,
1838, and proclaimed on October 5th follow-
ing . 	The father of the new Grand Hiero-
phant seems to have been living and to have
ANTI-MASONIC
sanctioned the proceedings . Lodges were
established in Paris and Brussels until the
government of France forbade the meetings
in 1841 ; however, in 1848 work was resumed
and the Rite spread to Roumania, Egypt,
America, and elsewhere .
In 1862 J . E . Marconis united the Rite
with the Grand Orient of France, retaining
apparently the rank of Grand Hierophant ;
and in 1865 a Concordat was executed be-
tween the two bodies by which the rela-
tive value of their different degrees was
settled .
In 1872 a Sovereign Sanctuary of the Rite
was established in England by some American
members with Bro . John Yarker as Grand
Master General, and has since continued at
work .
An official journal entitled The Kneph was
at one time issued by the authority of the
Sovereign Sanctuary, from which we learn
that the Antient and Primitive Rite of Ma-
sonry is " universal and open to every Master
Mason who is in good standing under some
constitutional Grand Lodge, and teaches the
Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of
Man ." The degrees of the Rite are 95 in num-
ber, starting with the three Craft degrees, and
divided into three series, and appear to have
been rearranged and renamed at various
times . 	[E . L . H .]
Anti-Masonic Books . 	There is no coun-
try of the civilized world where Freeman
sonry has existed, in which opposition to
it has not, from time to time, exhibi-
ted itself ; although it has always been
overcome by the purity and innocence
of the Institution . The Roman Catholic
religion has always been anti-Masonic, and
hence edicts have constantly been pro-
mulgated by popes and sovereigns in Roman
Catholic countries against the Order . The
most important of these edicts is the bull
of Pope Clement XII ., which was issued
on the 24th of April, 1738, the authority of
which bull is still in existence, and forbids
any pious Catholic from uniting with a
Masonic Lodge, under the severest penal-
ties of ecclesiastical excommunication .
In the United States, where there are nei-
ther popes to issue bulls nor kings to promul-
gate edicts, the opposition to Freemasonry
had to take the form of a political party .
Such a party was organized in this country in
the year 1826, soon after the disappearance
of one William Morgan . The object of this
party was professedly to put down the Ma-
sonic Institution as subversive of good govern-
ment, but really for the political aggrandize-
ment of its leaders, who used the opposition to
Freemasonr y merely as a stepping-stone to
their own advancement to office . But the pub-
lic virtue of the masses of the American people
repudiated a party which was based on such
corrupt and mercenary views, and its ephem-
eral existence was followed by a total anni-
hilation 	.
A society which has been deemed of so
much importance as to be the victim of so

ANTI-MASONIC
many persecutions, must needs have had its
enemies in the press . It was too good an
Institution not to be abused . Accordingly,
Freemasonry had no sooner taken its com-
manding position as one of the teachers` :of
the world ; than a host of adversaries sprang up
to malign its character and to misrepresent its
objects . Hence, in the catalogue of a Masonic
library, the anti-Masonic books will form no
small part of the collection .
Anti-Masonic works may very properly be
divided into two classes . 1 . Those written
simply for the purposes of abuse, in which the
character and objects of the Institution are
misrepresented . 2 . Those written for the
avowed purpose of revealing its ritual and
esoteric doctrines . The former of these
classes is always instigated by malignity, the
latter by mean cupidity . The former class
alone comes strictly within the category of
" anti-Masonic books," although the two
classes are often confounded ; the attack on
the principles of Masonry being sometimes
accompanied with a pretended revelation
of its mysteries, and, on the other hand,
the pseudo-revelations are not unfrequently
enriched by the most liberal abuse of the In-
stitution .
The earliest authentic work which contains
anything in opposition to Freemasonry is
The Natural History of Staffordshire, by Rob-
ert Plot, which was printed at Oxford in the
year 1686 . 	It is only in one particular part
of the work that Dr . Plot makes any invidious
remarks against the Institution ; and we
should freely forgive him for what he has said
against it, when we know that his recognition
of the existence, in the seventeenth century, of
a society which was already of so much im-
portance that he was compelled to acknowl-
edge that he had " found persons of the most
eminent quality that did not disdain to be of
this fellowship," gives the most ample refu-
tation of those writers who assert that no
traces of the Masonic Institution are to be
found before the beginning of the eighteenth
century. A- triumphant reply to the attack
of Dr . Plot is to be found in the third volume
of Oliver's Golden Remains of the Early Ma-
sonic Writers .
A still more virulent attack on the Order
was made in 1730, by Samuel Prichard, which
he entitled Masonry dissected, being an univer-
sal and genuine description of all its branches
from the original to the present time . 	Toward
the end of the year a reply was issued entitled
A Defence of Masonry, occasioned by a pam-
phlet called Masonry Dissected . It was pub-
lished anonymously, but it has recently been
established that its author was Martin Clare
A .M ., F .R .S ., a schoolmaster of London, who
was a prominent Freemasonfrom 1734 to 1749 .
(Ars Qualuor Coronatorum, iv ., 33-41 .) No
copy of this Defence is known to exist, but it
was reproduced in the Free Masons' Pocket
Companion for 1738, and in the second edition
of the Book of Constitutions, which was pub-
lished in the same year . 	[E . L . IT .]
It is a learned production, well worth peru- i
ANTI-MASONIC 	63
sal for the information that it gives in refer-
ence to the sacred rites of the ancients, inde-
pendent of its polemic character . About this
time the English press was inundated by pre-
tended revelations of the Masonic mysteries,
published under the queerest titles, such as
Jachin and Boaz ; or, An authentic key to the
door of Freemasonry, both Ancient and Modern,
published in 1762 ; Hiram, or the Grand Mas-
ter Key to both Ancient and Modern Free-
masonry, which appeared in 1764 ; The Three
Distinct Knocks, published in 1760, and a
host of others of a similar character, which
were, however, rather intended, by minis-
tering to a morbid and unlawful curiosity, to
put money into the purses of their compilers,
than to gratify any vindictive feelings against
the Institution .
Some, however, of these works were ami-
able neither in their inception nor in their
execution, and appear to have been dictated
by a spirit that may be characterized as being
anything else except Christian . Thus, in the
year 1768, a sermon was preached, we may
suppose, but certainly published, at London,
with the following ominous title : Masonry
the Way to Hell ; a Sermon wherein is clearly
proved, both from Reason and Scripture, that
all who profess the Mysteries are in a State of
Damnation . 	This sermon appears to have
been a favorite with the ascetics, for in less
than two years it was translated into French
and German . But, on the other hand, it gave
offense to the liberal-minded, and many re-
plies to it were written and published, among
which was one entitled Masonry the Turnpike-
Road to Happiness in this Life, and Eternal
Happiness Hereafter, which also found its
translation into German .
In 1797 appeared the notorious work of
John Robison, entitled Proofs of a Conspir-
acy against all the Religions and Governments
of Europe, carried on in the secret meetings
of Freemasons, Illuminati, and Reading So-
cieties . 	Robison was a gentleman and a
scholar of some repute, a professor of natural
philosophy, and Secretary of the Royal So-
ciety of Edinburgh . Hence, although his
theory is based on false premises and his rea-
soning fallacious and illogical, his language is
more decorous and his sentiments less malig-
nant than generally characterize the writers
of anti-Masonic books . A contemporary
critic in the Monthly Review (vol . xxv ., p . 315)
thus correctly estimates the value of his work :
" On the present occasion," says the reviewer,
" we acknowledge that we have felt something
like regret that a lecturer in natural philos-
ophy, of whom his country is so justly proud,
should produce any work of literature by
which his high character for knowledge and
for judgment is liable to be at all depreci-
ated ." Robison's book owes its preservation
at this day from the destruction of time only
to the permanency and importance of the In-
stitution which it sought to destroy, Masonry,
which it vilified, has alone saved it from the
tomb of the Capulets .
This work closed the labors of the anti-

64 	ANTI-MASONIC
Masonic press in England . No work abusive interdicted ." This work was published at
of the Institution of any importance has ap- I Dantzic, in 1764, and was intended as a de-
fense of the decree of the Council of Dantzic
against the Order . The Germans, however,
have given no such ponderous works in be-
half of anti-Masonry as the capacious volumes
of Barruel and Robison. The attacks on the
Order in that country have principally been
by pamphleteers .
In the United States anti-Masonic writings
were scarcely known until they sprung out of
the 1VMorgan excitement in 1826 . The disap-
pearance and alleged abduction of this individ-
ual gave birth to a rancorous opposition to
Masonry, and the country was soon flooded
withant Masonicworks . Most of these were,
however, merely pamphlets, which had only
an ephemeral existence and have long since
been consigned to the service of the trunk-
makers or suffered a literary metempsychosis
in the paper-mill . Two only are worthy, from
their size (their only qualification), for a place
in a Masonic catalogue . The first of these is
entitled Letters on Masonry and Anti-Masonry,
addressed to the Hon . John Quincy Adams . By
WilliamL . Stone . 	This work, which was pub-
lished at New York in 1832, is a large octavo
of 556 pages .
The work of Mr . Stone, it must be acknowl-
edged, is not abusive . If his arguments are
illogical, they are at least conducted without
malignity . 	If his statements are false, his
language is decorous . He was himself a Mason,
and he has been compelled, by the force of
truth, to make many admissions which are
favorable to the Order . The book was evi-
dently written for a political purpose, and to
advance the interests of the anti-Masonic
party . 	It presents, therefore, nothing but
partisan views, and those, too, almost entirely
of a local character, having reference only
to the conduct of the Institution as exhibited
in what is called " the Morgan affair ." Ma-
sonry, according to Mr . Stone, should be
suppressed because a few of its members
are supposed to have violated the laws in
a village of the State of New York . As
well might the vices of the Christians of
Corinth have suggested to a contemporary
of St . Paul the propriety of suppressing
Christianity .
The next anti-Masonic work of any prom-
inence published in this country is also in the
epistolary style, and is entitled Letters on the
Masonic Institution . By John Quincy Adams .
It is an octavo of 284 pages, and was published
at Boston in 1847 . Mr . Adams, whose emi-
nent public services have made his life a part
of the history of his country, has very prop-
erly been described as "a man of strong
points and weak ones, of vast reading and
wonderful memory, of great credulity and
strong prejudice ." In the latter years of his
life, he became notorious for his virulent oppo-
sition to Freemasonry . Deceived and excited
by the misrepresentations of the anti-Masons,
he united himself with that party, and threw
all his vast energies and abilities into the polit-
ical contests then waging . The result was this
peared in that country since the attack of
Robison . The Manuals of Richard Carlile
and the Theologico-astronomical sermons of
the Rev . Robert Taylor are the productions of
men who do not profess to be the enemies of
the Order, but who have sought, by their
peculiar views, to give to Freemasonry an
origin, a design, and an interpretation
different from that which is received as
the general sense of the Fraternity . The
works of these writers, although erroneous,
are not inimical .
The French press was prolific in the pro-
duction of anti-Masonic publications . Com-
mencing with La Grande Lumiere, which was
published at Paris, in 1734, soon after the
modern introduction of Masonry into France,
but brief intervals elapsed without the ap-
pearance of some work adverse to the Masonic
Institution . But the most important of these
was certainly the ponderous effort of the Anbe
Barruel, published in four volumes, in 1797,
under the title of Memoires pour servir a l'his-
toire du Jacobinisme . 	The French Revolu-
tion was at the time an accomplished fact .
The Bourbons had passed away, and Barrucl,
as a priest and a royalist, was indignant at
the change, and, in the bitterness of his rage,
he charged the whole inception and success of
the political movement to the machinations of
the Freemasons, whose Lodges, he asserted,
were only Jacobinical clubs . The general
scope of his argument was the same as that
which was pursued by Professor Robison -
but while both were false in their facts and
fallacious in their reasoning, the Scotchman
was calm and dispassionate, while the French-
man was vehement and abusive . No work,
perhaps, was ever printed which contains so
many deliberate misstatements as disgrace
the pages of Barruel. Unfortunately, the work
was, soon after its appearance, translated into
English . It is still to be found on the
shelves of Masonic students and curious
work collectors, as a singular specimen of
the extent of folly and falsehood to which
one may be led by the influences of bitter
party prejudices .
The anti-Masonic writings of Italy and
Spain have, with the exception of a few trans-
lations from French and English authors, con-
sisted only of bulls issued by popes and edicts
pronounced by the Inquisition . The anti-
Masons of those countries had it all their own
way, and, scarcely descending to argument or
even to abuse, contented themselves with
practical persecution .'
In Germany, the attacks on Freemasonry
were less frequent than in England or France 	.
Still there were some, and among them may be
mentioned one whose very title would leave
no room to doubt of its anti-Masonic charac-
ter . 	It is entitled Beweiss dass die Frei-
maurer-Gesellschaft in alien Staaten, u . s . w .,
that is, " Proofs that the Society of Freema-
sons is in every country not only useless, but,
if not restricted, dangerous, and ought to be
ANTI-MASONIC

ANTI-MASONIC
series of letters, abusive of the Masonic In-
stitution, which he directed to leading poli-
ticians of the country, and which were pub-
lished in the public journals from 1831 to 1833 .
These letters, which are utterly unworthy of
the genius, learning, and eloquence of the
author, display a most egregious ignorance of
the whole design and character of the Masonic
Institution . The " oath " and " the murder of
Morgan " are the two bugbears which seem
continually to float before the excited vision
of the writer, and on these alone he dwells
from the first to the last page .
Except the letters of Stone and Adams,
there is hardly another anti-Masonic book
published in America that can go beyond the
literary dignity of a respectably sized pam-
phlet . A compilation of anti-Masonic docu-
ments was published at Boston, in 1830, by
James C . Odiorne, who has thus in part pre-
served for future reference the best of a bad
class of writings . In 1831, Henry Gassett, of
Boston, a most virulent anti-Mason, distrib-
uted, at his own expense, a great number of
anti-Masonic books, which had been pub-
lished during the Morgan excitement, to the
principal libraries of the United States, on
whose shelves they are probably now lying
covered with dust ; and, that the memory of
his good deed might not altogether be lost, he
published a catalogue of these donations in
1852, to which he has prefixed an attack on
Masonry .
Anti-Masonic Party . 	A party organized
in the United States of America soon after the
commencement of the Morgan excitement,
professedly, to put down the Masonic Institu-
tion as subversive of good government, but
really for the political aggrandizement of its
leaders, who used the opposition to Free-
masonry merely as a stepping-stone to their
own advancement to office . The party held
several conventions ; endeavored, sometimes
successfully, but oftener unsuccessfully, to en-
list 'prominent statesmen in its ranks, and
finally, in 1831, nominated William Wirt and
Amos Ellmaker as its candidates for the Pres-
idency and the Vice-Presidency of the United
States . Each of these gentlemen received but
seven votes, being the whole electoral vote of
Vermont, which was the only State that voted
for them . 	So signal a defeat was the death-
blow of the party, that in the year 1833 it
quietly withdrew from public notice, and now
is happily no longer in existence . William L 	.
Stone, the historian of anti-Masonry, has with
commendable impartiality expressed his opin-
ion of the character of this party, when he says
that " the fact is not to be disguised-contra-
dicted it cannot be-that anti-Masonry had
become thoroughly political, and its spirit was
vindictive towards the Freemasons without
distinction as to guilt or innocence ." (Letters,
xxxviii ., p . 418 .) Notwithstanding the oppo-
sition that from time to time has been exhib-
ited to Freemasonry in every country, Amer-
ica is the only one where it assumed the form
of a political party . 	This, however, may very
justly be attributed to the peculiar nature of
ANTIQUITY 	65
its popular institutions . 	There, the ballot-
box is considered the most potent engine for
the government of rulers as well as people, and
is, therefore, resorted to in cases in which, in
more despotic governments, the powers of the
Church and State would be exercised . Hence,
the anti-Masonic convention held at Phila-
delphia, in 1830, did not hesitate to make the
following declaration as the cardinal principle
of the party . 	" The object of anti-Masonry,
in nominating and electing candidates for the
Presidency and Vice-Presidency, is to deprive
Masonry of the support which it derives from
the power and patronage of the executive
branch of the United States Government . To
effect this object, will require that candidates
besides possessing the talents and virtues
requisite for such exalted stations, be known
as men decidedly opposed to secret societies ."
This issue having been thus boldly made was
accepted by the people ; and as principles like
these were fundamentally opposed to all the
ideas of liberty, personal and political, into
which the citizens of the country had been in-
doctrinated, the battle was made, and the
anti-Masonic party was not only defeated for
the time, but forever annihilated .
Anti-Masonry . 	Opposition to Freema-
sonry . There is no country in which Masonry
has ever existed in which this opposition has
not from time to time exhibited itself ; al-
though, in general, it has been overcome by
the purity and innocence of the Institution .
The earliest opposition by a government, of
which we have any record, is that of 1425,
in the third year of the reign of Henry VI ., of
England, when the Masons were forbidden to
confederate in Chapters and Congregations .
This law was, however, never executed . Since
that period, Freemasonry has met with no
permanent 	opposition 	in 	England . The
Roman Catholic religion has always been anti-
Masonic, and hence edicts have always ex-
isted in the Roman Catholic countries against
the Order . But the anti-Masonry which has
had a practical effect in inducing the Church
or the State to interfere with the Institution,
and endeavor to suppress it, will come more
properly under the head of Persecutions, to
which the reader is referred .
Antin, Duke d' . Elected perpetual Grand
Master of the Masons of France, on the 24th
of June, 1 .738 . 	He held the office until 1743,
when he died, and was succeeded by the Count
of Clermont . 	Clavel (Hist . Pittoresq ., p .
141)' relates an instance of the fidelity and
intrepidity with which, on one occasion, he
guarded the avenues of the Lodge from the
official intrusion of a commissary of police
accompanied by a band of soldiers .
Antipodeans . 	(Les Antipodiens .) 	The
name of the Sixtieth Degree of the seventh
series of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France . 	(Acta Latomorum, i .,
294 .)
Antiquity, Lodge of . 	The oldest Lodge
in England, and one of the four which con-
curred in February, 1717, in the meeting at
the Apple-Tree Tavern, London, in the forma-

66 	ANTIQUITY
tion of the Grand Lodge of England . At that
time, the Lodge of Antiquity met at the Goose
and Gridiron, in St . Paul's Church-yard .
This Lodge and three others met on St . John
Baptist's Day (June 24), 1717, at the Goose
and Gridiron Tavern, and by a majority of
hands elected Mr . Anthony Sayer Grand
Master, he being the oldest Master present .
Capt . Joseph Elliot, and Mr . Jacob Lamball,
carpenter, he elected Grand Wardens . This
and the other three Lodges did not derive
their warrants from the Grand Lodge, but
" acted by immemorable Constitution ."
Antiquity Manuscript . This celebrated
MS . is now, and has long been, in the posses-
sion of the Lodge of Antiquity, at London . It
is stated in the subscription to have been
written, in 1686, by " Robert Padgett, Clearke
to the Worshipful Society of the Freemasons
of the city of London ." The whole manu-
script was first published by W . J . Hughan in
his Old Charges of British Freemasons (p . 64),
but a part had been previously inserted by
Preston in his Illustrations (b . ii ., s ect . v i .) .
And here we have evidence of a criminal in-
accuracy of the Masonic writers of the last
century, who never hesitated to alter or in-
terpolate passages in old documents when-
ever it was required to confirm a precon-
ceived theory . Thus, Preston had intimated
that there was before 1717 an Installation
ceremony for newly elected Masters of Lodges
(which is not true), and inserts what he calls
" the ancient Charges that were used on this
occasion," taken from the MS . of the Lodge
of Antiquity . To confirm the statement,
that they were used for this purpose, he cites
the conclusion of the MS . in the following
words : " These be all the charges and cove-
nants that ought to be read at the installment
of Master, or making of a Freemason or Free-
masons ." The words in italics are not to be
found in the original MS ., but were inserted
by Preston . Bro . E . Jackson Barron had an
exact transcript made of this MS ., which he
carefully collated, and which was published
by Bro . Hughan . Bro . Barron gives the fol-
lowmg description of the document :
" The MS . copy of the Charges of Free-
masons is on a roll of parchment nine feet
long by eleven inches wide, the roll being
formed of four pieces of parchment glued to-
gether ; and some few years ago it was par-
tially mounted (but not very skilfully) on a
backing of parchment for its better preserva-
tion .
"The' Rolls are headed by an engraving of
the Royal Arms, after the fashion usual in
deeds of the period ; the date of the engraving
in this case being fixed by the initials at the
top, Under this engraving are emblazoned in
separate shields the Arms of the city of Lon-
don, which are two well known to require
description, and the Arms of the Masons
Company of London, Sable on a chevron be-
tween three castles argent, a pair of compasses
of the first surrounded by appropriate mantling .
"The writing is a good specimen of the
ANTIQUITY
ordinary law writing of the times, inter-
spersed with words in text . There is a mar-
gin of about an inch on the left side, which is
marked by a continuous double red ink line
throughout, and there are similar double lines
down both edges of the parchment . The
letter U is used throughout the MS . for V,
with but two or three exceptions ." (Hugh-
an's Old Charges, 1872, p . 14 .)
Antiquity of Freemasonry . Years ago
in writing an article on this subject under the
impressions made upon me by the fascinating
theories of Dr . Oliver, though I never com-
pletely accepted his views, I was led to place
the organization of Freemasonry, as it now
exists, at the building of Solomon's Temple .
Many years of subsequent research have led
me greatly to modify the views I had previ-
ously held . Although I do not rank myself
among those modern iconoclasts who refuse
credence to every document whose authen-
ticity, if admitted, would give to the Order a
birth anterior to the beginning of the last
century, I confess that I cannot find any in-
controvertible evidence that would trace Ma ;
sonry, as now organized, beyond the Building
Corporations of the Middle Ages . In this
point of view I speak of it only as an archi-
tectural brotherhood, distinguished by signs,
by words, and by brotherly ties which have
not been essentially changed, and by sym-
bols and legends which have only been de-
veloped and extended, while the association
has undergone a transformation from an
operative art to a speculative science .
But then these Building Corporations did
not spring up in all their peculiar organization
-different, as it was, from that of other
guilds-like Autochthones, from the soil .
They, too, must have had an origin and an
archetype, from which they derived their
peculiar character . And I am induced, for
that purpose, to look to the Roman Colleges
of Artificers, which were spread over Europe
by the invading forces of the empire . But
these have been traced to Numa, who gave
to them that mixed practical and religious
character which they are known to have
possessed, and in which they were imitated by
the medieval architects .
We must, therefore look at Freemasonry in
two distinct points ofview : First, as it is-a
society of Speculative Architects engaged in
the construction of spiritual temples, and in
this respect a development from the Operative
Architects of the tenth and succeeding cen-
turies, who were themselves offshoots from the
Traveling Freemasons of Como, who traced
their origin to the Roman Colleges of Builders .
In this direction, I think, the line of descent is
plain, without any demand upon our credulity
for assent to its credibility .
But Freemasonry must be looked at also
from another standpoint . Not only does it
present the appearance of a speculative
science, based on an operative art, but it also
very significantly exhibits itself as the symbolic
expression of a religious idea . 	In other and
plainer words, we see in it the important

ANTIQUITY
lesson of eternal life, taught by a legend which,
whether true or false, is used in Masonry as a
symbol and an allegory .
But whence came this legend? Was it in-
vented in 1717 at the revival of Freemasonry
in England? We have evidence of the
strongest circumstantial character, derived
from the Sloane Manuscript No . 3,329, re-
cently exhumed from the shelves of the
British Museum, that this very legend was
known to the Masons of the seventeenth
century at least .
Then, did the Operative Masons of the
Middle Ages have a legend also? The evi-
dence is that they did . The Compagnons de
la Tour, who were the offshoots of the old
Masters' Guilds, had a legend . We know
what the legend was, and we know that its
character was similar to, although not in all
the details precisely the same as, the Masonic
legend . It was, however, connected with the
Temple of Solomon .
Again : Did the builders of the Middle Ages
invent their legend, or did they obtain it from
some old tradition? The question is interest-
ing, but its solution either way would scarcely
affect the Antiquity of Freemasonry . It is
not the form of the legend, but its spirit and
symbolic design, with which we have to do .
This legend of the Third Degree as we now
havee it, and as we have had it for a certain
period of two hundred and fifty years, is in-
tended, by a symbolic representation, to teach
the resurrection from death, and the Divine
dogma of eternal life . All Masons know its
character, and it is neither expedient nor
necessary to dilate upon it .
But can we find such a legend elsewhere?
Certainly we can . Not indeed the same
legend ; not the same personage as its hero ; not
the same details ; but a legend with the same
spirit and design ; a legend funereal in char-
acter, celebrating death and resurrection,
solemnized in lamentation and terminating in
joy . Thus, in the Egyptian Mysteries of
Osiris, the image of a dead man was borne in
an argha, ark or coffin, by a procession of
initiates ; and this enclosure in the coffin or
interment of the body was called the aphan-
ism, or disappearance, and the lamentation
for him formed the first part of the Mysteries .
On the third day after the interment, the
priests and initiates carried the coffin, in which
was also a golden vessel, down to the river
Nile . 	Into the vessel they poured water from
the river ; and then with a cry of `Evpfpcaμev
ayaAAc eea, " We have found him, let us
rejoice," they declared that the dead Osiris,
who had descended into Hades, had returned
from thence, and was restored again to life ; and
the rejoicings which ensued constituted the
second part of the Mysteries . The analogy
between this and the legend of Freemasonry
must be at once apparent . Now, just such a
legend, everywhere differing in particulars,
but everywhere coinciding in general char-
acter, is to be found in all the old religions-
in sun worship, in tree worship in animal
worship . It was often perverted, it is true,
ANTIQUITY 	67
from the original design . Sometimes it was
applied to the death of winter and the birth of
spring, sometimes to the setting and the sub-
sequent rising of the sun, but always indicat-
ing a loss and a recovery .
Especially do we find this legend, and in a
purer form, in the Ancient Mysteries . At
Samothrace, at Eleusis, at Byblos-in all
places where these ancient religions and mys-
tical rites were celebrated-we find the same
teachings of eternal life inculcated by the
representation of an imaginary death and
apotheosis . And it is this legend, and this
legend alone, that connects Speculative Free-
masonry with the Ancient Mysteries of Greece,
of Syria, and of Egypt .
The theory, then, that I advance on the
subject of the Antiquity of Freemasonry is
this : I maintain that, in its present peculiar
organization, it is the successor, with cer-
tainty, of the Building Corporations of the
Middle Ages, and through them, with less
certainty but with great probability, of the
Roman Colleges of Artificers . Its connection
with the Temple of Solomon, as its birthplace,
may have been accidental-a mere arbitrary
selection by its inventors-and bears, there-
fore, only an allegorical meaning ; or it may be
historical, and to be explained by the frequent
communications that at one time took place
between the Jews and the Greeks and the
Romans . This is a point still open for dis-
cussion . On it I express no fixed opinion .
The historical materials upon which to base
an opinion are as yet too scanty . But I am
inclined, I confess, to view the Temple of
Jerusalem and the Masonic traditions con-
nected with it as a part of the great allegory
of Masonry .
But in the other aspect in which Freema-
sonry presents itself to our view, and to which
I have already adverted, the question of its
antiquity is more easily settled . As a
brotherhood, composed of symbolic Masters
and Fellows and Apprentices, derived from an
association of Operative Masters, Fellows,
and Apprentices-those building spiritual
temples as these built material ones-its age
may not exceed five or six hundred years ; but
as a secret association, containing within itself
the symbolic expression of a religious idea, it
connects itself with all the Ancient Mysteries,
which, with similar secrecy, gave the same
symbolic expression to the same religious
idea . 	These Mysteries were not the cradles
of Freemasonry : they were only its analogues .
But I have no doubt that all the Mysteries
had one common source, perhaps, as it has
been suggested, some ancient body of priests ;
and I have no more doubt that Freemasonry
has derived its legend, its symbolic mode of in-
struction, and the lesson for which that in-
struction was intended, either directly or in-
directly from the same source . In this view
the Mysteries become interesting to the Ma-
son as a study, and in this view only . And so,
when I speak of the Antiquity of Masonry, I
must say, if I would respect the axioms of
historical science, that its body came out of

68 	ANTON
the Middle Ages, but that its spirit is to be
traced to a far remoter period .
Anton, Dr . Carl Gottlob von . 	A Ger-
man Masonic writer of considerable reputa-
tion, who died at Gorlitz on the 17th of
November, 1818 . He is the author of two
historical works on Templarism, both of which
are much esteemed . 	1 . Versuch einer Gea-
chichte des Tempelherren ordens (i . e ., An Essay
on the Order of Knights Templars), Leipzig,
1779 . 	2 . Untersuchuny lime des Gi,n-
sass and die Gebrauche der Tempelherren
(i . e ., An Inquiry into the Mystery and Usages
of the Knights Templars), Dessau, 1782 . He
also published at Gorlitz, in 1805, and again
in 1819, A brief essay on the Culdees ( Ueber
die Culdeer) .
Anton Hieronymus . 	In the examination
of a German " steinmetz," or STONEMASON,
this is said to have been the name of the first
Mason . 	It is unquestionably a corruption
of Adon Hiram .
Anubis or Anepu . 	Egyptian deity, son
of Osiris and Nephthys . The Greek Hermes .
Having the head of a jackal, with pointed ears
and snout, which tile Greeks frequently
changed to those of a dog . At times repre-
sented as wearing a double crown . His duty
was to accompany the souls of the deceased to
Hades (Amenthes), and assist Horns in weigh-
ing their actions under the inspection of Osiris .
Ape and Lion, Knight of the . See
Knight of the Ape and Lion .
Apex, Rite of . 	See Sat B'hai, Order of .
Aphanism . 	In the Ancient Mysteries,
there was always a legend of the death or dis-
appearance of some hero god, and the subse-
quent discovery of the body and its resurrec-
tion . 	The concealment of this body by those
who had slain it was called the aphanism,
from the Greek, a¢av&Cw, to conceal . 	As
these Mysteries may be considered as a type
of Masonry, as some suppose, and as, accord-
ing to others, both the Mysteries and Masonry
are derived from one common and ancient
type, the aphanism, or concealing of the body,
is of course to be found in the Third Degree .
Indeed, the purest kind of Masonic aphanism
is the loss or concealment of the worn . (See
Mysteries, and Euresis .)
Apis . 	The sacred bull, held in high rever-
ence by the Egyptians as possessing Divine
powers, especially the gift of prophecy . As it
was deemed essential the animal should be
peculiarly marked by nature, much difficulty
was experienced in procuring it . The bull
was required to be black, with a white triangle
on its forehead, a white crescent on its side,
and a knotted growth, like a searabaeus, under
the tongue . Such an animal being found, it
was fed for four months in a building facing
the East . At new moon it was embarked on
a special vessel, prepared with exquisite care,
and with solemn ceremony conveyed to Heli-
opolis, where for forty days it was fed by
priests and women . In its sanctified condi-
tion it was taken to Memphis and housed in
a temple with two chapels and a court wherein
to exercise . The omen was good or evil in
APOCALYPSE
accordance with which chapel it entered from
the court . At the age of 25 years it was led
to its death, amid great mourning and lamen-
tations . The bull or apis was an important
religious factor in the Isian worship, and was
continued as a creature of reverence during
the Roman domination of Egypt .
Apocalypse, Masonry of the . 	The adop-
tion of St . John the Evangelist as one of the
patrons of our Lodges, has given rise, among
the writers on Freemasonry, to a variety of
theories as to the original cause of his being
thus connected with the Institution . Several
traditions have been handed down from re-
mote periods, which claim him as a brother,
among which the Masonic student will be
familiar with that which represents him as
having assumed the government of the Craft,
as Grand Master, after the demise of John the
Baptist . I confess that I am not willing to
place implicit confidence in the correctness of
this legend, and I candidly subscribe to the
prudence of Dalcho's remark, that " it is un-
wise to assert more than we can prove, and to
argue against probability ." There must have
been, however, in some way, a connection
more or less direct between the Evangelist and
the institution of Freemasonry, or he would
not from the earliest times have been so
universally claimed as one of its patrons . If
it was simply a Christian feeling-a religious
veneration-which gave rise to this general
homage, I see no reason why St . Matthew
St . Mark, or St . Luke might not as readily ant
appropriately have been selected as one of the
" lines parallel ." But the fact is that there is
something, both in the life and in the writings
of St . John the Evangelist, which closely con-
nects him with our mystic Institution . He
may not have been a Freemason in the sense
in which we now use the term ; but it will be
sufficient, if it can be shown that he was
familiar with other mystical institutions,
which are themselves generally a dm itted to
have been more or less intimately connected
with Freemasonry by deriving their existence
from a common origin .
Such a society was the Essenian Fraternity
-a mystical association of speculative philos-
ophers among the Jews, whose organization
very closely resembled that of the Freema-
sons, and who are even supposed by some to
have derived their tenets and their discipline
from the builders of the Temple . As Oliver
observes, their institution " may be termed
Freemasonry, retaining the same form but
practised under another name ." Now there
is little doubt that St . John was an Essene .
Calmet positively asserts it ; and the writings
and life of St . John seem to furnish sufficient
internal evidence that he was originally of
that brotherhood .
But it seems to me that St . John was more
particularly selected as a patron of Freema-
sonry in consequence of the mysterious and
emblematic nature of the Apocalypse, which
evidently assimilated the mode of teaching
adopted by the Evangelist to that practise
by the Fraternity . If anyone who has in-

APOCALYPSE
vestigated the ceremonies performed in the
Ancient Mysteries, the Spurious Freemasonry,
as it has been called, of the Pagans, will com-
pare them with the mystical machinery used
in the Book of Revelations, he will find him-
self irresistibly led to the conclusion that
St . John the Evangelist was intimately ac-
quainted with the whole process of initiation
into these mystic associations, and that he
has selected its imagery for the ground-work
of his prophetic book . Mr . Faber, in his
Origin of Pagan Idolatry (vol . ii ., b . vi ., ch .
6), has, with great ability and clearness, shown
that St . John in the Apocalypse applies the
ritual of the ancient initiations to a spiritual
and prophetic purpose .
" The whole machinery of the Apocalypse,"
says Mr . Faber, " from beginning to end,
seems to me very plainly to have been bor-
rowed from the machinery of the Ancient
Mysteries ; and this, if we consider the nature
of the subject, was done with the very strictest
attention to poetical decorum .
" St . John himself is made to personate an
aspirant about to be initiated ; and, accord-
ingly, the images presented to his mind's eye
closely resemble the pageants of the Myster-
ies both in nature and in order of succession .
" The prophet first beholds a door opened in
the magnificent temple of heaven ; and into
this he is invited to enter by the voice of one
who plays the hierophant . 	Here he witnesses
the unsealing of a sacred book, and forthwith
he is appalled by a troop of ghastly apparitions,
which flit in horrid succession before his eyes .
Among these are preeminently conspicuous a
vast serpent, the well-known symbol of the
great father ; and two portentous wild beasts,
which severally come up out of the sea and out
of the earth . Such hideous figures correspond
with the canine phantoms of the Orgies, which
seem to rise out of the ground, and with the
polymorphic images of the hero god who was
universally deemed the offspring of the sea .
" Passing these terrific monsters in safety,
the prophet, constantly attended by his angel
hierophant, who acts the part of an interpreter,
is conducted into the presence of a female, who
is described as closely resembling the great
mother of pagan theology . Like Isis emerg-
ing from the sea and exhibiting herself to the
aspirant Apuleius, this female divinity, up-
borne upon the marine wild beast, appears to
float upon the surface of many waters . She is
said to be an open and systematical harlot, just
as the great mother was the declared female
principle of fecundity ; and as she was always
propitiated by literal fornication reduced to a
religious system, and as the initiated were
made to drink a prepared liquor out of a sacred
goblet, so this harlot is represented as in-
toxicating the kings of the earth with the
golden cup of her prostitution . On her fore-
head the very name of MYSTERY is inscribed ;
and the label teaches us that, in point of char-
acter, she is the great universal mother of
idolatry .
" The nature of this mystery the of ciating
hierophant undertakes to explain ; and an im-
APOCALYPTIC 	69
portant prophecy is most curiously and art-
fully veiled under the very language and
imagery of the Orgies . To the sea-born great
father was ascribed a threefold state-he lived,
he died, and he revived ; and these changes of
condition were duly exhibited in the Mys-
teries . To the sea-born wild beast is simi-
larly ascribed a threefold state-he lives, he
dies, he revives . 	While dead, he lies floating
on the mighty ocean, just like Horns or Osiris,
or Siva or Vishnu . When he revives again,
like those kindred deities, he emerges from the
waves ; and, whether dead or alive, he bears
seven heads and ten horns, corresponding in
number with the seven ark-preserved Rishis
and the ten aboriginal patriarchs . Nor is this
all : as the worshipers of the great father bore
his special mark or stigma, and were distin-
guished by his name, so the worshipers of the
maritime beast equally bear his mark and are
equally decorated by his appellation .
" At length, however, the first or doleful part
of these sacred Mysteries draws to a close, and
the last or joyful part is rapidly approaching .
After the prophet has beheld the enemies of
God plunged into a dreadful lake or inunda-
tion of liquid fire, which corresponds with the
infernal lake or deluge of the Orgies, he is
introduced into a splendidly-illuminated region,
expressly adorned with the characteristics of
that Paradise which was the ultimate scope of
the ancient aspirants ; while without the holy
gate of admission are the whole multitude of
the profane, dogs, and sorcerors, and whore-
mongers, and murderers, and idolators, and who-
soever loveth and maketh a lie ."
Such was the imagery of the Apocalypse .
The close resemblance to the machinery of the
Mysteries, and the intimate connection be-
tween their system and that of Freemasonry,
very naturally induced our ancient brethren
to claim the patronage of an apostle so pre-
eminently mystical in his writings, and whose
last and crowning work bore so much of the
appearance, in an outward form, of a ritual of
initiation .
Apocalypse, Order of the . 	An Order
instituted about the end of the seventeenth
century, by one Gabrino, who called himself
the Prince of the Septenary Number or Mon-
arch of the Holy Trinity . He enrolled a great
number of artisans in his ranks who went
about their ordinary occupations with swords
at their sides . According to Thory, some of
the provincial Lodges of France made a degree
out of Gabrino's system . The arms of the
Order were a naked sword and a blazing star .
(ActaLatomorum, i ., 294 .) 	Reghellini (iii ., 72)
thinks that this Order was the precursor of the
degrees afterward introduced by the Masons
who practised the Templar system .
Apocalyptic 	Degrees . 	Those 	degrees
which are founded on the Revelation of St .
John, or whose symbols and machinery of
initiation are derived from that work, are
called Apocalyptic degrees . Of this nature
are several of the high degrees : such, for
instance, as the Seventeenth, or Knight of
the East and West of the Scottish Rite .

70 	APORRHETA
Aporrheta . 	Greek, aa6ppnTa . 	The holy
things in the Ancient Mysteries which were
known only to the initiates, and were not to
be disclosed to the profane, were called the
aporrheta . 	What are the aporrheta of Free-
masonry? what are the arcana of which there
can be no disclosure? is a question that for
some years past has given rise to much dis-
cussion among the disciples of the Institution .
If the sphere and number of these aporrheta
be very considerably extended, it is evident
that much valuable investigation by public
discussion of the science of Masonry will be
prohibited . On the other hand, if the apor-
rheta are restricted to only a few points, much
of the beauty, the permanency, and the effi-
cacy of Freemasonry which are dependent on
its organization as a secret and mystical as-
sociation will be lost . 	We move between
Scylla and Charybdis, and it is difficult for a
Masonic writer to know how to steer so as, in
avoiding too frank an exposition of the prin-
ciples of the Order, not to fall by too much
reticence, into obscurity . The European Ma-
sons are far more liberal in their views of the
obligation of secrecy than the English or the
American . There are few things, indeed,
which a French or German Masonic writer
will refuse to discuss with the utmost frank-
ness . 	It is now beginning to be very gen-
erally admitted, and English and American
writers are acting on the admission, that the
only real aporrheta of Freemasonry are the
modes of recognition, and the peculiar and
distinctive ceremonies of the Order ; and to
these last it is claimed that reference may be
publicly made for the purpose of scientific
investigation, provided that the reference be
so made as to be obscure to the profane, and
-intelligible only to the initiated .
Appeal, Right of . 	The right of appeal is
an inherent right belonging to every Mason,
and the Grand Lodge is the appellate body
to whom the appeal is to be made .
Appeals are of two kinds : 1st, from the de-
cision of the Master ; 2d, from the decision
of the Lodge . Each of these will require a
distinct consideration .
1 . Appeals from the Decision of the Master .
It is now a settled doctrine in Masonic law that
there can be no appeal from the decision of a
Master of a Lodge to the Lodge itself . But
an appeal always lies from such decision to
the Grand Lodge, which is bound to entertain
the appeal and to inquire into the correctness
of the decision . Some writers have endeav-
ored to restrain the despotic authority of the
Master to decisions in matters strictly relating
to the work of the Lodge, while they contend
that on all questions of business an appeal
may be taken from his decision to the Lodge .
But it would be unsafe, and often impracti-
cable, to draw this distinction, and accordingly
the highest Masonic authorities have rejected
the theory, and denied the power in a Lodge
to entertain an appeal from any decision of the
presiding officer .
The wisdom of this law must be apparent
to anyone who examines the nature of the or-
APPRENTICE
ganization of the Masonic Institution . The
Master is responsible to the Grand Lodge for
the good conduct of his Lodge . To him and
to him alone the supreme Masonic authority
looks for the preservation of order, and the
observance of the Constitutions and the Land-
marks of the Order in the body over which he
presides . It is manifest, then, that it would
be highly unjust to throw around a presiding
officer so heavy a responsibility, if it were in
the power of the Lodge to overrule his de-
cisions or to control his authority .
2 . Appeals from the Decisions of the Lodge .
Appeals may be made to the Grand Lodge
from the decisions of a Lodge, on any subject
except the admission of members, or the elec-
tion of candidates ; but these appeals are more
frequently made in reference to conviction and
punishment after trial .
When a Mason, in consequence of charges
preferred against him, has been tried, con-
victed, and sentenced by his Lodge, he has
an inalienable right to appeal to the Grand
Lodge from such conviction and sentence .
His appeal may be either general or specific .
That is, he may appeal on the ground, gen-
erally, that the whole of the proceedings have
been irregular or illegal, or he may appeal
specifically against some particular portion
of the trial ; or lastly, admitting the correct-
ness of the verdict, and acknowledging the
truth of the charges, he may appeal from the
sentence, as being too severe or disproportion-
ate to the offense .
Appendant Orders . 	In the Templar
system of the United States, the degrees of
Knight of the Red Cross and Knight of Malta
are called Appendant Orders because they are
conferred as appendages to that of Knight
Templar, which is the principal degree of the
Commandery .
Apple-Tree Tavern . 	The place where the
four Lodges of London met in 1717, and or-
ganized the Grand Lodge of England . It was
situated in Charles Street, Covent Garden .
Apprenti . 	French for Apprentice .
Apprentice . 	See Apprentice, Entered .
Apprentice Architect . 	(Apprenti Archi-
tecte .) 	A degree in the collection of Fustier .
Apprentice Architect, Perfect . 	(Ap-
prenti Architecte, Parfait .) 	A degree in the
collection of Le Page .
Apprentice Architect, Prussian . 	(Ap-
prenti Architecte, Prussien .) 	A degree in the
collection of Le Page .
Apprentice Cohen . 	(Apprenti Coen .) A
degree in the collection of the Archives of the
Mother Lodge of the Philosophic Rite .
Apprentice, Egyptian . 	(Apprenti, Egyp-
tien .) The First Degree of the Egyptian Rite
of Cagliostro .
Apprentice, Entered . The First Degree
of Freemasonry, in all the rites, is that of
Entered Apprentice . In French, it is called
apprenti ; in Spanish, aprendiz ; in Italian,
apprendente ; and in German, lehrling : in all
of which the radical meaning of the word is
a learner . 	Like the lesser Mysteries of the
ancient initiations, it is in Masonry. a pre-

APPRENTICE
liminary degree, intended to prepare the
candidate for the higher and fuller instructions
of the succeeding degrees . It is, therefore,
although supplying no valuable historical
information, replete, in its lecture, with in-
structions on the internal structure of the
Order . Until late in the seventeenth century,
Apprentices do not seem to have been con-
sidered as forming any part of the confra-
ternity of Free and Accepted Masons ; for
although they are incidentally mentioned in
the Old Constitutions of the fifteenth, six-
teenth, and seventeenth centuries, these
records refer only to Masters and Fellows as
constituting the Craft, and this distinction
seems to have been one rather of position than
of degree . The Sloane Manuscript, No .
3,329, which Findel supposes to have been
written at the end of the seventeenth century,
describes a just and perfect Lodge as consisting
of "two Interprintices, two Fellow Craftes, and
two Masters," which shows that by that time
the Apprentices had been elevated to a recog-
nized rank in the Fraternity . In the Manu-
script signedJ" Mark Kipling," which Hughan
entitles "The York MS ., No . 4," the date of
which is 1693, there is a still further recogni-
tion in what is there called " the Apprentice
Charge," one item of which is, that " he shall
keepe councell in all things spoken in Lodge or
chamber by any Masons, Fellows, or Free-
masons ." This indicates that they were ad-
mitted to a closer communion with the mem-
bers of the Craft . But notwithstanding these
recognitions, all the manuscripts up to 1704
show that only "Masters and Fellows" were
summoned to the assembly . During all this
time, when Masonry was in fact an operative
art, there was but one degree in the modern
sense of the word . Early in the eighteenth
century, if not earlier, Apprentices must have
been admitted to the possession of this degree ;
for after what is called the revival of 1717,
Entered Apprentices constituted the bulk of
the Craft, and they only were initiated in the
Lodges, the degrees of Fellow-Craft and
Master Mason being conferred by the Grand
Lodge . This is not left to conjecture . The
thirteenth of the General Regulations, ap-
proved in 1721, says that " Apprentices must
be admitted Masters and Fellow Crafts only
in the Grand Lodge, unless by a dispensation ."
But this having been found very inconvenient,
on the 22d of November, 1725, the Grand
Lodge repealed the article, and decreed that
the Master of a Lodge, with his Wardens
and a competent number of the Lodge assem-
bled in due form, can make Masters and
Fellows at discretion .
The mass of the Fraternity being at that
time composed of Apprentices, they exercised
a great deal of influence in the legislation of the
Order ; for although they could not represent
their Lodge in the Quarterly Communications
of the Grand Lodge-a duty which could only
be discharged by a Master or Fellow-yet
they were always permitted to be present at
the grand feast, and no General Regulation
could be altered or repealed without their
APPRENTICE 	71
consent ; and, of course, in all the business of
their particular Lodges, they took the most
prominent part, for there were but few Mas-
ters or Fellows in a Lodge, in consequence of
the difficulty and inconvenience of obtain-
ing the degree, which could only be done at
a Quarterly Communication of the Grand
Lodge .
But as soon as the subordinate Lodges were
invested with the power of conferring all the
degrees, the Masters began rapidly to increase
in numbers and in corresponding influence .
And now, the bulk of the Fraternity consisting
of Master Masons, the legislation of the Order
is done exclusively by them, and the Entered
Apprentices and Fellow-Crafts have sunk into
comparative obscurity, their degrees being
considered only as preparatory to the greater
initiation of the Master's Degree .
Apprentice, Hermetic . 	(Apprenti Her-
metique .) The Thirteenth Degree, ninth series,
of the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter
of France .
Apprentice, Kabbalistle . 	(Apprenti Ca-
balistique .) 	A degree in the collection of the
Archives of the Mother Lodge of the Philo-
sophic Rite .
Apprentice Mason . 	(Apprenti Magon .)
The Entered Apprentice of French Masonry .
Apprentice Masoness . 	(Apprentie Ma-
gonne .) The First Degree of the French Rite of
Adoption . The word Masoness is a neolo-
gism, but it is in accordance with the genius of
our language, and it is difficult to know how
else to translate into English the French word
Magonne, which means a woman who has
received the degrees of the Rite of Adoption,
unless by the use of the awkward phrase,
Female Mason . To express this idea, we
might introduce as a technicality the word
Masoness .
Apprentice Masoness, Egyptian . 	(Ap-
prentie Magonne Egyptienne .) 	The First De-
gree of Cagliostro's Egyptian Rite of Adoption .
Apprentice, 	Mystic . 	(Apprenti Mys-
tique .) A degree in the collection of M . Pyron .
Apprentice of Paracelsus . 	(Apprenti
de Paracelse .) 	A degree in the collection of
M . Peuvret . There existed a series of these
Paracelsian 	degrees-Apprentice, Fellow-
Craft, and Master . They were all most
probably forms of Hermetic Masonry .
Apprentice of the Egyptian Secrets .
(Apprenti des secrets Egyptiens .) 	The First
Degree of the Order of African Architects .
Apprentice Philosopher, by the Num-
ber 3 . 	(Apprenti Philosophe par le Nombre
3 .) A degree in the collection of M . Peuvret .
Apprentice 	Philosopher, 	Hermetic .
(Apprenti Philosophe Hermetique .) 	A degree
in the collection of M . Peuvret .
Apprentice Philosopher to the Number
9 . 	(Apprenti Philosophe au Nombre 9 .) 	A
degree in the collection of M . Peuvret .
Apprentice Pillar . 	See Prentice Pillar .
Apprentice, Scottish . 	(Apprenti LS cos-
sais .) 	This degree and that of Trinitarian
Scottish Apprentice (Apprenti Ecossais Trini-
taire) are contained in the collection of Pyron .

72 	APPRENTICE
Apprentice 	Theosophist . 	(Apprenti
Theosophe .) 	The First Degree of the Rite of
Swedenborg .
Apron . 	There is no one of the symbols of
Speculative Masonry more important in its
teachings, or more interesting in its history,
than the lambskin, or white leather apron .
Commencing its lessons at an early period in
the Mason's progress, it is impressed upon his
memory as the first gift which he receives, the
first symbol which is explained to him, and the
first tangible evidence which he possesses of
his admission into the Fraternity . Whatever
may be his future advancement in the " royal
art," into whatsoever deeper arcana his devo-
tion to the mystic Institution or his thirst for
knowledge may subsequently lead him, with
the lambskin apron-his first investiture-he
never parts . Changing, perhaps, its form and
its decorations, and conveying, at each step,
some new but still beautiful allusion, its sub-
stance is still there, and it continues to claim
the honored title by which it was first made
known to him, on the night of his initiation,
as " the badge of a Mason ."
If in less important portions of our ritual
there are abundant allusions to the manners
and customs of the ancient world, it is not to be
supposed that the Masonic Rite of investiture
-the ceremony of clothing the newly initiated
candidate with this distinctive badge of his
profession-is without its archetype in the
times and practises long passed away . It
would, indeed, be strange, while all else in
Masonry is covered with the veil of antiquity,
that the apron alone, its most significant sym-
bol, should be indebted for its existence to the
invention of a modern mind .
On the contrary, we shall find the most
satisfactory evidence that the use of the
apron, or some equivalent mode of investi-
ture, as a mystic symbol, was common to
all the nations of the earth from the earliest
periods .
Among the Israelites the girdle formed a
part of the investiture of the priesthood . In
the mysteries of Mithras, in Persia, the candi-
date was invested with a white apron . In the
initiations practised in Hindostan, the cere-
mony of investiture was preserved, but a sash,
called the sacred zennar, was substituted for
the apron . The Jewish sect of the Essenes
clothed their novices with a white robe . The
celebrated traveler Knmpfer informs us that
the Japanese, who practise certain rites of
initiation, invest their candidates with a white
apron, bound round the loins with a zone or
girdle . 	In the Scandinavian Rites, the mili-
tary genius of the people caused them to sub-
stitute a white shield, but its presentation was
accompanied by an emblematic instruction
not unlike that which is connected with the
Mason's apron .
" The apron," says Dr . Oliver (S . and S .,
Lect . X ., p . 196), " appears to have been, in
ancient times, an honorary badge of distinc-
tion . 	In the Jewish economy, none but the
superior orders of the priesthood were per-
mitted to adorn themselves with ornamented
APRON
Girdles, which were made of blue, purple, and
crimson, decorated with gold, upon a ground
of fine white linen ; while the inferior priests
wore only plain white . The Indian, the Per-
sian, the Jewish, the Ethiopian, and the Egyp-
tian aprons, though equally superb, all bore a
character distinct from each other . Some were
plain white, others striped with blue, purple,
and crimson ; some were of wrought gold,
others adorned and decorated with superb
tassels and fringes . In a word, though the
principal honour of the Apron may consist in
its reference to innocence of conduct and pur-
ity of heart, yet it certainly appears, through
all ages, to have been a most exalted badge of
distinction . In primitive times it was rather
an ecclesiastical than a civil decoration, al-
though in some cases the Apron was elevated
to great superiority as a national trophy . The
Royal Standard of Persia was originally an
apron in form and dimensions . At this day
it is connected with ecclesiastical honours ; for
the chief dignitaries of the Christian church,
wherever a legitimate establishment, with the
necessary degrees of rank and subordination is
formed, are invested with Aprons as a peculiar
badge of distinction ; which is a collateral proof
of the fact that Masonry was originally in-
corporated with the various systems of divine
worship used by every people in the ancient
world . Masonry retains the symbol or shadow ;
it cannot have renounced the reality or sub-
stance ."
In the Masonic apron two things are essen-
tial to the due preservation of its symbolic
character-its color and its material .
1 . As to its color . 	The color of a Mason's
apron should be pure unspotted white . This
color has, in all ages and countries, been es-
teemed an emblem of innocence and purity .
It was with this reference that a portion of
the vestments of the Jewish priesthood was
directed to be white . In the Ancient I\Iys-
teries the candidate was always clothed in
white . 	" The priests of the Romans," says
Festus, " were accustomed to wear white gar-
ments when they sacrificed ." In the Scandi-
navian Rites it has been seen that the shield
presented to the candidate was white . The
Druids changed the color of the garment pre-
sented to their initiates with each degree ;
white, however, was the color appropriated
to the last, or degree of perfection . And it
was, according to their ritual, intended to
teach the aspirant that none were admitted
to that honor but such as were cleansed from
all impurities both of body and mind . In
the early ages of the Christian church a white
garment was always placed upon the catechu-
men who had been newly baptized, to denote
that he had been cleansed from his former sins,
and was thenceforth to lead a life of purity .
Hence it was presented to him with this sol-
emn charge : " Receive the white and unde-
filed garment, and produce it unspotted be-
fore the tribunal of our Lord Jesus Christ,
that you may obtain eternal life ." From all
these instances we learn that white apparel
was anciently used as an emblem of purity,

APRON
and for this reason the color has been pre-
served in the apron of the Freemason .
2 . As to its material . 	A Mason's apron
must be made of lambskin . No other sub-
stance, such as linen, silk, or satin, could be
substituted without entirely destroying the
emblematic character of the apron, for the
material of the Mason's apron constitutes one
of the most important symbols of his profes-
sion . The lamb has always been considered
as an appropriate emblem of innocence . And
hence we are taught, in the ritual of the First
Degree, that, " by the lambskin, the Mason is
reminded of that purity of life and rectitude of
conduct which is so essentially necessary to
his gaining admission into the Celestial Lodge
above, where the Supreme Architect of the
Universe forever presides ."
The true apron of a Mason must, then, be of
unspotted lambskin, from 14 to 16 nches
wide, from 12 to 14 deep, with a fall about 3 or
4 inches deep, square at the bottom, and with-
out device or ornament of any kind . The
usage of the Craft in the United States of Amer-
ica has, for a few years past, allowed a narrow
edging of blue ribbon in the symbolic degrees,
to denote the universal friendship which consti-
tutes the bond of the society, and of which
virtue blue is the Masonic emblem . But this
undoubtedly is an innovation, for the ancient
apron was without any edging or ornament .
In the Royal Arch Degree the lambskin is, of
course, continued to be used, but, according
to the same modern custom, there is an edging
of red, to denote the zeal and fervency which
should distinguish the possessors of that de-
gree . All extraneous ornaments and devices
are in bad taste, and detract from the symbolic
character of the investiture . But the silk or
satin a rons, bespangled and painted and
embroidered, which have been gradually creep-
ing into our Lodges, have no sort of connection
with Ancient Craft Masonry . They are an
innovation of our French brethren, who are
never pleased with simplicity, and have, by
their love of tinsel in their various newly
invented ceremonies, effaced many of the most
beautiful and impressive symbols of our In-
stitution . A Mason who understands and
appreciates the true symbolic meaning of his
apron, would no more tolerate a painted or
embroidered satin one than an artist would a
gilded statue . By him, the lambskin, and the
lambskin alone, would be considered as the
badge " more ancient than the Golden Fleece,
or Roman Eagle, and more honorable than the
Star and Garter ."
The Grand Lodge of England is precise in
its regulations for the decorations of the apron
which are thus laid down in its Constitution :
"Entered Apprentices .-A plain white lamb-
skin, from fourteen to sixteen inches wide,
twelve to fourteen inches deep, square at bot-
tom, and without ornament ; white strings .
"Fellow Craft .-A plain white lambskin,
similar to that of the Entered Apprentices,
with the addition only of two sky-blue rosettes
at the bottom .
" Master Masons .-The same, with sky-
APRON 	73
'blue lining and edging, not more than two
inches deep, and an additional rosette on the
fall or flap, and silver tassels . No other col-
our or ornament shall be allowed except to
officers and past officers of Lodges who may
have the emblems of their offices in silver or
white in the centre of the apron ; and except
as to the members of the Prince of Wales'
Lodge, No . 259, who are allowed to wear the
internal half of the edging of garter-blue
three-fourths of an inch wide .
"Grand Stewards, present and past .-Aprons
of the same dimensions lined with crimson,
edging of the same colour three and a half
inches, and silver tassels . Provincial and
District Grand Stewards, present and past,
the same, except that the edging is only two
inches wide . The collars of the Grand Stew-
ard's Lodge to be crimson ribbon, four inches
broad .
"Grand Officers of the United Grand Lodge,
present and past .-Aprons of the same dimen-
sions, lined with garter-blue, edging three and
a half inches, ornamented with gold, and blue
strings ; and they may have the emblems of
their offices, in gold or blue, in the centre .
" Provincial Grand Officers, present and past .
-Aprons of the same dimensions, lined with
garter-blue, and ornamented with gold and
with blue strings : they must have the em-
blems of their offices in gold or blue in the cen-
tre within a double circle, in the margin of
which must be inserted the name of the Prov-
ince . The garter-blue edging to the aprons
must not exceed two inches in width .
" The apron of the Deputy Grand Master
to have the emblem of his office in gold em-
broidery in the centre, and the pomegranate
and lotus alternately embroidered in gold on
the edging .
"The apron of the Grand Master is orna-
mented with the blazing sun embroidered in
gold in the centre ; on the edging the pome-
granate and lotus with the seven-eared wheat
at each corner, and also on the fall ; all in gold
embroidery ; the fringe of gold bullion .
"The apron of the pro Grand Master the
same .
" The Masters and Past Masters of Lodges
to wear, in the place of the three rosettes on
the Master Mason's apron, perpendicular
lines upon horizontal lines, thereby forming
three several sets of two right angles ; the
length of the horizontal lines to be two inches
and a half each, and of the perpendicular
lines one inch ; these emblems to be of silver
or of ribbon, half an inch broad, and of the
same colour as the lining and edging of the
apron . 	If Grand Officers, similar emblems of
garter-blue or gold ."
In the United States, although there is evi-
dence in some old aprons, still existing, that
rosettes were formerly worn, there are now no
distinctive decorations for the aprons of the
different symbolic degrees . The only mark of
distinction is in the mode of wearing ; and this
differs in the different jurisdictions, some
wearing the Master's apron turned up at the
corner, and others the Fellow-Craft's . The

74 	APRON
authority of Cross, in his plate of the Royal
Master's Degree in the older editions of his
Hieroglyphic Chart, conclusively shows that
he taught the former method, although the
latter is now the more common usage .
As we advance to the higher degrees, we
find the apron varying in its decorations and
in the color of its border, which are, however,
always symbolical of some idea taught in the
degree .
Apron, Washington's . 	We here intro-
duce a faithful representation of the emblems,
wrought in needlework upon white satin by
Madame Lafayette, for a Masonic apron,
which the Marquis conveyed from Paris to
General Washington at Mount Vernon . It
was a cherished memorial, which after Wash-
ington's death was formally presented to the
" Washington Benevolent Society," at Phila-
delphia .
Arabici . 	An Arabian sect of the second
century, who believed that the soul died with
the body, to be again revived with it at the
general resurrection .
Aranyaka . An appendage to the Veda
of the Indians supplementary to the Brah-
manas, but giving more prominence to the
Mystical sense of the rites of worship .
Araunah . 	See Ornan .
Arbitration . 	In the Old Charges, Masons
are advised, in all cases of dispute or contro-
versy, to submit to the arbitration of the Mas-
ters and Fellows, rather than to go to law .
Arbroath, Abbey of (England) . Erected
during the twelfth century . Rev . Charles Cor-
-linet, in his description of the ruins of North
Britain, has given an account of a seal of the
Abbey Arbroath marked " Initiation ." The
seal was ancient before the abbey had an exist-
ence, and contains a perfectly distinct char-
acteristic of the Scottish Rite .
Arcade de la Pelleterie . 	The name of
derision given to the Orient of Clermont in
France, that is to say, to the Old Grand
Lodge, before the union in 1799 .
Arcani Disciplina . 	The mode of initia-
ARCHETYPE
tion into the primitive Christian church . (See
Discipline of the Secret .)
Arch, Antiquity of the . 	Writers on ar-
chitecture have, until within a few years, been
accustomed to suppose that the invention of
the arch and keystone was not anterior to the
era of Augustus . But the researches of mod-
ern antiquaries have traced the existence of
the arch as far back as 460 years before the
building of King Solomon's Temple, and thus
rescued Masonic traditions from the charge
of anachronism . (See Keystone .)
Arch, Catenarlan . 	See Catenarian Arch .
Arch of Enoch . 	The Thirteenth Degree
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite is
sometimes so called . (See Knight of the
Ninth Arch .)
Arch of Heaven . 	Job (xxvi . 11) compares
heaven to an arch' supported by pillars . " The
pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished
at his reproof ." Dr . Cutbush, on this passage,
remarks, " The arch in this instance is alle-
gorical, not only of the arch of heaven, but of
the higher degree of Masonry, commonly
called the Holy Royal Arch . The pillars
which support the arch are emblematical of
Wisdom and Strength ; the former denoting
the wisdom of the Supreme Architect, and the
latter the stability of the Universe ."-Am .
Ed . Brewster's Encyc .
Arch of Solomon, Royal . 	The Thir-
teenth Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite is sometimes so called, by which it is
distinguished from the Royal Arch Degree of
the English and American systems .
Arch of Steel . 	The grand honors are con-
ferred, in the French Rite, by two ranks of
brethren elevating and crossing their drawn
swords . They call it voute d'acier .
Arch of Zerubbabel, Royal . The Seventh
Degree of the American Rite is sometimes so
called to distinguish it from the Royal Arch
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite,
which is called the Royal Arch of Solomon .
Arch, Royal . 	See Royal Arch Degree .
Archeology . The science which is engaged
in the study of those minor branches of an-
tiquities which do not enter into the course of
general history, such as national architecture,
genealogies, manners, customs, heraldic sub-
jects, and others of a similar nature . The
archeology of Freemasonry has been made,
within a recent period, a very interesting
study, and is much indebted for its successful
pursuit to the labors of Kloss and Findel in
Germany, and to Thory and Ragon in France,
and to Oliver, Lyon, Hughan, Gould, Sadler,
Dr . Chetwode Crawley and others, in Eng-
land . The scholars of this science have espe-
cially directed their attention to the collection
of old records, and the inquiry into the condi-
tion and organization of Masonic and other
secret associations during the Middle Ages .
In America, the late William S . Rockwell was
a diligent student of Masonic archeology, and
several others in this country have labored
assiduously in the same inviting field .
Archetype . 	The principal type, figure,
pattern, or example whereby and whereon


ARCHIMAGUS
a thing is formed . In the science of symbol-
ism, the archetype is the thing adopted as a
symbol, whence the symbolic idea is derived .
Thus, we say the Temple is the archetype of
the Lodge, because the former is the symbol
whence all the Temple symbolism of the latter
is derived .
Archimagus . 	The chief officer of the
Mithraic Mysteries in Persia . He was the
representative of Ormudz, or Ormazd, the
type of the good, the true, and the beautiful,
who overcame Ahriman, the spirit of evil, of
the base, and of darkness .
Architect . 	In laying the corner-stones of
Masonic edifices, and in dedicating them after
they are finished, the architect of the building,
although he maybe a profane, is required to
take a part in the ceremonies . In the former
case, the square, level, and plumb are deliv-
ered to him with a charge by the Grand Mas-
ter ; and in the latter case they are returned
by him to that officer .
Architect, African . 	See African Archi-
tects .
Architect, Engineer and . 	An officer in
the French Rite, whose duty it is to take
charge of the furniture of the Lodge . In the
Scottish Rite such officer in the Consistory has
charge of the general arrangement of all pre-
paratory matters for the working or ceremo-
nial of the degrees .
Architect by 3, b, and 7, Grand . (Grande
Architects par 3, 5, et 7 .) A degree in the man-
uscript of Peuvret's collection .
Architect, Grand . 	(Architecte, Grande .)
1 . The Sixth Degree of the Rite of Martinism .
2 . The Fourth Degree of the Rite of Elect Co-
hens . 3 . The Twenty-third Degree of the Rite
of Mizraim . 4 . The Twenty-fourth Degree
of the third series in the collection of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Architect, Grand Master . 	See Grand
Master Architect .
Architect, Little . 	(Archilecte, Petit .) 1 .
The Twenty-third Degree of the third series of
the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France . 2 . The Twenty-second Degree of the
Rite of Mizraim .
Architect of Solomon . 	(Architects de
Salomon .) A degree in the manuscript collec-
tion of M . Peuvret .
Architect, Perfect . 	(Architects, Parfait .)
The Twenty-fifth, Twenty-sixth, and Twenty-
seventh Degrees of the Rite of Mizraim are
Apprentice, Fellow-Craft, and Master Per-
fect Architect .
Architect, Perfect and Sublime, Grand .
(Architecte, Parfait et Sublime Grande .) A de-
gree in the collection of the Loge de Saint-
Louis des Amis Reunis at Calais .
Architectonicus . 	A Greek word, adopted
in Latin, signifying "belonging to architec-
ture ." Thus, Vitruvius writes, "ra`iones
architectonicx," the rules' of architecture .
But as Architecton signifies a Master Builder,
the Grand Lodge of Scotland, in some Latin
inscriptions, has used the word architecton-
icus, to denote Masonic or relating to Free-
masonry . In the inscription on the corner-
ARCHIVES 	75
stone of the Royal Exchange of Edinburgh,
we find "fratres architectonici " used for
Freemasons ; and in the Grand Lodge diploma,
a Lodge is called "societas architectonica " ;
but the usage of the word in this sense has not
been generally adopted .
Architecture . 	The art of constructing
dwellings, as a shelter from the heat of sum-
mer and the cold of winter, must have been
resorted to from the very first moment in
which man became subjected to the power of
the elements . Architecture is, therefore, not
only one of the most important, but one of
the most ancient of sciences . Rude and im-
perfect must however, have been the first
efforts of the iuman race, resulting in the erec-
tion of huts clumsy in their appearance, and
ages must have elapsed ere wisdom of design
combined strength of material with beauty of
execution .
As Geometry is the science on which Ma-
sonry is founded, Architecture is the art from
which it borrows the language of its symbolic
instruction . In the earlier ages of the Order
every Mason was either an operative me-
chanic or a superintending architect . And
something more than a superficial knowledge
of the principles of architecture is absolutely
essential to the Mason who would either un-
derstand the former history of the Institution
or appreciate its present objects .
There are five orders of architecture : the
Doric, the Ionic, the Corinthian, the Tuscan,
and the Composite . The first three are the
original orders, and were invented in Greece ;
the last two are of later formation, and owe
their existence to Italy . Each of these orders,
as well as the other terms of architecture, so
far as they are connected with Freemasonry
will be found under its appropriate head
throughout this work .
The Books of Constitutions, commenced
by Anderson and continued by Entick and
Noorthouck, contain, under the title of a His-
tory of Freemasonry, in reality a history of the
progress of architecture from the earliest ages .
In the older manuscript Constitutions the
science of geometry, as well as architecture, is
made identical with Masonry ; so that he who
would rightly understand the true history of
Freemasonry must ever bear in mind the dis-
tinction between Geometry, Architecture, and
Masonry, which is constantly lost sight of in
these old records .
Architecture, Piece of . (Morgeau d'archi-
tecture .) The name given in French Lodges
to the minutes .
Archives . 	This word means, properly, a
place of deposit for records ; but it means also
the records themselves . Hence the archives of
a Lodge are its records and other documents .
The legend in the Second Degree, that the pil-
lars of the Temple were made hollow to con-
tain the archives of Masonry, is simply a
myth, and a very modern one .
Archives, Grand Guardian of the . 	An
officer in the Grand Council of Rites of Ire-
land who performs the duties of Secretary
General .
.

76 	ARCHIVES
Archives, Grand Keeper of the . 	An
officer in some of the bodies of the high degrees
whose duties are indicated by the name . In
the Grand Orient of France he is called Grand
Garde des timbres et Sceaux, as he combines the
duties of a keeper of the archives and a keeper
of the seals .
Archiviste . 	An officer in French Lodges
who has charge of the archives . The Ger-
mans call him Archivar .
Ardarel . 	A word in the high degrees, used
as the name of the angel of fire . It is a dis-
torted form of Adariel, the splendor of God .
Arelim . 	A word used in some of the rit-
uals of the high degrees . It is found in Isaiah
(xxxiii . 7), where it is translated, in the A . V .,
" valiant ones," and by Lowth, "mighty
men ." It is a doubtful word and is probably
formed from ariel, the lion of God . D'Herbe-
lot says that Mohammed called his uncle
Hamseh, on account of his valor, the lion of
God . In the Kabbala, Arelim is the angelic
name of the third sephirah .
Areopagus . 	The third apartment in a
Council of Kadosh is so called . It represents
a tribunal, and the name is derived from the
celebrated court of Athens .
Argonauts, Order of . 	A German an-
drogynous Masonic society founded in 1775,
by brethren of the Rite of Strict Observance .
Much of the myth of the Argonauts was in-
troduced into the forms and ceremonies, and
many of the symbols taken from this source,
such as meeting upon the deck of a vessel, the
chief officer being called Grand Admiral and
the nomenclature of parts of the vessel being
used . The motto was Es Lebe die Freude, or
Joy forever .
Ariel . 	In the demonology of the Kabbala,
the spirit of air ; the guardian angel of inno-
cence and purity : hence the Masonic syno-
nym . A name applied to Jerusalem ; a
water spirit .
Arithmetic . 	That science which is en-
gaged in considering the properties and powers
of numbers, and which, from its manifest
necessity in all the operations of weighing,
numbering, and measuring, must have had its
origin in the remotest ages of the world .
In the lecture of the degree of Grand Master
Architect, the application of this science to
Freemasonry is made to consist in its remind-
ing the Mason that he is continually to add to
his knowledge, never to subtract anything from
the character of his neighbor, to multiply his
benevolence to his fellow-creatures, and to
divide his means with a suffering brother .
Arizona, Grand Lodge of, was estab-
lished in 1882, and in 1910 had 19 Lodges and
1,410 brethren under its jurisdiction .
Ark . 	In the ritual of the American Royal
Arch Degree three arks are referred to : 1 . The
Ark of Safety, or of Noah ; 2 . The Ark of the
Covenant, or of Moses ; 3 . The Substitute
Ark, or the Ark of Zerubbabel . In what is
technically called " the passing of the veils,"
each of these arks has its commemorative il-
lustration, and in the order in which they have
been named . The first was constructed by
ARK
Shem, Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah ;
the second by Moses, Aholiab, and Bezaleel ;
and the third was discovered by Joshua, Hag-
gai, and Zerubbabel .
Ark and Anchor . 	See Anchor and Ark .
Ark and Dove . 	An illustrative degree,
preparatory to the Royal Arch, and usually
conferred, when conferred at all, immediately
before the solemn ceremony of exaltation .
The name of Noachite, sometimes given to it,
is incorrect, as this belongs to a degree in the
Ancient Scottish Rite . It is very probable
that the degree, which now, however, has lost
much of its significance, was derived from a
much older one called the Royal Ark Mariners
to which the reader is referred . The legend
and symbolism of the ark and dove formed an
important part of the spurious Freemasonry
of the ancients .
Ark Mariners . 	See Royal Ark Mariners .
Ark, Noah's, or the Ark of Safety, con-
structed by Shem, Ham, and Japheth, under
the superintendence of Noah, and in it, as a
chosen tabernacle of refuge, the patriarch's
family took refuge . It has been called by
many commentators a tabernacle of Jehovah ;
and Dr . Jarvis, speaking of the word 1,12,
ZoHaR, which has been translated window,
says that, in all other passages of Scripture
where this word occurs, it signifies the merid-
ian light, the brightest effulgence of day, and
therefore it could not have been an aperture,
but a source of light itself . He supposes it
therefore to have been the Divine Shekinah, or
Glory of Jehovah, which afterward dwelt be-
tween the cherubim over the Ark of the
Covenant in the tabernacle and the Temple .
(Church of the Redeemed, i ., 20 .)
Ark of the Covenant . 	The Ark of the
Covenant or of the Testimony was a chest
originally constructed by Moses at God's
command (Exod . xxv . 10), in which were kept
the two tables of stone, on which were en-
graved the Ten Commandments . It con-
tained, likewise, a golden pot filled with
manna, Aaron's rod, and the tables of the
covenant . It was at first deposited in the
most sacred place of the tabernacle and after-
ward placed by Solomon in the Sanctum
Sanctorum of the Temple, and was lost upon
the destruction of that building by the Chal-
deans . 	The later history of this ark is buried
in obscurity . It is supposed that, upon the
destruction of the first Temple by the Chal-
deans, it was carried to Babylon among the
other sacred utensils which became the spoil
of the conquerors . But of its subsequent
fate all traces have been lost . It is, however,
certain that it was not brought back to Jeru-
salem by Zerubbabel . The Talmudists say
that there were five things which were the
glory of the first Temple that were wanting in
the second ; namely, the Ark of the Cove-
nant, the Shekinah or Divine Presence, the
Urim and Thummim, the holy fire upon the
altar, and the spirit of prophecy . The Rev .
Salem Towne, it is true, has endeavored to
prove, by a very inge~nious argument, that the
original Ark of the Covenant was concealed by

ARK
Josiah, or by others, at some time previous to
the destruction of Jerusalem, and that it was
afterward, at the building of the second Tem-
ple, discovered and brought to light . But
such a theory is entirely at variance with all
the legends of the degree of Select Master and
of Royal Arch Masonry . To admit it would
lead to endless confusion and contradictions in
the traditions of the Order . It is, besides, in
conflict with the opinions of the Rabbinical
writers and every Hebrew scholar . Josephus
and the Rabbis allege that in the second
Temple the Holy of Holies was empty, or con-
tained only the Stone of Foundation which
marked the place which the ark should have
occupied .
The ark was made of shittim wood, over-
laid, within and without, with pure gold . It
was about three feet nine inches long, two feet
three inches wide, and of the same extent in
depth . 	It had on the side two rings of gold,
through which were placed staves of shittim
wood, by which, when necessary, it was borne
by the Levites . 	Its covering was of pure
gold, over which was placed two figures called
cherubim, with expanded wings . The cov-
ering of the ark was called kaphiret, from
kaphar, " to forgive sin," and hence its English
name of " mercy-seat," as being the place
where the intercession for sin was made .
The researches of archeologists in the last
few years have thrown much light on the
Egyptian mysteries . Among the ceremonies
of that ancient people was one called the Pro-
cession of Shrines, which is mentioned in the
Rosetta stone, and depicted on the Temple
walls . 	One of these shrines was an ark, which
was carried in procession by the priests, who
supported it on their shoulders by staves pass-
ing through metal rings . It was thus brought
into the Temple and deposited on a stand or
altar that the ceremonies prescribed in the
ritua1 might be performed before it . The
contents of these arks were various, but always
of a mystical character . Sometimes the ark
would contain symbols of Life and Stability ;
sometimes the sacred beetle, the symbol of
the Sun ; and there was always a representa-
tion of two figures of the goddess Theme or
Truth and Justice, which overshadowed the
ark with their wings . These coincidences of
the Egyptian and Hebrew arks must have
been more than accidental .
Ark, Substitute . 	The chest or coffer
which constitutes a part of the furniture, and
is used in the ceremonies of a Chapter of
Royal Arch Masons, and in a Council of Se-
lect Masters according to the American sys-
tem, is called by Masons the Substitute Ark,
to distinguish it from the other ark, that which
was constructed in the wilderness under the
direction of Moses, and which is known as the
Ark of the Covenant . This the Substitute Ark
was made to represent under circumstances
that axe recorded in the Masonic traditions,
and especially in those of the Select Degree .
The ark used in Royal Arch and Cr tic
Masonry in this country is generally of tthis
form :
ARK
WNINAmnnnA/'/.y 1 1 	, 1 1,
ll El EU
owmuuuumuuuwcwnuuweunumm~mut~munmmur
Prideaux, on the authority of Lightfoot,
contends that, as an ark was indispensable to
the Israelitish worship, there was in the second
Temple an ark which had been expressly made
for the purpose of supplying the place of the
first or original ark, and which, without pos-
sessing any . of its prerogatives or honors, was
of precisely the same shape and dimensions,
and was deposited in the same place . The
Masonic legend, whether authentic or not, is
simple and connected . It teaches that there
was an ark in the second Temple, but that it
was neither the Ark of the Covenant which
had been in the Holy of Holies of the first
Temple, nor one that had been constructed as
a substitute for it after the building of the
second Temple . It was that ark which was
presented to us in the Select Master's Degree,
and which being an exact copy of the Mosa-
ical ark, and intended to replace it in case of its
loss, which is best known to Freemasons as the
Substitute Ark .
Lightfoot gives these Talmudic legends, in
his Prospect of the Temple in the following
language : " It is fancied ly the Jews, that
Solomon, when he built the Temple, fore-
seeing that the Temple should be destroyed,
caused very obscure and intricate vaults
under ground to be made, wherein to hide the
ark when any such danger came ; that howso-
ever it went with the Temple, yet the ark,
which was the very life of the Temple, might be
saved . And they understand that passage in
2 Chron . xxxv . 3 'Josiah said unto the Levites,
Put the holy ark into the house which Solo-
mon, the son of David, did build,' etc ., as if
Josiah, having heard by the reading of Moses'
manuscript, and by Huldah's prophecy of the
danger that hung over Jerusalem, commanded
to convey the ark into this vault, that it might
be secured ; and with it, say they, they laid
up Aaron's rod the pot of manna, and the
anointing oil. 'For while the ark stood in its
place upon the stone mentioned-they hold
that Aaron's rod and the pot of manna stood
before it ; but, now, were all conveyed into ob-
scurity-and the stone upon which the ark
stood lay over the mouth of the vault . But
Rabbi Solomon, which useth not, ordinarily,
to forsake such traditions, hath given a more
serious gloss upon the place ; namely, that
whereas Manasseh and Amon had removed
the ark out of its habitation, and set up im-
ages and abominations there of their own-
Joshua speaketh to the priests to restore it to
its place again . What became of the ark, at
the burning of the temple by Nebuchadnezzar,
we read not ; it is most likely it went to the
fire also . However it sped, it was not in the
second Temple ; and is one of the five choice
77

78 	ARKANSAS
things that the Jews reckon wanting there .
Yet they had an ark there also of their own
making, as they had a breastplate of judg-
ment ; which, 	ough they both wanted the
glory of the former, which was giving of
oracles, yet did they stand current as to the
other matters of their worship as the former
breastplate and ark had done . ;'
The idea of the concealment of an ark and
its accompanying treasures always prevailed
in the Jewish church . The account even by
the Talmudists is undoubtedly mythical • but
there must, as certainly have been some foun-
dation for the myth, for every myth has a
substratum of truth . The Masonic tradition
differs from the Rabbinical, but is in every way
more reconcilable with truth, or at least with
probability . The ark constructed by Moses,
Abolish, and Bezaleel was burned at the de-
struction of the first Temple ; but there was
an exact representation of it in the second .
Arkansas . The modern school of histori-
ans, Masonic and profane, write history from
original sources when possible, but in this
case that method is no longer possible, as all
the records of the Grand Lodge of this State
were burned in 1864 and again in 1876 when
all records gathered since 1864 were destroyed
-depriving us of all early records .
From what had been previously written sev-
eral accounts have appeared, and from these
this article is compiled .
Passing over the tradition that the Span-
iards had introduced Freemasonry into Ar-
kansas about the time of the Revolution we
find the first Lodge was established at Post
Arkansas, under authority of a dispensation
granted by the Grand Master of Kentucky
November 29, 1819, and a charter was granted
August 29, 1820, but was surrendered August
28, 1822 . For several years Masonic matters
were dormant .
The Grand Master of Tennessee granted a
dispensation for Washington Lodge in Fay-
etteville, December 24, 1835, and for some
reason it was renewed November 12, 1836, and
received a charter October 3, 1837 . The
Grand Lodge of Tennessee granted a dispensa-
tion to Clarksville Lodge at Clarksville, Oc-
tober 5 1838, and a charter October 12, 1839 .
These hates are taken from Drummond and
you will observe he says the Grand Master
issued the dispensation to Washington Lodge,
but that the Grand Lodge issued the dispen-
sation to Clarksville Lodge . As we have
noticed a similar statement from a Past Grand
Secretary of Arkansas, they do not conform
to the usual plan of the Grand Master issuing
the dispensation and the Grand Lodge issuing
the charter . However, this custom was quite
general .
The next attempt to form a Lodge at Post
Arkansas was under the Grand Lodge of Lou-
isiana, which granted a charter January 6
1837, and a charter seems to have been gran
to a Lodge at Little Rock on the same date,
and when the capital was moved to Little
Rock, Morning Star Lodge at Post Arkansas
surrendered its charter .
ARMENBUCIISE
The Grand Master of Alabama granted a
dispensation to Mt . Horeb Lodge at Washing-
ton in 1838 .
Washington 	, No . R2, under a charter
from the Grand L ge of Tennessee ; Western
Star Lodge, No . 43, at Little Rock, under a
charter of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana ;
Morning Star Lodge, No . 42, at Post Arkansas,
under a charter from the Grand Lodge of Lou-
isiana ; Mt . Horeb Lodge, U~ . D ., under dispen-
sation from the Grand Lodge of Alabama, met
at Little Rock, November 21,1838 and formed
the Grand Lodge of Arkansas . Ae combined
membership is put at 100 . These Lodges took
new charters and Washington Lodge became
No . 1, Western Star No . 2, Morning Star No .
3, and Mt . Horeb No . 4 . The first two are in
existence, but the last two are defunct .
The Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons
was organized April 28, 1851 by three Chap-
ters located at Fayettville, Little Rock, and
El 'Dorado, which had previously received
charters from the General Grand Chapter of
the United States .
The Grand Council of Royal and Select
Masters was established in the year 1860 .
The Grand Commandery of the Order of
the Temple was organized on March 23, 1872 .
A Lodge, Council, Chapter, Council of
Kadosh and Consistory of the Scottish Rite
are established at Little Rock .
Arklte Worship . 	The almost universal
prevalence among the nations of antiquity of
some tradition of a long past deluge, gave
rise to certain mythological doctrines and re-
ligious ceremonies, to which has been given
the name of arkite worship, which was very
extensively diffused . The evidence of this is
to be found in the sacred feeling which was
entertained for the sacredness of high moun-
tains, derived, it is supposed, from recollec-
tions of an Ararat, and from the presence in
all the Mysteries of a basket, chest, or coffer,
whose mystical character bore apparently a
reference to the ark of Noah . On the subject
of this arkite worship, Bryant, Faber, Higgins,
Banier, and many other writers, have made
learned investigations, which may be con-
sulted with advantage by the Masonic arche-
ologist .
Ark Mariner, Royal, Jewel of . The
jewel of this degree prefigures the teachings,
which are unique, and draws their symbols
from the sea, rain, ark, dove, olive-branch,
and Rainbow . This last symbol, as El's sign,
" overshadows " the ark, which really is the
sign of Ishtar . The ark is said to have con-
tained all the elements of Elohim's creative
power, and in " about nine months and three
days there came forth the pent-up energies of
Maiya" ; her symbol is the dove with the
mystic olive, which are sacred to her . The
whole underlying thought is that of creation .
See illustration on opposite page .
Armenbiiehse . 	The poor-box ; the name
given by German Masons to the box in which
collections of money are made at a Table-
Lodge for the relief of poor brethren and their
families .

ARMIES
Armes . 	A corrupted form of Hermes
found in the Lansdowne and some other old
manuscripts .
Armlger . 	1 . A bearer of 	arms . The
title given by heralds to the esquire who
waited on a knight . 	2 . The Sixth Degree of
the Order of African Architects .
Armory . 	An apartment attached to the
asylum of a oommandery of Knights Tem-
plars, in which the swords and other parts of
the costume of the knights are deposited for
safe-keeping .
Armor . 	In English statutes, armor is
used for the whole apparatus of war ; offensive
and defensive arms . 	In the Order of the
Temple pieces of armor are used to a limited
extent . 	In the chivalric degrees of the Scot-
tish Rite, in order to carry out the symbolism
as well as to render effect to its dramas, armor
pieces and articles for use of knights become
necessary, with mantling, crest, mottoes, etc .
Some are herein enumerated :
AILLETTES-Square shields for the shoul-
ders .
ANLACE-Short dagger worn at the girdle .
BALDRIC-Belt diagonally crossing the
body .
BATTLE-Ax Weapon with ax-blade and
spear-head .
BEAVER-Front of helmet, which is raised
to admit food and drink .
BEAKER-The drinking-cup with mouth-
lip .
BELT-For body . 	Badge of knightly rank .
BRAssART-Armor to protect 	the arm
from elbow to shoulder .
BUCKLER-A long shield for protecting the
body .
CORSELET-Breastplate .
CREST-Ornament on helmet designating
rank .
CUIRAss-Backplate .
FASCES-Armor for the thighs, hung from
the corselet .
GADLIxo--, .Sharp metallic knuckles 	on
gauntlet .
GAVNTL.r-Mailed gloves .
AROBA 	79
GoRGET-Armor for the neck .
HALBERD-Long-pole ax .
HAUBERK-Shirt of mail, of rings or scales .
HELMET or CASQUE--Armor for the head .
JAMBEUx-Armor for the legs .
JUroN-Sleeveless jacket, to the hips .
LANcE-Long spear with metallic head and
pennon .
MACE-Heavy, short staff of metal, ending
with spiked ball .
MANTLE---Outer cloak .
MoRIoN-Head armor without vizor .
PENNON-A pennant, or short streamer,
bifurcated .
PLUME-The designation of knighthood .
SALLET-Light helmet for foot-soldiers .
SPEAR-Sword, spur, shield .
VIZOR-Front of helmet (slashed), moving
on pivots .
Arms of Masonry . 	Stow says that the
Masons were incorporated as a company in
the twelfth year of Henry IV ., 1412 . 	Their
arms were granted to them, in 1472, by Will-
iam Hawkesloe, Clarenceux King-at-Arms,
and are azure on a chevron between three
castles argent ; a pair of compasses somewhat
extended, of the first . Crest, a castle of the
second . 	They were adopted, subsequently
by the Grand Lodge of England . The Atholl
Grand Lodge objected to this as an unlawful
assumption by the Modern Grand Lodge of
Speculative Freemasons of the arms of the
Operative Masons . They accordingly adopted
another coat, which Dermott blazons as fol-
lows : Quarterly per squares, counterchanged
vert . In the first quarter, azure, a lion rampant,
or . In the second quarter, or, an ox passant
sable . 	In the third quarter, or, a man with
hands erect proper, robed crimson and ermine .
In the fourth quarter, azure, an eagle displayed
or . Crest the holy ark of the covenant proper,
supported by cherubim . 	Motto, Kodes la
Adonai, that is, Holiness to the Lord .
These arms are derived from the "tet-
rarchical" (as Sir Thos . Browne calls them),
or general banners of the four principal tribes ;
for it is said that the twelve tribes, during their
passage through the wilderness, 	were en-
camped in a hollow square, three on each side,
as follows : Judah, Zebulun, and Issachar, in
the East, under the general banner of Judah ;
Dan, Asher, and Naphtali, in the North, under
the banner of Dan ; 	Ephraim, Manasseh,
and Benjamin, in the West, under the banner
of Ephraim ; and Reuben, Simeon, and Gad,
in the South, under Reuben . See Banners .
Aroba . 	Pledge, 	covenant, agreement .
(Latin, Arrhabo, a token or pledge . Hebrew,
Arab, which is the root of Arubbah, surety,
hostage .) 	This important word, in the Four-
teenth Degree of the Scottish Rite, is used
when the initiate partakes of the "Ancient
Aroba," the pledge or covenant of friendship,
by eating and drinking with his new compan-
ions . 	The word is of greater import than
that implied in mere hospitality . The word
"aroba
implied nowhere in English works,
and seems to have been omitted by Masonic
writers . The root " arab " is one of the oldest

80 	ARRAS
in the Hebrew language, and means to inter-
weave or to mingle, to exchange, to become
surety for anyone, and to pledge even the
life of one person for another, or the strongest
pledge that can be given . 	Judah pleads with
Israel to let Benjamin go with him to be pre-
sented in Egypt to Jose~ ph, as the latter had
requested . 	He says : "Send the lad with me -
I will be surety for him" (Gen . xliii . 9) ; and
before Joseph he makes the same remark in
Gen . xliv . 32 . 	Job, in chap . xvii . 3, appeal-
ing to God, says : "Put me in a surety with
thee ; who is he that will strike hands with
me? " 	(See also 1 Sam . xvii . 18 .) 	In its pure
form, the word " arubbah " occurs only once
in the Old Testament (Prov . xvii . 18) : "A
man void of understanding striketh hands, and
becometh surety in the presence of his friend ."
In Latin, Plautus makes use of the following
phrase : "Hunt arrhabonem amorisame accipe ."
Arras, Primordial Chapter of . Arras is
a town in France in the department of Pas de
Calais, where, in the year 	1747, Charles
Edward Stuart, the Pretender, is said to have
established a Sovereign Primordial and Metro-
politan Chapter of Rosicrucian Freemasons . A
portion of the charter of this body is given by
Ragon in his Orthodoxie Maconique . 	In 1853,
the Count de Hamel, prefect of the department,
discovered an authentic copy in parchment,
of this document hearing the date of April 15
1747, which he deposited in the departmental
archives . 	This document is as follows :
"We, Charles Edward, king of England,
France, Scotland, and Ireland, and as such
Substitute Grand Master of the Chapter of
H ., known by the title of Knight of the Eagle
and Pelican, and since our sorrows and mis-
fortunes by that of Rose Croix, wishing to
testify our gratitude to the Masons of Artois,
and the officers of the city of Arras, for the
numerous marks of kindness which they in
conjunction with the officers of the garrison
of Arras have lavished upon us, and their
attachment to our person, shown during a
residence of six months in that city,
" We have in favor of them created and
erected, and do create and erect by the present
bull, in the aforesaid city of Arras, a Sovereign
Primordial Chapter of Rose Croix, under the
distinctive title of Scottish Jacobite, (tcosse
Jacobite,) to be ruled and governed by the
Knights Lagneau and Robesp ierre ; Avocats
Hazard, and his two sons, physicians ; J . B .
Lucet, our upholsterer, and Jer8me Cellier,
our clock-maker, giving to them and to their
successors the power not only to make knights,
but even to create a Chapter in whatever town
they may think fit, provided that two Chap-
ters shall not be created in the same town
however populous it may be .
"And that credit may be given to our
present bull, we have signed it with our hand
and caused to be affixed thereunto the secret
seal, and countersigned by the secretary of our
cabinet, Thursday, 15th of the second month
of the year of the incarnation, 1747 .
"CHARLES EDWARD STUART .
"Countersigned, 	BERKLEY ."
ASCENSION
This Chapter created a few others, and in
1780 established one in Paris, under the dis-
tinctive title of Chapter of Arras, in the valley
of Paris . 	It united itself to the Grand Orient
of France on the 27th of December, 1801 . 	It
was declared First Suffragan of the Scottish
Jacobite Chapter, with the right to constitute
others . 	The Chapter established at Arras
by the Pretender was named the "Eagle and
Pelican," and Oliver (Orig . of R . A ., p 22)
from this seeks to find, perhaps justifiabl , a
connection between it and the R . S . Y. C . S .
of the Royal Order of Scotland . 	[The story
of the establishment of this Chapter by the
Pretender is doubted by some writers and it
certainly lacks confirmation ; even his joining
the Craft at all is disputed by several who have
carefully studied the subject .-E . L . H .]
Arrest of Charter . 	To arrest the charter
of a Lodge is a technical phrase by which is
meant to suspend the work of a Lodge, to
prevent it from holding its usual communica-
tions, and to forbid it to transact any business
or to do any work . 	A Grand Master cannot
revoke the warrant of a Lodge ; but if, in his
opinion, the good of Masonry or any other
sufficient cause requires it, he may suspend
the operation of the warrant until the next
communication of the Grand Lodge, which
body is alone competent to revise or approve of
his action .
Ars Quatuor Coronatorum is the name
under which the Transactions of the Lodge
Quatuor Coronati, No . 2076, London, the
premier literary Lodge of the world, are pub-
lished in annual volumes, commencing with
1888 .
Arthuslus, Gotthardus . 	A learned na-
tive of Dantzic, Rector of the Gymnasium at
Fr ank fort-on-the-Main, 	who wrote 	many
works on Rosicrucianism, under the assumed
name of Irenmus Agnostus . 	(See Agnostus .)
Artisan, Chief . 	An officer in the Council
of Knights of Constantinople .
Art, Royal . 	See Royal Art .
Arts . 	In the Masonic phrase "arts, parts,
and points of the Mysteries of Masonry " ;
arts means the knowledge, or things made
known, parts the degrees into which Masonry
is divided, and points the rules and usA,ges .
(See Parts, and also Points .)
Arts, 	Liberal . 	See Liberal 	Arts and
Sciences .
Arundel, Thomas Howard, Earl of .
Tradition places Arundel as the Grand Master
of English Freemasons from 1633 to 1635 . This
is in accordance with Anderson and Preston,, .
Aryan . 	One of the three historical di-i
visions of religion-the other two being the ! .
Turanian and the Shemitic . It produced .
Brahmanism, Buddhism, and the Code of
Zoroaster .
Asarota . 	A variegated pavement used for
flooring in temples and ancient edifices .
Ascension Day . 	Also called Holy Thurs-
day . 	A festival of the Christian church held
in commemoration of the ascension of our
Lord forty days after Easter . It is celebrated
as a feast day by Chapters of Rose Croix .

ASES 	ASHMOLE 	81
Ases . 	The twelve gods and as many god- Masons' 	company this present year ; Mr .
desses in the Scandinavian mythology . Thomas Shorthofe, Mr . Thomas Shadbolt,
Ashe, D .D ., Rev . Jonathan . 	A literary 	Waindsford Esq ., Mr . Nicholas Young,
plagiarist who resided in Bristol, England . In Mr . John Shorthofe, Mr . William Hamon,
1814 he published The Masonic Manual ; or, Mr . John Thompson, and Mr . William Stan-
Lectures on Freemasonry . 	Ashe does not, it ton . 	We all dyned at the halfe Moone
is true, pretend to originality, but abstains Taverne in Cheapeside, at a noble dinner pre-
from giving credit to Hutchinson, from whom pared at the charge of the new Accepted
he has taken at least two-thirds of his book . Masons ."*
A second edition appeared in 1825, and in 	It is to be regretted that the intention ex-
1843 an edition was published by Spencer, pressed by Ashmole to write a history of Free-
with valuable notes by Dr . Oliver . 	masonry was never carried into effect . 	His
Asher, Dr . Carl Wilhelm . 	The first laborious research as evinced in his exhaustive
translator into German of the Halliwell or work on the Order of the Garter, would lead us
" Regius " MS ., which he published at Ham- to have expected from his antiquarian pen a
burg, in 1842, under the title of Aelteste Ur- record of the origin and early progress of our
kunde der Freimaurerei in England . 	This Institution more valuable than any that we
work contains both the original English docu- 	now possess . 	The following remarks on this
ment and the German translation . 	subject, contained in a letter from Dr . Knipe,
Ashlar . 	"Freestone as it comes out of the of Christ Church, Oxford, to the publisher of
quarry ." Bailey . 	In Speculative Masonry Ashmole's Life, while it enables us to form
we adopt the ashlar in two different states, as 	some estimate of the loss that Masonic litera-
symbols in the Apprentice's Degree . The ture has suffered, supplies interesting par-
Rough Ashlar, or stone in its rude and un- ticulars which are worthy of preservation .
polished condition, is emblematic of man in 	"As to the ancient society of Freemasons,
his natural state-ignorant, uncultivated, and 	concerning whom you are desirous of knowing
vicious . 	But when education has exerted its what may be known with certainty, I shall
wholesome influence in expanding his intellect, only tell you, that if our worthy Brother, E .
restraining his passions, and purifying his life, 	Ashmole, Esq ., had executed his intended
he then is represented by the Perfect Ashlar, design, our Fraternity had been as much
which, under the skilful hands of the workmen, 	obliged to him as the Brethren of the most
has been smoothed, and squared, and fitted noble Order of the Garter . 	I would not have
for its place in the building . 	In the older you surprised at this expression, or think it
lectures of the eighteenth century the Perfect all too assuming. The sovereigns of that Order
Ashlar is not mentioned, but its place was have not disdained our fellowship, and there
supplied by the Broached Thurnel . 	have been times when emperors were also
Ashmole, Ellas . 	A celebrated antiquary, Freemasons . 	What from Mr . E . Ashmole's
and the author of, among other works, the collection I could gather was, that the report
well-known History of the Order of the Garter, of our society's taking rise from a bull granted
and founder of the Ashmolean Museum at by the Pope, in the reign of Henry III ., to
Oxford . 	He was born at Litchfield, in Eng- 	some Italian architects to travel over all
land, on the 23d of May, 1617, and died at Lon- Europe, to erect chapels, was ill-founded .
don on the 18th of May,1692 . 	He was made a Such a bull there was, and those architects
Freemason on the 16th of October, 1646, and were Masons ; but this bull, in the opinion of
gives the following account of his reception in the learned Mr . Ashmole, was confirmative
his Diary, p . 303 . 	only, and did not by any means create our
"1646 . 	Oct : 16 . 	4 4 30' p . m ., I was Fraternity, or even establish them in this
made a Freemason at Warrington, in Lanca- kingdom . 	But as to the time and manner of
shire, with Colonel Henry Mainwaring, of that establishment, something I shall relate
Karincham, in Cheshire . The names of those from the same collections . 	St . Alban the
that were then of the Lodge, Mr . Richard Proto-Martyr of England, established Ma-
Penket Warden 	Mr . James Collier 	Mr . sonry here ; and from his time it flourished
Rich : Sankey, henry Littler, John hllam, more or less, according as the world went,
Rich : Ellam and Hugh Brewer ." 	down to the days of King Athelstan, who, for
In another place he speaks of his attendance the sake of his brother Edwin, granted the
at a meeting (Diary, p . 362), and thirty-six Masons a charter under our Norman princes .
years afterward makes the following entry : 	They frequently received extraordinary marks
"1682 . 	March 10 . 	About 5 H . m ., I of royal favor . 	There is no doubt to be made,
received a summons to appear at a Lodge to that the skill of Masons, which was always
be held the next day at Masons' Hall, London . transcendent, even in the most barbarous
"11 . 	Accordingly, 	I went, and about times,-their wonderful kindness and attach-
Noone were admitted into the Fellowship of ment to each other, how different soever in
Freemasons, 	Sir William Wilson, 	knight, condition, and their inviolable fidelity in keep-
Capt . Richard Borthwick, Mr . William Wood- ing religiously their secret,-must expose them
man, Mr . William Wise . 	in ignorant, troublesome, and suspicious times
"I was the senior fellow among them, (it
being thirty-five years since I was admitted ;) *These entries have been reproduced in fac-
there was present besides myself the Fellowes 1 simile in vol . XI of Ars Quatuor Coronatorum
afternamed : Mr . Thomas Wise, Master of the 1(1898) .

82 	ASIA
to a vast variety of adventures, according to
the different fate of parties and other altera-
tions in government . 	By the way, I shall
note that the Masons were always loyal, which
exposed them to great severities when power
wore the trappings of justice, and those who
committed treason punished 	true men as
traitors . 	Thus, in the third year of the reign
of Henry VI ., an act of Parliament was
passed to abolish the society of Masons, and
to hinder, under grievous penalties, the holding
Chapters, Lodges, or other regular assemblies .
Yet this act was afterwards repealed, and even
before that, King Henry VI ., and several of
the principal lords of his court, became fellows
of the Craft ."
Asia . 	In the French Rite of Adoption, the
East end of the Lodge is called Asia .
Asia, Initiated Knights and Brothers
of . 	This Order was introduced in Berlin, or,
as some say, in Vienna, in the year 1780, by a
schism of several members of the German
Rose Croix . 	They adopted a mixture of
Christian, Jewish, and Mohammedan cere-
monies, to indicate, as Ragon supposes, their
entire religious tolerance . Their object was
the study of the natural sciences and the
search for the universal panacea to prolong
life . 	Thory charges them with this ; but may
it not have been, as with the Alchemists,
merely a symbol of immortality? 	They for-
bade all inquiries into the art of transmuta-
tion of metals . The Grand Synedrion, prop-
erly the Grand Sanhedrim, which consisted of
seventy-two members and was the head of the
Order, had its seat at Vienna . 	The Order was
founded on the three symbolic degrees, and
attached to them nine others, as follows : 4 .
Seekers ; 5 . Sufferers ; 6 . Initiated Knights
and Brothers of Asia in Europe ; 7 . Masters
and Sages ; 8 . Royal Priests, or True Brothers
of Rose Croix ; 9 . Melchizedek . The Order no
longer exists . 	Many details of it will be
found in Luehet'sEssai sur les Illumines .
Asia, Perfect Initiates of . 	A rite of very
little importance, consisting of seven degrees,
and said to have been invented at Lyons . 	A
vervoluminous manuscript, translated from
the - German, was sold at Paris, in 1821, to M .
Bailleul, and came into the possession of
Ragon, who reduced its size, and, with the
assistance of Des Etangs, modified it . 	I
have no knowledge that it was ever worked .
Ask, Seek, Knock . 	In referring to the
passage of Matthew vii . 7, "Ask, and it shall
be given you ; seek, and ye shall find ; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you," Dr . Clarke
says : "These three words-ask, seek, knock-
include the ideas of want, loss and earnestness ."
The application made to the passage theo-
logically is equally appropriate to it in a Ma-
sonic Lodge . You ask for acceptance, you seek
for light, you knock for initiation, which in-
cludes the other two .
Aspirant . 	One who eagerly seeks to know
or to attain something . 	Thus, Warburton
speaks of "the aspirant to the Mysteries ."
It is applied also to one about to be initiated
into Masonry . There seems, however, to be
ASSASSINS
a shade of difference in meaning between the
words candidate and aspirant . 	The candidate
is one who asks for admission ; so called from
the Lat . candidatus "clothed in white," be-
cause candidates for office at Rome wore a
white dress . 	The aspirant is one already
elected and in process of initiation, and coming
from aspiro, to seek eagerly, refers to the
earnestness with which he prosecutes his
search for light and truth .
Assassins . 	The Ishmaelites, or Assassins,
constituted a sect or confraternity, which was
founded by Hassan Sabah, about the year
1090, in Persia . 	The name is derived, it is
supposed, from their immoderate use of the
plant haschish, or henbane, which produced
a delirious frenzy . The title given to the chief
of the Order was Sheikh-el- .Jebel, which has
been translated the "Old Man of the Moun-
tain," but which Higgins has shown (Anacal .,
i ., 700) to mean literally "The Sage of the
Kabbala or Traditions ." 	Von Hammer has
written a History of the Assassins, but his
opposition to secret societies has led him to
speak with so much prejudice that, although
his historical statements are interesting, his
philosophical deductions have to be taken
with many grains of allowance . 	Godfrey
Higgins has probably erred on the other side,
and by a too ready adherence to a precon-
ceived theory has, in his Anacalypsis, con-
founded them with the Templars, whom he
considers as the precursors of the Freemasons .
In this, as in most things, the middle course
appears to be the most truthful .
The Assassins were a secret society that is
to say, they had a secret esoteric doctrine,
which was imparted only to the initiated .
Hammer says that they had a graduated
series of initiations, the names of which he
gives as Apprentices, Fellows, and Masters ;
they had, too, an oath of passive obedience,
and resembled, he asserts, in many respects,
the secret societies that subsequently existed
in Europe . 	They were governed by a Grand
Master and Priors, and had regulations and
a special religious code, in all of which Von
Hammer finds a close resemblance to the Tem-
plars, the Hospitalers, and the Teutonic
Knights . 	Between the Assassins and the
Templars history records that there were
several amicable transactions not at all con-
sistent with the religious vows of the latter
and the supposed religious faith of the former,
and striking coincidences of feeling, of which
Higgins has not been slow to avail himself in
his attempt to prove the close connection, if
not absolute identity, of the two Orders . It is
most probable, as Sir John Malcolm contends,
that they were a race of Sofis, the teachers
of the secret doctrine of Mohammed . 	Von
Hammer admits that they produced a great
number of treatises on mathematics and
jurisprudence ; and, forgetting for a time his
bigotry and his prejudice, he attributes to
Hassan, their founder, a profound knowledge
of philosophy and mathematical and meta-
physical sciences, and an enlightened spirit
under whose influence the civilization of

ASSASSINS
Persia attained a high degree ; so that during
his reign of forty-six years the Persian litera-
ture attained a point of excellence beyond that
of Alexandria under the Ptolemies, and of
France under Francis I . 	The old belief that
they were a confederacy of murderers-whence
we have taken our English word assassins-
must now be abandoned as a figment of the
credulity of past centuries, and we must be con-
tent to look upon them as a secret society of
philosophers, whose political relations, how-
ever, merged them into a dynasty . 	If we
interpret Freemasonry as a generic term,
signifying a philosophic sect which teaches
truth by a mystical initiation and secret sym-
bols, then Higgms was not very far in error in
calling them the Freemasons of the East .
Assassins of the Third Degree . 	There
is in Freemasonry a legend of certain un-
worthy Craftsmen who entered into a con-
spiracy to extort from a distinguished brother
a secret of which he was the possessor . 	The
legend is altogether symbolic, and when its
symbolism is truly comprehended, becomes
surpassingly beautiful . 	By those who look
at it as having the pretension of an historical
fact, it is sometimes treated with indifference,
and sometimes considered an absurdity . 	But
it is not thus that the legends and symbols of
Masonry must be read, if we would learn
their true spirit . 	To behold the goddess in
all her glorious beauty, the veil that conceals
her statue must be withdrawn . 	Masonic
writers who have sought to interpret the sym-
bolism of the legend of the conspiracy of the
three assassins, have not agreed always in the
interpretation, although they have finally
arrived at the same result, namely, that it has
a spiritual signification . 	Those who trace
Speculative Masonry to the ancient solar
worship, of whom Ragon may be considered as
the exponent, find in this legend a symbol of
the conspiracy of the three winter months to
destroy the life-giving heat of the sun . Those
who, like the disciples of the Rite of Strict
Observance, trace Masonry to a Templar
origin, explain the legend as referring to the
conspiracy of the three renegade knights who
falsely accused the Order, and thus aided King
Philip and Pope Clement to abolish Templar-
ism, and to slay its Grand Master . 	Hutchin-
son and Oliver, who labored to give a Christian
interpretation to all the symbols of Ma-
sonry, referred the legend to the crucifixion of
the Messiah, the type of which is, of course,
the slaying of Abel by his brother Cain .
Others, of whom the Chevalier Ramsay was
the leader, sought to give it a political sig-
nificance ; and, making Charles I . the type
of the Builder, symbolized Cromwell and
his adherents as the conspirators . 	The Ma-
sonic scholars whose aim has been to identify
the modern system of Freemasonry with the
Ancient Mysteries, and especially with the
Egyptian, which they supposed to be the germ
of all the others, interpret the conspirators as
the symbol of the Evil Principle, or Typhon,
slaying the Good Principle or Osiris ; or, when
they refer to the Zoroastio'Mysteriea of Persia,
ASSOCIATES 	83
as Ahriman contending against Ormuzd . And
lastly, in the Philosophic degrees, the myth is
interpreted as signifying the war of Falsehood,
Ignorance, and Superstition against Truth .
Of the supposed names of the three Assassins,
there is hardly any end of variations, for they
materially differ in all the principal rites .
Thus, we have Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum in
the York and American Rites . 	In the Adon-
hiramite system we have Romvel, Gravelot,
and Abiram . 	In the Scottish Rite we find the
names given in the old rituals as Jubelum
Akirop, sometimes Abiram, Jubelo Romvel,
and Jubela Gravelot . 	Schterke and Oterfiit
are in some of the German rituals, while other
Scottish rituals have Abiram, Romvel, and
Hobhen . 	In all these names there is mani-
fest corruption, and the patience of many
Masonic scholars has been well-nigh ex-
hausted in seeking for some plausible and
satisfactory derivation .
Assembly . 	The meetings of the Craft dur-
ing the operative period in the Middle Ages,
were called "assemblies," which appear to
have been tantamount to the modern Lodges
and they are constantly spoken of in the Old'
Constitutions . 	The word assembly was also
often used in these documents to indicate a
larger meeting of the whole Craft, which was
equivalent to the modem Grand Lodge, and
which was held annually . The York MS .,
No . 1, about the year 1600, says " that Edwin
procured of ye King his father a charter and
commission to hold every yeare ap assembly
wheresoever they would within ye realm of
England," and this statement, whether true
or false, is repeated in all the old records .
Preston says, speaking of that medieval
period, that "a sufficient number of Masons
met together within a certain district, with
the consent of the sheriff or chief magistrate
of the place, were empowered at this time to
make Masons," etc . 	To this assembly, every
Mason was bound, 	when summoned, to
appear . 	Thus, in the Harleian MS ., circa
1660, it is ordained that "every Master and
Fellow come to the Assembly, if it be within
five miles about him, if he have any warning ."
The term "General Assembly," to indicate
the annual meeting, is said to have been first
used at the meeting, held on December 27,
1663, as quoted by Preston . 	In the Old
Constitutions printed in 1722 by Roberts
and which claims to be taken from a MS . of
the eighteenth century, the term used is
"Yearly Assembly ." 	Anderson speaks of an
Old 	Constitution 	which 	used 	the 	word
"General ;" but his quotations are not always
verbally accurate .
Assistance . 	See Aid and Assistance .
Associates of the Temple . 	During the
Middle Ages, many persons of rank, who were
desirous of participating in the spiritual ad-
vantages supposed to be enjoyed by the
Templars in consequence of the good works
done by the Fraternity, but who were unwill-
ing to submit to the discipline of the brethren
made valuable donations to the Order, and
were, in consequence, admitted into a sort of

84 	ASSOCIATION
spiritual connection with it . These persona
were termed "Associates of the Temple ."
The . custom was most probably confined to
England, and many "of these Associates"
had monuments and effigies erected to them
in the Temple Church at London .
Association . 	Although an association is
properly the union of men into a society for
a common purpose, the word is scarcely ever
applied to the Order of Freemasonry . Yet
its employment, although unusual, would not
be incorrect, for Freemasonry is an associa-
tion of men for a common purpose . Wash-
ington uses the term when he calls Free-
masonry "an association whose principles lead
to purity of morals, and are beneficial of
action ." 	(Letter to G . L . of So . Ca .)
Assyrian Architecture . The discovery in
1882 of the remains of a town, close to, and
north of, Nineveh, built by Sargon, about 721
Bs cc 	in size about a mile square, with its
angles facing the cardinal points, and the
enclosure containing the finest specimens of
their architecture, revived much interest in
archeologists . The chief place of regard is
the royal palace, which was like unto a city
of itself, everything being on a colossal scale .
The walls of the town were 45 feet thick . The
inclined approach to the palace was flanked by
strangely formed bulls from 15 to 19 feet high .
There were terraces, courts, and passage-ways
to an innermost square of 150 feet, surrounded
by state apartments and temples . The Hall
of Judgment was prominent, as also the astro-
nomical observatory . All entrances to great
buildings were ornamented by colossal animals
and porcelain decorations and inscriptions .
Astrwa . 	The Grand Lodge established in
Russia on the 30th of August, 1815, assumed
the title of the Grand Lodge of Astrxa . It
held its Grand East at St . Petersburg, and
continued in existence until 1822, when the
Czar issued a Ukase, dated August 1, 1822,
closing all Lodges in Russia and forbidding
them to reopen at any future time .
Astrology . 	A 	science demanding the
respect of the scholar, notwithstanding its
designation as a "black art," and, in a reflec-
tive sense, an occult science ; a system of divi-
nation foretelling results by the relative posi-
tions of the planets and other heavenly bodies
toward the earth . Men of eminence have
adhered to the doctrines of astrology as a
science . It is a study well considered in, and
forming an important part of, the ceremonies
of the "Philosophus," or fourth grade of the
First Order of the Society of Rosicrucians .
Astrology has been deemed the twin science
of astronomy, grasping knowledge from the
heavenly bodies, and granting a proper under-
standing of many of the startling forces in
nature . It is claimed that the constellations
of the zodiac govern the earthly animals, and
that every star has its peculiar nature, prop-
erty, and function, the seal and character of
which it impresses through its rays upon
plants, minerals, and animal life. This science
was known to the ancients as the "divine
art ." 	(See Magic .)
ATHEIST
Astronomy . 	The science which instructs
us in the laws that govern the heavenly bodies .
Its origin is lost in the mists of antiquity ; for
the earliest inhabitants of the earth must have
been attracted by the splendor of the glorious
firmament above them, and would have
sought in the motions of its luminaries for the
readiest and most certain method of measur-
ing time . With astronomy the system of
Freemasonry is intimately connected . From
that science many of our most significant
emblems are borrowed . The Lodge itself is
a representation of the world ; it is adorned
with the images of the sun and moon, whose
regularity and precision furnish a lesson of
wisdom and prudence ; its pillars of strength
and establishment have been compared to the
two columns which the ancients placed at the
equinoctial points as supporters of the arch
of heaven ; the blazing star, which was among
the Egyptians a symbol of Anubis, or the dog-
star, whose rising foretold the overflowing of
the Nile, shines in the East ; while the clouded
canopy is decorated with the beautiful
Pleiades . The connection between our Order
and astronomy is still more manifest in the
spurious Freemasonry of antiquity, where, the
pure principles of our system being lost, the
symbolic instruction of the heavenly bodies
gave place to the corrupt Sabean worship of
the sun, and moon, and stars-a worship
whose influences are seen in all the mysteries
of Paganism .
Asylum . 	During the session of a Com-
mandery of Knights Templars, a part of the
room is called the asylum ; the word has hence
been adopted, by the figure synecdoche, to
signify the place of meeting of a Command-
cry .
Asylum for Aged Freemasons . 	The
Asylum for Aged and Decayed Freemasons is
a magnificent edifice at Croydon in Surrey,
England . The charity was established by
Dr . Crucefix, after sixteen years of herculean
toil, such as few men but himself could have
sustained . He did not live to see it in full
operation, but breathed his last at the very
time when the cope-stone was placed on the
building . 	(See Annuities .)
Atelier . 	The French thus call the place
where the Lodge meets, or the Lodge room .
The word signifies a worksho or place where
several workmen are assembled under the
same master . The word is applied in French
Masonry not only to the lace of meeting of a
Lodge, but also to that of pa Chapter, Council,
or any other Masonic body . Bazot says
(Man . Mason, 65) that atelier is more par-
ticularly applied to the Table-Lodge, or Lodge
when at banquet, but that the word is also
used to designate any reunion of the Lodge .
Atheist . 	One who does not believe in the
existence of God . Such a state of mind can
only arise from the ignorance of stupidity or a
corruption of principle, since the whole uni-
verse is filled with the moral and physical
proofs of a Creator . He who does not look to
a superior and superintending power as his
maker and his judge, is without that coercive

ATITELSTAN
principle of salutary fear which should prompt
him to do good and to eschew evil, and his
oath can, of necessity, be no stronger than his
word . 	Masons, looking to the dangerous
tendency of such a tenet, have wisely dis-
couraged it, by declaring that no atheist can
be admitted to participate in their Fraternity ;
and the better to carry this law into effect,
every candidate, before passing through an
of the ceremonies of initiation, is required,
publicly and solemnly, to declare his trust in
God .
Athelstan . 	The grandson of the great
Alfred ascended the throne of England in
924, and died in 940 . The Old Constitutions
describe him as a great patron of Masonry .
Thus, one of them, the Roberts MS ., printed
in 1722, and claiming to be five hundred years
old, says : "He began to build many Abbeys,
Monasteries, and other religious houses, as
also castles and divers Fortresses for defence
of his realm . He loved Masons more than
his father ; he greatly study'd Geometry, and
sent into many lands for men expert in the
science . He gave them a very large charter
to hold a yearly assembly, and power to cor-
rect offenders in the said science ; and the king
himself caused a General Assembly of all
Masons in his realm, at York, and there made
many Masons, and gave them a deep charge
for observation of all such articles as belonged
unto Masonry, and delivered them the said
Charter to keep ."
Atholl Masons . The "Ancient" Masons
are sometimes called "Atholl" Masons, be-
cause they were presided over by the Third
Duke of Atholl as their Grand Master from
1771 to 1774, and by the Fourth Duke from
1775 to 1781, and also from 1791 to 1813 .
(See Ancient Masons .)
Atossa . 	The daughter of King Cyrus of
Persia, Queen of Cambyses, and afterward of
Darius Hystaspes, to whom she bore Xerxes .
Referred to in the degree of Prince of Jeru-
salem, the Sixteenth of the Scottish Rite .
Attendance . 	See Absence .
1
Attouchement . The name given by the
French Masons to what the English call the
Attributes . 	The collar and jewel appro-
priate to an officer are called his attributes .
The working tools and implements of Masonry
are also called its attributes . The word in
these senses is much more used by French
than by English Masons .
Atwood, Henry C . 	At one time of con-
siderable notoriety in the Masonic history of
NewYork . He was born in Connecticut about
the beginning of the present century, and re-
moved to the city of New York about 1825,
in which year he organized a Lodge for the
purpose of introducing the system taught by
Jeremy L . Cross, of whom Atwood was a
pupil . This system met with great opposi-
tipn from some of the most distinguished
Masons of the State, who favored the ancient
ritual, which had existed before the system of
Webb had been invented, from whom Cross
received his lectures . Atwood, by great smart-
AUFSEHER 	85
ness and untiring energy, succeeded in making
the system which he taught eventually popu-
lar . 	He took great interest in Mason T and
being intellectually clever, although not
learned, he collected a great number of ad-
mirers, while the tenacity with which he main-
tained his opinions, however unpopular they
might be, secured for him as many enemies .
He was greatly instrumental in establishing,
in 1837, the schismatic body known as the
St . John's Grand Lodge, and was its Grand
Master at the time of its union, in 1850, with
the legitimate Grand Lodge of New York .
Atwood edited a small Masonic periodical
called The Sentinel, which was remarkable for
the virulent and unmasonic tone of its articles .
He was also the author of a Masonic Moni-
tor of some pretensions . He died in 1860 .
Atys . The Mysteries of Atys in Phrygia,
and those of Cybele his mistress, like their
worship, much resembled those of Adonis and
Bacchus, Osiris and Isis . Their Asiatic origin
is universally admitted, and was with great
plausibility claimed by Phrygia, which con-
tested the palm of antiquity with Egypt .
They, more than any other people, mingled
allegory with their religious worship, and were
great inventors of fables ; and their sacred tra-
ditions as to Cybele and Atys, whom all admit
to be Phrygian gods, were very various . In
all, as we learn from Julius Firmicus, they
represented by allegory the phenomena of
nature, and the succession of physical facts
under the veil of a marvelous history .
Their feasts occurred at the equinoxes,
commencing with lamentation, mourning,
groans, and pitiful cries for the death of Atys,
and ending with rejoicings at his restoration
to life .
" Audi, Vide, Tace ." (Hear, see, and be
silent .) 	A motto frequently found on Ma-
sonic medals, and often appropriately used in
Masonic documents . It was adopted as its
motto by the United Grand Lodge of Eng-
land at the union between the "Ancients"
and the "Moderns " in 1813 .
Auditor .. 	An officer in the Supreme Coun-
cil of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite
for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United
States. His duty is, with the Committee on Fi-
nance, to examine and report on the accounts of
the Inspector and other officers . This duty of
auditing the accounts of the Secretary and
Treasurer is generally entrusted, in Masonic
bodies, to a special committee appointed for
the purpose . 	In the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, the accounts are audited annually by a
professional auditor, who must be a Master
Mason .
Auditors . 	The first class of the secret
system adopted by the Christians in their
early days . The second class were Catechu-
mens, and the third were The Faithful .
Aufseher . 	The German name for the
Warden of a Lodge . The Senior Warden is
called Erste Aufseher, and the Junior War-
den, Zweite Aufseher . The word literally
means an overseer . Its Masonic application
is technical .

86 	AUGER
Auger . 	An implement used as a symbol
in the Ark Mariners Degree .
Augustine, St . 	See Saint Augustine .
Augustus William, Prince of Prussia .
Born in 1722, died in 1758 . Brother of Fred-
erick the Great, and father of King Frederick
William II . 	A member of Lodge "Drei
Weltkugeln " Berlin .
Aum . 	A mystic syllable among the Hin-
dus, signifying the Supreme God of Gods,
which the Brahmans, from its awful and sa-
cred meaning, hesitate to pronounce aloud,
and in doing so place one of their hands be-
fore the mouth so as to deaden the sound .
This triliteral name of God, which is as sacred
among the Hindus as the Tetragrammatain
is among the Jews is composed of three San-
skrit letters, souncfing AUM . The first letter,
A, stands for the Creator ; the second, U, for
the Preserver ; and the third, M, for the De-
stroyer, or Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva . Benfey,
in his Sanskrit-English Dictionary, defines the
word as "a particle of reminiscence " ; and
this may explain the Brahmanical saying,
that a Brahman beginning or ending the read-
ing of a part of the Veda or Sacred Books,
must always pronounce, to himself, the syllable
AUM ; for unless that syllable precede, his
learning will slip away from him, and unless
it follow, nothing will be long retained . An
old passage in the Parana says, "All the rites
ordained in the Vedas, the sacrifices to fire,
and all sacred purifications, shall pass away,
but the word AUM shall never pass away, for
it is the symbol of the Lord of all things ."
The word has been indifferently spelled, O'M,
AOM, and AUM ; but the last is evidently the
most proper, as the second letter is 00 = U
in the Sanskrit alphabet .
Aumont . 	Said to have been the successor
of Molay as Grand Master, and hence called
the Restorer of the Order of the Templars .
There is a tradition, altogether fabulous, how-
ever, which states that he, with seven other
Templars, fled, after the dissolution of the
Order, into Scotland, disguised as Operative
Masons, and there secretly and under another
name founded a new Order ; and to preserve
as much as possible the ancient name of Tem-
plars, as well as to retain the remembrance
of the clothing of Masons, in which disguise
they had fled, they chose the name of Free-
masons, and thus founded Freemasonry .
The society thus formed, instead of conquering
or rebuilding the Temple of Jerusalem, was to
erect symbolical temples. This is one of the
forms of the Templar theory of the origin of
Freemasonry .
Aurora . In Hebrew the light is called Aur,
and in its dual capacity Aurim . 	Hence Urim,
lights-as, 	Thme, 	Thummim 	perfections .
Ra is the sun, the symbolic god of the Egyp-
tians, and Ouro, royalty . 	Hence we have
Aur, Ouro, Ra, which is the double symbolic
capacity of "Light ." 	Referring to the Urim
and Thummim, Re is physical and intellec-
tual light, while Thme is the divinity of truth
and justice .
Aurora is the color of the baldrio worn by
AUSTRIA
the brethren in the Sixteenth De 	of the
Scottish Rite, which in the legend is
ee said to
have been presented by King Darius to the
captive Zerubbabel on presentation of his
liberty, and that of all his people, who had
been slaves in Babylon for seventy years .
Auserwahlten . 	German for Elu or Elect .
Austin . 	See Saint Augustine .
Australasia . 	The first Masonic Lodge
in this region was held in 1803 at Sydney,
but was suppressed by the Governor, and it
was not until the year 1820 that the parent
Lodge of Australasia was warranted to meet
at Sydney by the Grand Lodge of Ireland ; it
is now No . 1 on the New South Wales register
and named the "Australian Social Mother
Lodge ." After that many Lodges were war-
ranted under the three Constitutions of Eng-
land, Scotland and Ireland, out of which in
course of time no less than six independent
Grand Lodges have been formed, viz ., South
Australia (founded in 1884), New South Wales
(1888), Victoria (1889), Tasmania (1890),
New Zealand (1890), and Western Australia
(1900) . 	[E . L . H .1
Austria . 	Freemasonry was introduced
into Austria in 1742, by the establishment at
Vienna of the Lodge of the Three Cannons .
But it was broken up by the government in
the following year, and thirty of its members
were imprisoned for having met in contempt
of the authorities . Maria Theresa was an
enemy of the Institution, and prohibited it in
1764 . 	Lodges, however, continued to meet
secretly in Vienna and Prague . In 1780,
Joseph II . ascended the throne, and under his
liberal administration Freemasonry, if not
actually encouraged, was at least tolerated,
and many new Lodges were established in
Austria, Hungary, Bohemia, and Tram l-
vania, under the authority of the Grand Lodge
of Germany, in Berlin . Delegates from these
Lodges met at Vienna in 1784, and organized
the Grand Lodge of Austria, electing the
Count of Dietrichstein, Grand Master . The
attempt of the Grand Lodge at Berlin to make
this a Provincial Grand Lodge was successful
for only a short time, and in 1785 the Grand
Lodge of Austria again proclaimed its inde-
pendence .
During the reign of Joseph II ., Austrian
Masonry was prosperous . Notwithstanding
the efforts of its enemies, the monarch could
never be persuaded to prohibit it . But in
1785 he was induced to issue instructions b
which the number of the Lodges was reduce
so that not more than three were permitted to
exist in each city ; and he ordered that a list
of the members and a note of the times of
meeting of each Lodge should be annually de-
livered to the magistrates .
Joseph died in 1790, and Leopold II . ex-
pressed himself as not unfriendly to the Fra-
ternity, but his successor in 1792, Francis II .,
yielded to the machinations of the anti-Ma-
sons, and dissolved the Lodges . In 1801 he
issued a decree which forbade the employ-
ment of anyone in the public service who was
attached to any secret society . Masonry is

AUTHENTIC
in operation in Austria, as it is in most non-
Masonic countries, but not in any public form
as in other countries . The Catholics do not
so persistently persecute it as they once did
through royal sanction .
Authentic . Formerly, in the science of
Diplomatics, ancient manuscripts were
termed authentic when they were originals,
and in opposition to copies . But in modern
times the acceptation of the word has been
enlarged, and it is now applied to instruments
which, although they may be copies, bear the
evidence of having been executed by proper
authority . So of the old records of Masonry,
the originals of many have been lost, or at
least have not yet been found . Yet the cop-
ies, if they can be traced to unsuspected
sources within the body of the Craft and show
the internal marks of historical accuracy, are
to be reckoned as authentic . But if their
origin is altogether unknown, and their state-
ments or style conflict with the known char-
acter of the Order at their assumed date, their
authenticity is to be doubted or denied .
Authenticity of the Scriptures . A be-
lief in the authenticity of the Scriptures of the
Old and New Testament as a religious quali-
fication of initiation does not constitute one
of the laws of Masonry, for such a regulation
would destroy the universality of the Institu-
tion, and under its action none but Christians
could become eligible for admission . But in
1856 the Grand Lodge of Ohio declared "that
a distinct avowal of a belief in the Divine au-
thorit of the Holy Scriptures should be re-
q of every one who is admitted to the
privileges of Masonry, and that a denial of
the same is an offence against the Institution,
calling for exemplary discipline ." It is hardly
necessary to say that the enunciation of this
principle met with the almost universal con-
demnation of the Grand Lodges and Masonic
jurists of this country . The Grand Lodge of
Ohio subsequently re aled the r ulation .
In 1857, the Grand Loge of Texas opted a
similar resolution ; but the general sense of
the Fraternity has rejected sII religious tests
except a belief in God .
Autopsy . (Greek, a"fa, a seeing with,
one's own eyes .) The complete communica-
tion of the secrets in the Ancient Mysteries,
when the aspirant was admitted into the sa-
cellum, or most sacred place, and was invested
by the hierophant with all the aporrheta, or
sacred things which constituted the perfect
knowledge of the initiate . A similar cere-
mony in Freemasonry is called the Rite of
Intrusting . (See Mysteries .)
Auxiliary Degrees . According to Oliver
(Landm .t ii ., 345), the Supreme Council of
France, m addition to the thirty-three regular
degrees of the Rite, confers six others, which
he calls "Auxiliary Degrees ." They are, 1 .
Btu de Perignan . 2 . Petit Architg .cte . 3 .
Grand Architectee or Compagnon Ecossais .
4 . Maitre Ecossais . 5 . Knight of the East .
6 . Knight Rose Croix .
Avenue . Forming avenue is a ceremony
sometimes practised in the lower degrees,
AZAZEL 	$7
but more generally in the higher ones, on cer-
tain occasions of paying honors to superior
officers . The brethren form in two ranks
facing each other . If the degree is one in
which swords are used, these are drawn and
elevated, being crossed each with the oppo-
site sword . The swords thus crossed consti-
tute what is called "the arch of steel ." The
person to whom honor is to be paid passes
between the opposite ranks and under the arch
of steel .
Avignon, Illuminati of . (Illumines
d'Avignon .) A rite instituted by Pernetti at
Avignon, in France, in 1770, and transferred
in the year 1778 to Montpellier, under the
name of the Academy of True Masons . The
Academy of Avignon consisted of only four
degrees, the three of syrpbolic or St . John's
Masonry, and a fourth called the True Mason,
which was made up of instructions, Hermetical
and Swedenborgian . (See Pernetti .)
Avouehment . See Vouching .
Award . In law, the judgment pronounced
by one or more arbitrators, at the request of
two parties who are at variance . "If any
complaint be brought," say the Charges pub-
lished by Anderson, "the brother found guilty
shall stand to the award and determination
of the Lodge ." (Constitutions, ed . 1723, p .
54 .)
Ayes and Noes . It is not according to
Masonic usage to call for the ayes and noes on
any question pending before a Lodge . By a
show of hands is the old and usual custom .
Aynon . Aynon, Agnon, Ajuon, and Dyon
are all used in the old manuscript Constitu-
tions for one whom they call the son of the
King of Tyre, but it is evidently meant for
Hiram Abif . Each of these words is most
probably a corruption of the Hebrew Adon or
Lord so that the reference would clearly be
to Adon Hiram or Adoniram, with whom
Hiram was often confounded ; a confusion to
be found in later times in the Adonbiramite
Rite .
Azarlah . The old French rituals have
Azarias . A name in the high degrees signify-
ing Helped of God .
Azazel . "Scapegoat," the "demon of dry
places ." Translated by others to be the fallen
angel mentioned in the Book of Enoch, and
identical with Sammael, the Angel of Death .
Symmachus says, " the goat that departs " ;
Josephus, "the averter of ills," "caper emis-
sarius ."
Two he-goats, in all respects alike and equal,
were brought forward for the day of atone-
ment . The urn was shaken and two lots
cast ; one was "For the Name," and the
other "For Azazel ." A scarlet tongue-shaped
piece of wood was twisted on the head of the
goat to be sent away, and he was placed be-
fore the gate and delivered to his conductor .
The high priest, placing his two hands on the
goat, made confession for the people, and pro-
nounced THE NAME clearly, which the people
hearing, they knelt and worshiped, and fell
on their faces and said, "Blessed be the Name .
The Honor of His kingdom forever and ever ."

88 	AZRAEL
The goat was then led forth to the mountain-
side and rolled down to death .
Azrael . 	(Heb ., help of God .) In the Jew-
ish and the Mohammedan mythology, the
name of the angel who watches over the dying
and separates the soul from the body . Prior
to the intercession of Mohammed, Azrael in-
flicted the death-penalty visibly, by striking
down before the eyes of the living those whose
B . (n, Beth .) A labial consonant stand-
ing second in most alphabets, and in the
Hebrew or Phoenician signifies house, prob-
ably from its form of a tent or house, thus :
n
and finally the Hebrew n, having the nu-
merical value two . 	When united with the
leading letter of the alphabet, n$, it signifies
Ab, Father, Master, or the one in authority,
as applied to Hiram the Architect . This is
the root of Baal . 	The Hebrew name of the
Deity connected with this letter is 11t1D, Bak-
hur .
Baal . 	Hebrew, ~y1 He was the chief
divinity among the Phcenicians, the Canaan-
ites and the Babylonians . The word signifies
in Hebrew lord or master . 	It was among the
Orientalists a comprehensive term, denoting
divinity of any kind without reference to class
or to sex . The Sabaists understood Baal as
the sun, and Baalim, in the plural, were the
sun, moon, and stars, "the host of heaven ."
Whenever the Israelites made one of their
almost periodical deflections to idolatry, Baal
seems to have been the favorite idol to whose
worship they addicted themselves . Hence
he became the especial object of denunciation
with the prophets . Thus, in 1 Kings (xviii .),
we see Elija showing, by practical demon-
stration, the difference between Baal and Je-
hovah . The idolaters, at his instigation,
called on Baal, as their sun-god, to light the
sacrificial fire, from morning until noon, be-
cause at noon he had acquired his greatest
intensity . And after noon no fire having
been kindled on the altar, they began to cry
aloud, and to cut themselves in token of mor-
tification, because as the sun descended there
was no hope of his help . But Elijah, depend-
ing on Jehovah, made his sacrifice toward
sunset, to show the greatest contrast between
Baal and the true God . And when the people
B
BABEL
time for death was come . (See Henry W .
Longfellow's exquisite poem Azrael .)
Aztec Writings . 	The key to the Aztec
writings, it is alleged, has been discovered by
Rev . Father Damago Soto, of Concordia,Vera
Cruz .
Azure . The clear, blue color of the sky .
Cerulean . The appropriate color of the sym-
bolic degrees sometimes termed Blue Degrees .
saw the fire come down and consume the offer-
ing, they acknowledged the weakness of their
idol, and falling on their faces cried out, Jeho-
vah hu hahelohim-" Jehovah, he is the God ."
And Hosea afterward promises the people
that they shall abandon their idolatry, and
that he would take away from them the She-
moth hahbaalim, the names of the Baalim, so
that they should be no more remembered by
their names, and the people should in that
day "know Jehovah ."
Hence we see that there was an evident an-
tagonism in the orthodox Hebrew mind be-
tween Jehovah and Baal . The latter was,
however, worshiped by the Jews, whenever
they became heterodox, and by all the Oriental
or Shemitic nations as a supreme divinity,
representing the sun in some of his modifica-
tions as the ruler of the day . In Tyre, Baal
was the sun, and Ashtaroth, the moon . Baal-
peor, the lord of priapism, was the sun repre-
sented as the generative principle of nature,
and identical with the phallus of other relig-
ions . Baal-gad was the lord of the multi-
tude (of stars) that is, the sun as the chief of
the heavenly host . In brief, Baal seems to
have been wherever his cultus was established,
a development or form of the old sun worship .
Babel . 	In Hebrew, ~7] • which the writer
of Genesis connects with 5 i7Z, balal, "to con-
found," in reference to the confusion of
tongues ; but the true derivation is probably
from BAB-EL, the "gate of El" or the "gate of
God," because perhaps a temple was the first
building raised by the primitive nomads .
It is the name of that celebrated tower at-
tempted to be built on the plains of Shinar,
A .M . 1775, about one hundred and forty
years . after the deluge which tower, Scrip-
ture nforms us, was c6troyed by a special
interposition of the Almighty . The Noa-
chite Masons date the commencement of
their Order from this destruction, and much
traditionary information on this subject is pre-
served in the degree of "Patriarch Noachite ."
At Babel, Oliver says that what has been
called Spurious Freemasonry took its origin .
That is to say, the people there abandoned the
worship of the true God, and by their disper-
sion lost all knowledge of his existence, and of

BABYLON
the principles of truth upon which Masonry
is founded . Hence it is that the rituals speak
of the lofty tower of Babel as the place where
language was confounded and Masonry lost .
This is the theory first advanced by Ander-
son in his Constitutions, and subsequently
developed more extensively by Dr . Oliver in
all his works, but especially in his Landmarks .
As history, the doctrine is of no value, for it
wants the element of authenticity . But in a
symbolic point of view it is highly suggestive .
If the tower of Babel represents the profane
world of ignorance and darkness, and the
threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite is the
symbol of Freemasonry, because the Solo-
monic Temple, of which it was the site, is the
prototype of the spiritual temple which Ma-
sons are erecting, then we can readily under-
stand how Masonry and the true use of lan-
guage is lost in one and recovered in the other,
and how the progress of the candidate in his
initiation may properly be compared to the
progress of truth from the confusion and ig-
norance of the Babel builders to the perfection
and illumination of the temple builders, which
temple builders all Freemasons are . And
so, when in the ritual the neophyte, being asked
"whence he comes and whither is he travel-
ling," replies, "from the lofty tower of Babel,
where language was confounded and Masonry
lost, to the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebu-
site, where language was restored and Ma-
sonry found," the questions and answers
become intelligible from this symbolic point
of view . 	(See Ornan .)
Babylon . The ancient capital of Chaldea,
situated on both sides of the Euphrates, and
once the most magnificent city of the ancient
world . It was here that, upon the destruction
of Solomon's Temple by Nebuchadnezzar in
the year of the world 3394, the Jews of the
tribes of Judah and Benjamin, who were the
inhabitants of Jerusalem, were conveyed and
detained in captivity for seventy-two years,
until Cyrus, King of Persia, issued a decree for
restoring them, and permitting them to re-
build their temple, under the superintendence
of Zerubbabel, the Prince of the Captivity,
and with the assistance of Joshua the High
Priest and Haggai the Scribe .
Babylon the Great, as the prophet Daniel
calls it, was situated four hundred and seventy-
five miles in a nearly due east direction from
Jerusalem . It stood in the midst of a large
and fertile plain on each side of the river
Euphrates, which ran through it from north to
south . It was surrounded with walls which
were eighty-seven feet thick, three hundred
and fifty in height, and sixty miles in compass .
These were all built of large bricks cemented
together with bitumen . Exterior to the walls
was a wide and deep trench lined with the
same material . Twenty-five gates on each
side, made of solid brass, gave admission to
the city . From each of these gates proceeded
a wide street fifteen miles in length, and the
whole was separated by means of other smaller
divisions, and contained six hundred and sev-
enty-six squares, each of which was two miles
BACON 	89
and a quarter in circumference . Two hun-
dred and fifty towers placed upon the walls
afforded the means of additional strength
and protection . Within this immense circuit
were to be found palaces and temples and
other edifices of the utmost magnificence,
which have caused the wealth, the luxury, and
splendor of Babylon to become the favorite
theme of the historians of antiquity, and
which compelled the prophet Isaiah, even
while denouncing its downfall, to speak of it
as "the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the
Chaldees' excellency ."
Babylon, which, at the time of the destruc-
tion of the Temple of Jerusalem, constituted a
part of the Chaldean empire, was subsequently
taken, s .c . 538, after a siege of two years, by
Cyrus, King of Persia .
Babylon, Red Cross of . 	Another name
for the degree of Babylonish Pass, which see .
Babylonish Captivity . 	See Captivity .
Babylonish Pass . A degree given in
Scotland by the authority of the Grand Royal
Arch Chapter . It is also called the Red Cross
of Babylon, and is almost identical with the
Companion of the Red Cross conferred in
Commanderies of Knights Templar in America
as a preparatory degree .
Back . 	Freemasonry, borrowing its sym-
bols from every source, has not neglected to
make a selection of certain parts of the human
body . 	From the back an important lesson
is derived, which is fittingly developed in the
Third Degree . Hence, in reference to this
symbolism, Oliver says : "It is a duty incum-
bent on every Mason to support a brother's
character in his absence equally as though he
were present ; not to revile him behind his back,
nor suffer it to be done by others, without
using every necessary attempt to prevent it ."
And Hutchinson, referring to the same sym-
bolic ceremony, says : "The most material
part of that brotherly love which should sub-
sist among us Masons is that of speaking well
of each other to the world ; more especially it
is expected of every member of this Fraternity
that he should not traduce his brother .
Calumny and slander are detestable crimes
against society . Nothing can be viler than to
traduce a man behind his back ; it is like the
villainy of an assassin who has not virtue
enough to give his adversary the means of
self-defence, but, lurking in darkness, stabs
him whilst he is unarmed and unsuspicious of
an enemy ." 	(Spirit of Masonry, p . 205 .)
(See Points of Fellowship .)
Bacon, Francis . 	Baron of Verulam, com-
monly called Lord Bacon . Nicolai thinks
that a great impulse was exercised upon the
early history of Freemasonry by the New
Atlantis of Lord Bacon . In this learned ro-
mance Bacon supposes that a vessel lands on
an unknown island, called Bensalem, over
which a certain King Solomon reigned in days
of yore . This king had a large establishment,
which was called the House of Solomon, or
the college of the workmen of six days, namely,
the days of the creation . He afterward de-
scribes the immense apparatus which was

00 	BACON
there emplo in physical researches . There
were, says e, deep grottoes and towers for
the successful observation of certain phenom-
ena of nature ; artificial mineral waters ; large
buildings, in which meteors, the wind, thunder,
and rain were imitated ; extensive botanic gar-
dens ; entire fields, in which all kinds of
animals were collected, for the study of their
instincts and habits ; houses filled with all the
wonders of nature and art ; a great number of
learned men, each of whom, in his own country,
had the direction of these things ; they made
journeys and observations ; they wrote, they
collected, they determined results, and de-
liberated together as to what was proper to
be published and what concealed .
This romance became at once very popular,
and everybody's attention was attracted by
the allegory of the House of Solomon . But
it also contributed to spread Bacon's views on
experimental knowledge, and led afterward
to the institution of the Royal Society, to
which Nicolai attributes a common object
with that of the Society of Freemasons,
established he says, about the same time, the
difference being only that one was esoteric
and the other exoteric in its instructions .
But the more immediate effect of the romance
of Bacon was the institution of the Society
of Astrologers, of which Elias Ashmole was a
leading member . Of this society Nicolai, in
his work on the Origin and History of Rosi-
crucianism and Freemasonry, says :
"Its object was to build the House of
Solomon, of the New Atlantis, in the literal
sense, but the establishment was to remain as
secret as the island of Bensalem-that is to
say, they were to be engaged in the study of
nature-but the instruction of its principles
was to remain in the society in an esoteric
form . These philosophers presented their
idea in a strictly allegorical method . First,
there were the ancient columns of Hermes, by
which lamblichus pretended that he had en-
lightened all the doubts of Porphyry . You
then mounted, by several steps, to a chequered
floor, divided into four regions, to denote the
four superior sciences ; after which came the
types of the six days' work, which expressed
the object of the society, and which were the
same as those found on an engraved stone in
my possession . The sense of all which was
this : God created the world, and preserves it
by fixed principles, full of wisdom- he who
seeks to know these principles-tLat is to
say the interior of nature-approximates to
God, and he who thus approximates to God
obtains from his grace the power of command-
ing nature ."
This society, he adds met at Masons' Hall
in Basinghall Street, because many of its
members were also members of the Masons'
Company, into which they all afterward
entered and assumed the name of Free and
Accepted Masons, and thus he traces the origin
of the Order to the New Atlantis and the
House of Solomon of Lord Bacon . It is only
a theory, but it seems to throw some light
on that long process of incubation which
BACULUS
terminated at last, in 1717, in the production
of the Grand Lodge of Fnglgnd . 	The con-
nection of Ashmole with the Masons is a
singular one, and has led to some controversy .
The views of Nicolai, if not altogether correct,
may suggest the possibility of an explanation .
Certain it is that the eminent astrologers of
England, as we learn from Ashmole's Diary,
were on terms of intimacy with the Masons
in the seventeenth century, and that many
Fellows of the Royal Society were also prom-
inent members of the early Grand Lodge of
England which was established in 1717 .
Bacon, Roger . 	An English monk who
made wonderful discoveries in many sciences .
He was born in Ilchester in 1214, educated at
Oxford and Paris, and entered the Franciscan
Order in his twenty-fifth year . He explored
the secrets of nature, and made many discov-
eries, the application of which was looked
upon as magic . He denounced the ignorance
and immorality of the clergy, resulting in
accusations, through revenge, and final im-
prisonment . He was noted as a Rosicrucian .
Died in 1292 .
Baculus . 	The staff of office borne by the
Grand Master of the Templars . In ecclesi-
ology, baculus is the name given to the
pastoral staff carried by a bishop or an abbot
as the ensign of his dignity and authority .
In pure Latinity, baculus means a long stick
or staff, which was commonly carried by
travelers, by shepherds, or by infirm and
aged persons, and afterward from affecta-
tion, by the Greek philosophers In early
times, this staff, made a little longer, was
carried by kings and persons in authority, as
a mark of distinction, and was thus the origin
of the royal scepter . The Christian church,
borrowing many of its usages from antiquity,
and alluding also, it is said, to the sacerdotal
power which Christ conferred when he sent
the apostles to preach, commanding them to
take with them staves, adopted the pastoral
staff, to be borne by a bishop, as symbolical
of his power to inflict pastoral correction ; and
Durandus says, "By the pastoral staff is like-
wise understood the authority of doctrine .
For by it the infirm are supported, the waver-
ing are confirmed, those going astray are
drawn to repentance ." Catalin also says
that "the baculus, or episcopal staff is an
ensign not only of honor, but also of dignity,
power, and pastoral jurisdiction ."
Honorius, a writer of the twelfth century,
in his treatise De Gemma Animas, gives to
this pastoral staff the names both of baculus
and virga . 	Thus he says, "Bishops bear the
staff (baculum), that by their teaching they
may strengthen the weak in their faith ; and
they carry the rod (virgam), that by their power
they may correct the unruly ." And this is
strikingly similar to the language used by St .
Bernard in the Rule which he drew up for the
government of the Templars . In Artxviii
he says, "The Master ought to hold the- stag
and the rod (baculum et virgam) in his hand,
that is to say, the staff (baculum), that he may
support the infirmities of the weak, and the

BACULUS
rod (virgam), that he may with the seal of reo .
titude strike down the vices of delinquents ."
The transmission of episcopal ensigns from
bishops to the heads of ecclesiastical associa .
tions was not difficult in the Middle Ages ; and
hence it afterward became one of the insignia
of abbots, and the heads of confraternities con-
nected with the Church, as a token of the pos-
session of powers of ecclesiastical jurisdiction .
Now, as the Pa p al bull, Omne datum Op-
timum, invested the Grand Master of the
Templars with almost episcopal jurisdiction
over the priests of his Order, he bore the
baculus, or pastoral staff, as a mark of that
jurisdiction, and thus it became a part of the
Grand Master's insignia of office .
The baculus of the bishop, the abbot, and
the confraternities was not precisely the same
in form . The earliest episcopal staff termi-
nated in a globular knob, or a tau cross . This
was, however, soon re p laced by the simp le-
curved termination, which resembles and is
called a crook, in allusion to that used by
shepherds to draw back and recall the sheep of
their flock which have gone astray, thus sym-
bolizing the expression of Christ, "I am the
good Shepherd, and know my sheep, and am
known of mine ."
The baculus of the abbot does not differ in
form from that of a bishop, but as the bishop
carries the curved part of his staff pointin g
forward, to show the extent of his episcopal
jurisdiction, so the abbot carries his pointing
backward, to signify that his authority is
limited to his monastery .
The baculi, or staves of the confraternities,
were surmounted by small tabernacles, with
images or emblems, on a sort of carved cap,
having reference to the particular guild or
confraternity by whom they were borne .
The baculus of the Knights Templars, which
was borne by the Grand Master as the ensign
of his office, in allusion to his quasi-episcopal
jurisdiction, is described and delineated in
Muster, Burnes, Addison, and all the other
authorities, as a staff, on the top of which is
an octagonal figure, surmounted with a cross
patee. The cross, of course, refers to the
Christian character of the Order, and the oc-
tagon alludes, it is said, to the eight beatitudes
of our Savior in his Sermon on the Mount .
The pastoral staff is variously designated, by
ecclesiastical writers, as virga, frules, cambutta,
crocia, and pedum . 	From crocia, whose root
is the Latin crux, and the Italian croce, a cross,
we get the English crozier .
Pedum, another name of the baculus, signi-
fies, in pure Latinity, a shepherd's crook, and
thus strictly carries out the symbolic idea of
a pastoral charge . Hence, looking to the
pastoral jurisdiction of the Grand Master of
the Templars, his staff of office is described
under the title of "pedum magistrate seu
patriarchate," that is, a "magisterial or patri-
archal staff," in the Statuta Commilitonum
Ordinis Templi ; or the "Statutes of the
Fellow-soldiers of the Order of the Temple,"
as apart of the investiture of the Grand Mas-
ter, in the following words :
BADGE 	91
"Pedum magistrate, see paffardlale, au-
reum, in eacumins ctvus crux Ordtnis super
orbem exaltatur " ; 	that is, "A magisterial or
patriarchal staff of gold, on the top of which
is a cross of the Order, surmounting an orb or
globe ." 	(Slat ., xxviii ., art, 358 .) But of all
these names, baculus is the one more com-
monly used by writers to designate the
Templar pastoral staff .
In the year 1859 this staff of office was first
adopted at Chicago by the Templars of the
United States, during the Grand Mastership
of Sir William B . Hubbard . But, unfor-
tunately, at that time it received the name of
abacus, a misnomer, which has continued to
the present day, on the authority of a literary
blunder of Sir Walter Scott, so that it has
fallen to the lot of American Masons to per-
petuate, in the use of this word, an error of
the great novelist, resulting from his too care-	less writing, at which he would himself have
been the first to smile, had his attention been
called to it .
Abacus, in mathematics, denotes an instru-
ment or table used for calculation, and in
architecture an ornamental part of a column ;
but it nowhere, in English or Latin, or any
known language, signifies any kind of a staff .
Sir Walter Scott, who undoubtedly was
thinking of baculus, in the hurry of the mo-
ment and a not improbable confusion of words
and thoughts, wrote abacus, when, in his novel
of Ivanhoe, he describes the Grand Master
Lucas Beaumanoir, as bearing in his hand
" that singular abacus, or staff of office,"
committed a very gross, but not very uncom-
mon, literary blunder, of a kind that is quite
familiar to those who are conversant with the
results of rapid composition, where the writer
often thinks of one word and writes another .
Baden . 	In 1778 the Lodge "Karl of
Unity " was established in Mannheim, which
at that time belonged to Bavaria . In 1785 an
electoral decree was issued prohibiting all
secret meetings in the Bavarian Palatinate and
the Lodge was closed . In 1803 Mannheim
was transferred to the Grand Duchy of Baden,
and in 1805 the Lodge was reopened, and in
the following year accepted a warrant from
the Grand Orient of France and took the name
of "Karl of Concord ." Then it converted
itself into the Grand Orient of Baden and was
acknowledged as such by the Grand Orient
of France in 1807 .
Lodges were established at Bruchsal,
Heidelberg, and Mannheim, and the Grand
Orient of Baden ruled over them until 1813,
when all secret societies were again prohibited,
and it was not until 1846 that Masonic ac-
tivity recommenced in Baden, when the Lodge
"Karl of Concord " was awakened .
There is no longer a Grand Orient of Baden,
but the Lodges in the Duchy, of which several
have been established, are under the Grand
National Mother-Lodge "Zu den drei Welt-
kugein " (Of the three Globes) in Berlin .
[E . L . H .]
Badge . 	A mark, sign, token, or thing,
says Webster, by which a person is distin-

92 	BADGE
guished in a particular place or employment,
and designating his relation to a person or to a
particular occupation . It is in heraldry the
same thing as a cognizance : thus the followers
and retainers of the house of I'ercy wore a
silver crescent as a badge of their connection
with that family ; the white lion borne on the
left arm was the badge of the house of Howard,
Earl of Surrey ; the red rose that of the house
of Lancaster ; and the white rose, of York .
So the apron, formed of white lambskin, is
worn by the Freemason as a badge of his
profession and a token of his connection with
the Fraternity . (See Apron .)
Badge of a Mason . 	The lambskin apron
is so called . 	(See Apron .)
Badge, Royal Arch . 	The Royal Arch
badge is the triple tau, which see .
Bafomet . 	See Baphomet .
Bag . In the early days of the Grand Lodge
of England the Secretary used to carry a Bag
in processions - thus in the procession round
the tables at tie Grand Feast of 1724 we find
" Secretary Cowper with the Bag " ( Consti-
tutions, ed . 1738, p . 117) ; and in 1729 Lord
Kingston, the Grand Master, provided at his
own cost "a fine Velvet Bag for the Secre-
tary," besides his bade of "Two golden Pens
a-cross on his Breast' (ibid . p . 124) ; and in
the Procession of March from St . James'
Square to Merchant Taylor's Hall on Janu-
ary 29, 1730, there came "The Secretary
alone with his Badge and Bag, clothed, in
a Chariot ." (Ibid ., p . 125 .)
This practise continued throughout the
Eighteenth century, for at the dedication of
Freemasons' Hall in London in 1776 we find
in the procession "Grand Secretary with the
bag ." (Constitutions, 1784, p . 318 .) But at the
union of the two rival Grand Lodges in 1813
the custom was changed, for in the order of
procession at public ceremonies laid down in
the Constitutions of 1815, we find "Grand
Secretary with book of constitutions on a
cushion " and "Grand Registrar with his
bag " ; and the Grand Registrar of England
still carries on ceremonial occasions a bag
with the arms of the Grand Lodge embroid-
ered on it . 	[E . L . H .)
Bagulkal . 	A significant word in the high
degrees . Lenning says it is a corruption of
the HebrewBegoal-kol, "all is revealed ." Pike
says, Bagulkol, with a similar reference to a
revelation . Rockwell gives in his MS ., Bekal-
kel, without any meaning . The old rituals in-
terpret it as signifying "the faithful guardian
of the sacred ark," a derivation clearly fanciful .
Bahrdt, Karl Friederich . A German
Doctor of Theology, who was born, in 1741, at
Bischofswerda, and died in 1792 . He is
described by one of his biographers as being
"notorious alike for his bold infidelit and for
his evil life ." We know not why Tory and
Lenning have given his name a place in their
vocabularies, as his literary labors bore no
relation to Freemasonry, except inasmuch as
that he was a Mason, and that in 1787, with
several other Masons, he founded at Halle
a secret society called the "German Union,"
BALDRICK
or the "Two and Twenty," in reference to the
original number of its members . The object
of this society was said to be the enlighten-
ment of mankind . It was dissolved in 1790,
by the imprisonment of its founder for having
written a libel against the Prussian Minister
Woellner . It is incorrect to call this system
of degree a Masonic Rite . (See German Union .)
Baldachin . 	In architecture, a canopy
supported by pillars over an insulated altar .
In Masonry, it has been applied b7 some
writers to the canopy over the Master a chair .
The German Masons give this name to the
covering of the Lodge, and reckon it therefore
among the symbols .
Balder or Baldur . The ancient Scandi-
navian or older German divinity . . The hero
of one of the most beautiful and interesting
of the myths of the Edda ; the second son of
Odin an 	Frigga, and the husband of the
maiden Nanna . 	In brief, the myth recites
that Balder dreamed that his life was threat-
ened which being told to the gods a council
was held by them to secure his safety . The
mother proceeded to demand and receive
from every inanimate thing, iron and all
metals, fire and water, stones, earth, plants,
beasts birds, reptiles, poisons, and diseases,
that they 	reptiles, injure Balder . Balder
then became the subject of sport with the
gods, who wrestled, cast darts, and in innumer-
able ways playfully tested his invulnerability .
This finally displeased the mischievous, cun-
ning Loki the Spirit of Evil, who, in the form
of an oki woman, sought out the mother,
Frigga, and ascertained from her that there
had been excepted or omitted from the oath
the little shrub Mistletoe . In haste Loki
carried some of this shrub to the assembly of
the gods, and gave to the blind Hoder, the
god of war, selected slips, and directing his
aim, Balder fell pierced to the heart .
Sorrow among the gods was unutterable,
and Frigga inquired who, to win her favor,
would journey to Hades and obtain from the
goddess Hel the release of Balder . The
heroic Helmod or Hermoder, son of Odin,
offered to undertake the journey . Hel con-
sented to permit the return if all things ani-
mate and inanimate should weep for Balder .
All living beings and all things wept, save
the witch or giantess Thock (the step-
daughter of Loki), who refused to sympathize
in the general mourning . Balder was there-
fore obliged to linger in the kingdom of Hel
until the end of the world .
Baldrlck . A portion of military dress,
being a scarf passing from the shoulder over
the breast to the hip 	In the dress regula-
tions of the Grand Encampment of Knights
Templar of the United States, adopted in
1862, it is called a "scarf," and is thus
described : "Five inches wide in the whole of
white bordered with black, one inch on either
side, a strip of navy lace one-fourth of an
inch wide at the inner edge of the black . On
the front centre of the scarf, a metal star of
nine points, in allusion to the nine founders of
the Temple Order, inclosing the Passion Cross,

BALDWYN
surrounded by the Latin motto, In hoc signo
vines ; the star to be three and three-quarter
inches in diameter . The scarf to be worn
from the right shoulder to the left hip, with
the ends extending six inches below the point
of intersection ."
Baldwyn II . 	The successor of Godfrey of
Bouillon as King of Jerusalem . In his reign
the Order of Knights Templar was instituted,
to whom he granted a place of habitation
within the sacred enclosure of the Temple on
Mount Moriah . He bestowed on the Order
other marks of favor, and, as its patron ; his
name has been retained in grateful remem-
brance, and often adopted as a name of Com-
manderies of Masonic Templars .
Baldwyn Encampment . There is at Bris-
tol in England a famous Preceptory of Knights
Templar, called the "Baldwyn," which claims
to have existed from time immemorial, and
of which no one has yet been able to discover
the origin . This, together with the Chapter
of Knights Ross ; Crucis, is the continuation
of the old Baldwyn Encampment, the name
being derived from the Crusader, King of
Jerusalem .
The earliest record preserved by this Pre-
ceptory is an authentic and important docu-
ment dated December 20, 1780, and headed
"In the name of the Grand Architect of
the Universe .
"The Supreme Grand and Royal Encamp-
ment of the Order of Knights Templars of St .
John of Jerusalem, Knights Hospitallers and
Knights of Malta, &c ., &c .," and commenc-
ing "Whereas by Charter of Compact our
Encampment is constituted the Supreme
Grand and Royal Encampment of this Noble
Order with full Power when Assembled to
issue, publish and make known to all our
loving Knights Companions whatever may
contribute to their knowledge not inconsistent
with its general Laws . Also to constitute
and appoint any Officer or Officers to make
and ordain such laws as from time to time
may appear necessary to promote the Honor
of our Noble Order in general and the more
perfect government of our Supreme degree in
particular . 	We therefore the MOST EMI-
NENT GRAND MASTER The Grand Mas-
ter of the Order, the Grand Master Assistant
General and two Grand Standard Bearers
and Knights Companions for that purpose in
full Encampment Assembled do make known ."
Then follow twenty Statutes or Regula-
tions for the government of the Order and
the document ends with "Done at our dastle
in Bristol 20th day of December 1780 ."
It is not clear who were the parties to this
"Compact," but it is thought probable that
it was the result of an agreement between the
Bristol Encampment and another ancient
body at Bath (the Camp of Antiquity) to es-
tablish a supreme direction of the Order .
However that may be, it is clear that the
Bristol Encampment was erected into a Su-
preme Grand Encampment in 1780 .
The earliest reference to the Knights
Templar as yet discovered occurs in a Bristol
BALKIS 	93
newspaper of January 25, 1772, so it , may
fairly be assumed that the Baldwyn Precep-
tory had been in existence before the date of
the Charter of Compact .
In 1791 the well-known Brother Thomas
Dunckerley, who was Provincial Grand Mas-
ter and Grand Superintendent of the Royal
Arch Masons at Bristol, was requested by the
Knights Templar of that city to be their
Grand Master . He at once introduced great
activity into the Order throughout 'England,
and established the Grand Conclave in London
-the forerunner of the Great Priory .
The "seven degrees " of the Camp of Bald-
wyn at that time probably consisted of the
three of the Craft and that of the Royal Arch
(which were necessary qualifications of all
candidates as set forth in the Charter of Com-
pact), (5) Knights Templar of St . John of
Jerusalem, Palestine, Rhodes and Malta, (6)
Knights Rose Croix of Heredom, (7) Grand
Elected Knights Kadosh .
About the year 1813 the three degrees of
"Nine Elect," "Kilwinning," and "East,
Sword and Eagle" were adopted by the En-
campment . The "Kadosh" having after-
ward discontinued, the five "Royal Orders of
Masonic Knighthood," of which the Encamp-
mentconsisted were : (1) Nine Elect, (2) Kil-
winning, (3) 'East, Sword and Eagle, (4)
Knight Templar, (5) Rose Croix .
For many years the Grand Conclave in
London was in abeyance, but when H .R.H .
the Duke of Sussex, who had been Grand
Master since 1813, died in 1843, it was re-
vived, and attempts were made to induce the
Camp of Baldwyn to submit to its authority,
but without avail, and in 1857 Baldwyn re-
asserted its position as a Supreme Grand and
Royal Encampment, and shortly afterward
issued charters to six subordinate Encamp-
ments . The chief cause of difference with the
London Grand Conclave was the question of
giving up the old custom of working the Rose
Croix Degree within the Camp At last, in
1862, the Baldwyn was enrolled by virtue of a
Charter of Compact "under the Banner of
the Grand Conclave of Masonic Knights
Templar of England and Wales ." It was
arranged that the Baldw n Preceptory (as it
was then called) should take precedence
(with five others "of time immemorial ") of the
other Preceptories ; that it should be consti-
tuted a Provincial Grand Commandery or
Priory of itself ; and should be entitled to con-
fer the degree of Knights of Malta .
In 1881 a "Treaty of Union" was made
with the Supreme Council of the 33°, whereby
the Baldwyn Rose Croix Chapter retained its
"time immemorial " position and was placed
at the head of the list of Chapters . It also
became a "District" under the Supreme
Council of the 33° and is therefore placed
under an "Inspector General" of its own .
(The preceding article is contributed by Bro .
Cecil Powell, joint-author of "Freemasonry in
Bristol " published in 1910 .)
Ball ls . The name given by the Oriental-
ists to the Queen of Sheba, who visited King

94 	BALLOT
Solomon, and of whom they relate a number of
fables . 	(See Sheba, Queen of .)
Ballot . 	In the election of candidates
Lodges have recourse to a ballot of white and
blackballs . Unanimity of choice, in this case,
was originally require one black ball only
being enough to reject a candidate, because as
the Old Regulations say, " The members of a
particular Lodge are the best judges of it ;
and because, if a turbulent member should be
imposed on them, it might spoil their harmony
or hinder the freedom of their communica-
tion, or even break up and disperse the Lodge,
which ought to be"avoided by all true and
faithful ." (Constitutions, 1738, p . 155 .)
"But it was found inconvenient to insist
upon unanimity in several cases : and there-
fore the Grand Masters have allowed the
Lodges to admit a member, if not above three
Ballots are against him ; though some Lodges
desire no such allowance ." 	(Ibid .)
And this is still the rule under the English
Constitution . (Rule 190 .)
In balloting for a candidate for initiation,
every member is expected to vote . No one
cae excused from sharing the responsibility
of a dm ission or rejection except by the unan-
imous consent of the Lodge . Where a member
has himself no personal or acquired knowledge
of the qualifications of the candidate, he is
bound to give faith to the recommendation of
his brethren of the reporting committee, who,
he is to presume, would not make a favorable
report on the petition of an unworthy appli-
cant .
The most correct usage in balloting for can-
didates is as follows :
The committee of investigation having
reported favorably, the Master of the Lodge
directs the Senior Deacon to prepare the bal-
lot-box . The mode in which this is accom-
plished is as follows : The Senior Deacon
takes the ballot-box, and, .opening it, places
all the white and black balls indiscriminately
in one compartment, leaving the other entirely
empty . He then proceeds with the box to the
Junior and Senior Wardens, who satisfy them-
selves by an inspection that no ball has been
left in the compartment in which the votes are
to be deposited . The box in this and the other
instance to be referred to hereafter is pre-
sented to the inferior officer first, and then to
his superior, that the examination and decision
of the former may be substantiated and con-
firmed by the higher authority of the latter .
Let it, indeed, be remembered, that in all such
cases the usage of Masonic circumambulation
is to be observed, and that, therefore, we must
first pass the Junior's station before we can get
to that of the Senior Warden .
These officers having thus satisfied them-
selves that the box is in a proper condition for
the reception of the ballots, it is then placed
upon the altar by the Senior Deacon, who
retires to his seat . The Master then directs
the Secretary to call the roll, which is done
by commencing with the Worshipful Master,
and proceeding through all the officers down
to the youngest member . As a matter of con-
BALLOT
venience, the Secretary generally votes the
last of those in the room, and then, if the Tiler
is a member of the Lodge, he is called in, while
the Junior Deacon tiles for him, and the name
of the applicant having been told him, he is
directed to deposit his ballot, which he does
and then retires .
As the name of each officer and member is
called, he approaches the altar, and having
made the proper Masonic salutation to the
Chair, he deposits his ballot and retires to his
seat . The roll should be called slowly, so that
at no time should there be more than one per-
son present at the box, for the great object of
the ballot being secrecy, no brother should be
permitted so near the member voting as to
distinguish the color of the ball he deposits .
The box is placed on the altar, and the ballot
is deposited with the solemnity of a Masonic
salutation, that the voters may be duly im-
pressed with the sacred and responsible na-
ture of the duty they are called on to dis-
charge . The system of voting thus described,
is, therefore, far better on this account than
that sometimes adopted in Lodges, of handing
round the box for the members to deposit
their ballots from their seats .
The Master having inquired of the Wardens
if all have voted, then orders the Senior Dea-
con to "take charge of the ballot-box ." That
officer accordingly repairs to the altar, and
taking possession of the box, carries it, as be-
fore, to the Junior Warden, who examines the
bali
that t1 'the box is clear
all he South," or, t if
there is one or more black balls, that "the box
is foul in the South ." The Deacon then car-
ries it to the Senior Warden, and afterward
to the Master, who, of course, make the same
report, according to the circumstance, with
the necessary verbal variations of "West "
and "East ."
If the box is clear-that is, if all the ballots
are white the Master then announces that
the applicant has been duly elected, and the
Secretary makes a record of the fact . But if
the box is foul, the Master inspects the num-
ber of black balls ; if he finds only one, he so
states the fact to the Lodge, and orders the
Senior Deacon again to prepare the ballot-box .
Here the same ceremonies are passed through
that have already been described . The balls
are removed into one compartment, the box
is submitted to the inspection of the Wardens,
it is placed upon the altar, the roll is called,
the members advance and deposit their votes
the box is scrutinized and the result declared
by the Wardens and Master . If again one
blackball be found, or if two or more appeared
on the first ballot, the Master announces that
the petition of the applicant has been rejected,
and directs the usual record to be made by the
Secretary and the notification to be given to
the Grand Lodge .
Balloting for membership or affiliation is
subject to the same rules . In both cases
"previous notice, one month before," must be
given to the Lodge, "due inquiry into the rep-
utation and capacity of the candidate " must

BALLOT-BOX
be made and "the unanimous consent of all
the members then present " must be obtained .
Nor can this unanimity be dispensed with in
one case any more than it can in the other . It
is the inherent privilege of every Lodge to
judge of the qualifications of its own members,
"nor is this inherent privilege subject to a dis-
pensation ."
Ballot-Box . 	The box in which the ballots
or little balls used in voting for a candidate
are deposited . It should be divided into two
compartments, one of which is to contain both
black and white balls, from which each mem-
ber selects one, and the other, which is closed
with an aperture, to receive the ball that is to
be deposited . Various methods have been
devised by which secrecy may be secured so
that a voter may select and deposit the ball he
desires without the possibility of its being seen
whether it is black or white . That now most
in use in this country is to have the aperture
so covered by a part of the box as to prevent
the hand from being seen when the ball is de-
posited .
Ballot, Reconsideration of the . See
Reconsideration of the Ballot .
Ballot, Secrecy of the . 	The secrecy of
the ballot is as essential to its perfection as its
unanimity or its independence . If the vote
were to be given viva voce, it is impossible that
the improper influences of fear or interest
should not sometimes be exerted, and timid
members be thus induced to vote contrary to
the dictates of their reason and conscience .
Hence, to secure this secrecy and protect the
purity of choice, it has been wisely' established
as a usage, not only that the vote shall in these
cases be taken by a ballot, but that there shall
be no subsequent discussion of the subject .
Not only has no member a right to inquire
how his fellows have voted, but it is wholly
out of order for him to explain his own vote .
And the reason of this is evident . If one
member has a right to rise in his place and an-
nounce that he deposited a white ball, then
every other member has the same right ; and
in a Lodge of twenty members, where an ap-
plication has been rejected by one black ball,
if nineteen members state that they did not
deposit it, the inference is clear that the
twentieth Brother has done so, and thus the
secrecy of the ballot is at once destroyed . The
rejection having been announced from the
Chair the Lodge should at once proceed to
other business, and it is the sacred duty of the
presiding officer peremptorily and at once to
check any rising discussion on the subject .
Nothing must be done to impair the inviolable
secrecy of the ballot .
Ballot, Unanimity of the . 	Unanimity
in the choice of candidates is considered so
essential to the welfare of the Fraternity, that
the Old Regulations have expressly provided
for its preservation in the following words :
"But no man can be entered a Brother in
any particular Lodge, or admitted to be a
member thereof, without the unanimous con-
sent of all the members of that Lodge then
present when the candidate is proposed, and
BALTIMORE 	95
their consent is formally asked by the Master ;
and they are to signify their consent or dis-
sent in their own prudent way, either virtually
or in form, but with unanimity ; nor is this
inherent privilege subject to a dispensation ;
because the members of a particular Lodge are
the best judges of it ; and if a fractious member
should be imposed on them, it might spoil
their harmony, or hinder their freedom ; or
even break and disperse the Lodge, which
ought to be avoided by all good and true
brethren ." 	(Constitutions, 1723, p . 59 .)
The rule of unanimity here referred to is,
however, applicable only to the United States
of America, in all of whose Grand Lodges it is
strictly enforced . Anderson tells us, in the sec-
ond edition of the Constitutions, under the
head of New Regulations (p . 155), that " it
was found inconvenient to insist upon una-
nimity in several cases ; and, therefore, the
Grand Masters have allowed the Lodges to
admit a member if not above three ballots are
against him ; though some Lodges desire no
such allowance ." And accordingly, the pres-
ent Constitution of the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, says : "No person can be made a Mason
in or admitted a member of a Lodge, if, on the
ballot, three black balls appear against him ;
but the by-laws of a Lodge may enact that one
or two back balls shall exclude a candidate-
and by-laws may also enact that a prescribed
period shall elapse before any rejected candi-
date can be again proposed in that Lodge ."
(Rule 190 .) The Grand Lodge of Ireland pre-
scribes unanimity, unless there is a by-law of
the subordinate Lodge to the contrary . (Law
127 .) The Constitution of Scotland provides
that "Three black balls shall exclude a candi-
date . 	Lodges in the Colonies and in Foreign
parts may enact that two black balls shall
exclude ." 	(Rule 181 .) In the continental
Lodges, the modern English regulation pre-
vails . It is only in the Lodges of the United
States that the ancient rule of unanimity is
strictly enforced .
Unanimity in the ballot is necessary to
secure the harmony of the Lodge, which may
be as seriously impaired by the admission of a
candidate contrary to the wishes of one mem-
ber as of three or more ; for every man has his
friends and his influence . Besides, it is un-
just to any member, however humble he may
be, to introduce among his associates one
whose presence might be unpleasant to him,
and whose admission would probably compel
him to withdraw from the meetings, or even
altogether from the Lodge . Neither would
any advantage really accrue to a Lodge by
such a force admission ; for while receiving
a new and untried member into its fold, it
would be losing an old one . For these reasons,
in this country, in every one of its jurisdic-
tions, the unanimity of the ballot is expressly
insisted on ; and it is evident, from what has
been here said, that any less stringent regula-
tion is a violation of the ancient law and usage .
Balsamo, Joseph . 	See Cagliostro .
Baltimore 	Convention . 	A 	Masonic
Congress which met in the city of Baltimore on

96 	BALUSTER
the 8th of May, 1843, in consequence of a rec-
ommendation made by a preceding convention
which had met in Washington, D . C ., in March,
1842 . 	It consisted of delegates from the
States of New Hampshire, Rhode Island, New
York, Maryland, District of Columbia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia ; Alabama,
Florida, Tennessee, Ohio, Missouri, and Lou-
isiana . Its professed objects were to produce
uniformity of Masonic work and to recom-
mend such measures as should tend to the ele-
vation of the Order . It continued in session
for nine days, during which time it was prin-
cipally occupied in an attempt to perfect the
ritual, and in drawing up articles for the per-
manent organization of a Triennial Masonic
Convention of the United States, to consist of
delegates from all the Grand Lodges . In
both of these efforts it failed, although several
distinguished Masons took part in its pro-
ceedings ; the body was too small (consisting,
as it did, of only twenty-three members) to
exercise any decided popular influence on the
Fraternity . Its plan of a Triennial Conven-
tion met with very general opposition, and its
proposed ritual, familiarly known as the "Bal-
timore work," has almost become a myth . Its
only practical result was the preparation and
publication of Moore's Trestle Board, a Mon-
itor which has, however, been adopted only by
a limited number of American Lodges . The
"Baltimore work" did not materially differ
from that originally established by Webb .
Moore's Trestle Board professes to be an ex-
position of its monitorial part ; a statement
which, however, is denied by Dr . Dove, who
was the President of the Convention, and the
controversy on this point at the time between
these two eminent Masons was conducted
with too much bitterness .
Baluster . 	A small column or pilaster,
corruptly called a bannister ; in French, balus-
tre . 	Borrowing the architectural idea, the
Scottish Rite Masons apply the word baluster
to any official circular or other document is-
suing from a Supreme Council .
Balzac, Louis Charles . 	A French archi-
tect of some celebrity, and member of the In-
stitute of Egypt . He founded the Lodge of
the Great Sphinx at Paris . He was also a
poet of no inconsiderable merit, and was the
author of many Masonic canticles in the
French language, among them the well-known
hymn entitled Taisons nous, plus de bruit,
the music of which was composed by M . Rig-
uel . He died March 31, 1820, at which time
he was inspector of the public works in the pre-
fecture of the Seine .
Band . 	The neck ribbon bearing the jewel
of the office in Lodge, Chapter, or Grand
Lodge of various countries, and of the sym-
bolic color pertaining to the body in which it is
worn .
Banner-Bearer . 	The name of an officer
known in the higher degrees in the French
Rite . 	One who has in trust the banner ; sim-
ilar in station to the Standard-Bearer of a
Grand Lodge, or . of a Supreme Body of the
Scottish Rite .
.(Fig . 1 .)
BANNERS
Banneret . 	A small banner . An officer
known in the Order of the Knights Templar,
who, with the Marshal, had charge of warlike
undertakings . A title of an order known as
Knight Banneret, instituted by Edward I .
The banneret of the most ancient order of
knighthood called Knight Bachelor was
(Fig . 2 .) 	(Fig . 3 .)
shaped like Fig . 1 . The Knights Banneret,
next in age, had a pennon like Fig . 2 . That
of the Barons like Fig . 3 .
Banners, Royal Arch . Much difficulty
has been experienced by ritualists in reference
to the true colors and proper arrangements of
the banners used in an American Chapter of
Royal Arch Masons . It is admitted that they
are four in number, and that their colors are
blue, purple, scarlet, and white ; and it is known
too, that the devices on these banners are a
lion, an ox, a man, and an eagle ; but the doubt
is constantly arising as to the relation be-
tween these devices and these colors, and as to
which of the former is to be appropriated to
each of the latter. The question, it is true, is
one of mere ritualism, but it is important that
the ritual should be always uniform, and
hence the object of the present article is to
attempt the solution of this question .
The banners used in a Royal Arch Chapter
are derived from those which are supposed to
have been borne by the twelve tribes of Israel
during their encampment in the wilderness, to
which reference is made in the second chapter
of the Book of Numbers, and the second verse :
"Every man of the children of Israel shall
pitch by his own standard ." But as to what
were the devices on the banners, or what were
their various colors, the Bible is absolutely
silent . To the inventive genius of the Tal-
mudists are we indebted for all that we know
or profess to know on this subject . These
mystical philosophers have given to us with
wonderful precision the various devices which
they have borrowed from the death-bed
prophecy of Jacob, and have sought, probably
in their own fertile imaginations, for the
appropriate colors .
The English Royal Arch Masons, whose
system differs very much from that of their
American Companions, display in their Chap-
ters the twelve banners of the tribes in accord-
ance with the Talmudic devices and colors .
These have been very elaborately described
by Dr . Oliver in his Historical Landmarks
(ii ., 583-97), and beautifully exemplified by
Companion Harris in his Royal Arch Tracing
Boards .
But our American Royal Arch Masons, as
we have seen, use only four banners, being
those attributed by the Talmudists to the four
principal tribes-Judah, Ephraim, Reuben,
and Dan . The devices on these banners are
respectively a lion, an ox, a man, and an eagle .
As to this there is no question, all authorities,

such as they are, agreeing on this point . 	But,
as has been before said, ere is some diversity
of o inion as to the colors of each, and neces-
y as to the officers by whom they should
be home .
Some of the Targumists, or Jewish biblical
commentators, say that the color of the banner
of each tribe was analogous to that of the
stone which represented that tribe in the
breastplate of the High Priest . 	If this were
correct, then the colors of the banners of the
four leading tribes would be red and green,
namely, red for Judah, Ephraim, and Reuben,
and green for Dan ; these being the colors of
the precious stones sardonyx, ligure, carbuncle,
and chrysolite, by which these tribes were rep-
resented in the High Priest's breastplate .
Such an arrangement would not, of course, at
all suit the symbolism of the American Royal
Arch banners .
Equally unsatisfactory is the disposition of
the colors derived from the arms of Speculative
Masonry, as first displayed by Dermott in his
Ahiman Rezon, which is familiar to all Ameri-
can Masons, from the copy published by Cross,
in his Hieroglyphic Chart . 	In this piece of
blazonry, the two fields occupied by Judah
and Dan are azure, or blue, and those of
Ephraim and Reuben are or, or golden yellow ;
an appropriation of colors altogether uncon-
genial with Royal Arch symbolism .
We must then, depend on the Talmudic
writers solely for the disposition and arrange-
ment of the colors and devices of these ban-
ners . 	From their works we learn that the
color of the banner of Judah was white ; that
of Ephraim, scarlet ; that of Reuben, purple ,
and that of Dan, blue ; and that the devices of
the same tribes were respectively the lion, the
ox the man, and the eagle .
'Hence, under this arrangement-and it is
the only one upon which we can depend-the
four banners in a Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons, working in the American Rite, must
be distributed as follows among the banner-
bearing officers :
1st . An eagle, on a blue banner . 	This rep-
resents the tribe of Dan, and is borne by the
Grand Master of the first veil .
2d . A man, on a purple banner . 	This rep-
resents the tribe of Reuben, and is borne by
the Grand Master of the second veil .
3d . An ox, on a scarlet banner . This rep-
resents the tribe of Ephraim, and is borne by
the Grand Master of the third veil .
4th . A lion, on a white banner . 	This rep-
resents the tribe of Judah, and is borne by the
Royal Arch Captain .
Banquet . See Table-Lodge .
Baphomet . The imaginary idol, or, rather,
symbol which the Knights Templars were
accused of employing in their mystic rights .
The forty-second of the charges preferred
against them by Pope Clement is in these
words : Item quod ipsi per singulas provin-
cias habeant idola : videlicet capita quorum
aliqua habebant tres facies, et alia unum : et
aliqua cranium humanism ha bebant . 	Also,
that in all of the provinces they have idols,
BANQUET 	BARD 	9 7
namely, heads, of which some had three faces,
some one, and some had a human skull . 	Von
Hammer, a bitter enemy of the Templars, in
his book entitled The Mystery of Baphomet
Revealed, revived this old accusation, and at-
tached to the Baphomet an impious significa-
tion . 	He derived the name from the Greek
words, $a, baptism, and μfjrts, wisdom, and
thence supposed that it represented the ad-
mission of the initiated into the secret myste-
riesof theOrder . Fromthisgratuitousassump-
tion he deduces his theory, set forth even m
the very title of his work, that the Templars
were convicted, by their own monuments, of
being guilty as Gnostics and Ophites of apos-
tasy, idolatry, and impurity . 	Of this state-
ment he offers no other historical testimony
than the Articles of Accusation, themselves
devoid of proof, but through which the Tem-
plars were made the victims of the jealousy of
the Pope and the avarice of the King of France .
Others again have thought that they could
find in Baphomet a corruption of Mahomet,
and hence they have asserted that the Tem-
plars had been perverted from their relig-
ious faith by the Saracens, with whom they
had so much intercourse, sometimes as foes
and sometimes as friends . 	Nicolai, who
wrote an Essay on the Accusations brought
against the Templars, published at Berlin,
in 1782, supposes, but doubtingly, that the
fi 	e of the Baphomet, figura Ba f'ometi,
w ch was depicted on a bust representing the
Creator, was nothing else but the Pythagorean
pentagon, the symbol of health and prosper-
ity, borrowed by the Templays from the Gnos-
tics, who in turn had obtained it from the
School of Pythagoras .
King, in his learned work on the Gnostics,
thinks that the Baphomet may have been a
symbol of the Manicheans, with whose wide-
spreading heresy in the Middle Ages he does
not doubt that a large portion of the inquiring
spirits of the Temple had been intoxicated .
Amid these conflicting views, all merely
speculative, it will not be uncharitable or un-
reasonable to suggest that the Baphomet, or
skull of the ancient Templars, was, like the
relic of their modern Masonic representatives,
simply an impressive symbol teaching the
lesson of mortality, and that the latter has
really been derived from the former .
Baptism, Masonic . The term "Masonic
Baptism " has been recently applied in this
country by some authorities to that ceremony
which is used in certain of the high degrees,
and which, more properly, should be called
"Lustration ." It has been objected that the
use of the term is calculated to give needless
offense to scrupulous persons who might sup-
pose it to be an imitation of a Christian sacra-
ment . But, in fact, the Masonic baptism has
no allusion whatsoever, either in form or de-
sign, to the sacrament of the Church . 	It is
simply a lustration or purification by water, a
ceremony which was common to all the an-
cient initiations . 	(See Lustration .)
Bard . A title of great dignity and impor-
tance among the ancient Britons, which was

98 	BASTARD
conferred only upon men of distinguished rank
in society and who filled a sacred office . It
was the third or lowest of the three degrees
into which Druidism was divided . (See Druid-
ical Mysteries .)
There is an officer of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland called the "Grand Bard ."
Bastard . 	The question of the ineligibility
of bastards to be made Freemasons was first
brought to the attention of the Craft by
Brother Chalmers I . Paton, who, in several
articles in The London Freemason, in 1869,
contended that they were excluded from in-
itiation by the Ancient Regulations . Subse-
quently, in his compilation entitled Freema-
sonry and its Jurisprudence published in 1872,
he cites several of the Old Constitutions as
explicitly declaring that the men made Masons
shall be "no bastards ." This is a most nnwar-
rantable interpolation not to be justified in
any writer on Jurisprudence ; for on a careful
examination of all the old manuscript copies
which have been published, no such words
are to be found in any one of them . As an
instance of this literary disingenuousness (to
use no harsher term) I quote the following
from his work (p . 60j : "The charge in this
second edition [of Anderson's Constitutions] is
in the following unmistakable words : `The
men made Masons must be freeborn, no bas-
tard (or no bondmen,) of mature age and of
good report, hale and sound, not deformed or
dismembered at the time of their making .' "
print
Now, with a copy of this second edition
lying open before me, I find the passage thus
ed	: "The men made Masons must be
reeborn, (or no bondmen,) of mature age and
of good report, hale and sound, not deformed
or dismembered at the time of their making ."
The words "no bastard " are Paton's interpo-
lation .
Again, Paton quotes from Preston the An-
.cient Charges at makings, in these words :
"That he that be made be able in all degrees ;
that is, freeborn, of a good kindred, true, and
no bondsman or bastard, and that he have his
right limbs as a man ought to have ."
But on referring to Preston (edition of 1775,
and all subsequent editions) we find the pas-
sage to be correctly thus : "That he that be
made be able in all degrees ; that is, freeborn,
of a good kindred, true, and no bondsman,
and that he have his limbs as a man ought to
have ."
Positive law authorities should not be thus
cited, not merely carelessly, but with designed
inaccuracy to support a theory .
But although there is no regulation in the
Old Constitutions which explicitly prohibits
the initiation of bastards, it may be implied
from their language that such prohibition did
exist . Thus, in all the old manuscripts, we
find such expressions as these : he that shall be
made a Mason "must be freeborn and of good
kindred" (Sloane MS ., No . 3323), or "come of
good kindred" (Edinburgh Kilwinning MS .),
or, as the Roberts Print more definitely has it,
"of honest parentage ."
It is not, I therefore think, to be doubted
BARRUEL
that formerly bastards were considered as in-
eligible for initiation, on the same principle
that they were, as a degraded class, excluded
from the priesthood in the Jewish and the prim-
itive Christian church . But the more liberal
spirit of modern times has long since made the
law obsolete, because it is contrary to the prin-
ciples of justice to punish a misfortune as if it
was a crime .
Barbati Fratres . 	Bearded Brothers-at
an earlier date known as the Conversi-crafts-
men known among the Conventual Builders,
admitted to the Abbey Corbey in the year
851, whose social grade was more elevated
than the ordinary workmen, and were free-
born . The Conversi were filiates in the Ab-
beys, used a quasi-monastic dress, could leave
their profession whenever they chose and could
return to civil life . Converts who abstained
from secular pursuits as sinful and professed
conversion to the higher life of the Abbe,
without becoming monks . Schoke or guilds of
such Operatives lodged within the convents .
We are told by Bro . Geo . F . Fort (in his Crit-
ical Inquiry Concerning the Medicevat Con-
ventual Builders, 1884) that the schoo of
dextrous Barbati Fratres incurred the anger
of their coreigionists, by their haughty de-
portment, sumptuous garb, liberty of move-
ment and refusal to have their long, flowing
beards shaven-hence their name-thus tend-
ing to the more fascinating attractions of civil
life as time carried them forward through the
centuries to the middle of the thirteenth, when
William Abbott, of Premontre, attempted to
enforce the rule of shaving the beard . "These
worthy ancestors of our modern craft delib-
erately refused," and said, "if the execution of
this order were pressed against them, `they
would fire every cloister and cathedral in the
country .' " The decretal was withdrawn .
Barefeet . 	See Discalceation .
Barruel, Abbe . 	Augustin Barruel, gen-
erally known as the Abbe Barruel, who was
born, October 2, 1741, at Villeneuve de Berg,
in France, and who died October 5, 1820, was
an implacable enemy of Freemasonry . He
was a prolific writer, but owes his reputation
principally to the work entitled Memoires
pour servir a l'Histoire du Jacobinisme, 4 vols .,
8vo, published in London in 1797 . In this
work he charges the Freemasons with revolu-
tionary principles in politics and with infidel-
ity in religion . He seeks to trace the origin
of the Institution first to those ancient heretics,
the Manicheans, and through them to the
Templars, against whom he revives the old
accusations of Philip the Fair and Clement
V . 	His theory of the Templar origin of
Masonry is thus expressed (ii ., 382) : " Your
whole school and all your Lodges are derived
from the Templars . After the extinction of
their Order, a certain number of guilty knights,
having escaped the proscription, united for
the preservation of their horrid mysteries . To
their impious code they added the vow of
vengeance against the kings and priests who
destroyed their Order, and against all religion
which anathematized their dogmas . They

BARTOLOZZI
made adepts, who should transmit from gener-
ation to generation the same mysteries of in-
iquity, the same oaths, and the same hatred of
the God of the Christians, and of kings, and of
priests . These mysteries have descended to
you, and you continue to perpetuate their
impiety, their vows, and their oaths . Such is
your origin . The lapse of time and the change
of manners have varied a part of your symbols
and your frightful systems ; but the essence
of them remains, the vows, the oaths, the
hatred, and the conspiracies are the same ."
It is not astonishing that Lawrie (History of
Freemasonry, p . 50) should have said of the
writer of such statements, that "that charity
and forbearance which distinguish the Chris-
tian character are never exemplified in the
work of Barruel ; and the hypocrisy of his pre-
tensions is often betrayed by the fury of his
zeal . The tattered veil behind which he at-
tempts to cloak his inclinations often dis-
closes to the reader the motives of the man
and the wishes of his party ." Although the
attractions of his style and the boldness of his
declamation gave Barruel at one time a prom-
inent place among anti-Masonic writers, his
work is now seldom read and never cited in
Masonic controversies, for the progress of
truth has assigned their just value to its ex-
travagant assertions .
Bartolozzi, Francesco (1728-1813) . 	A
famous engraver who lived for some time in
London and engraved the frontispiece of the
1784 edition of the Book of Constitutions . 	He
was initiated in the Lodge of the Nine Muses
in London on February 13 1777 (E . L . H .]
Basilica . 	Literally and originally a royal
palace . A Roman Pagan,basilica was a rect-
angular hall whose length was two or three
times its breadth, divided by two or more lines
of columns, bearing entablatures, into a broad
central nave and side aisles . It was generally
roofed with wood, sometimes vaulted . At one
end was the entrance . From the center of the
opposite end opened a semicircular recess as
broad as the nave, called in Latin the "Tri-
buna" and in Greek the "Apsis ." The uses of
the basilica were various and of a public char-
acter, courts of justice being held in them .
Only a few ruins remain, but sufficient to es-
tablish the form and general arrangement .
The significance of the basilica to Free-
masons is that it was the form adopted for
early Christian churches, and for its influence
on the building guilds .
For the beginning of Christian architecture,
which is practically the beginning of Operative
Masonry, we must seek very near the begin-
ning of the Christian religion . For three cen-
turies the only places in Pagan Rome where
Christians could meet with safety were in
the catacombs . When Constantine adopted
Christianity in 324, the Christians were no
longer forced to worship in the catacombs .
They were permitted to worship in the basilica
and chose days for special worship of the
Saints on or near days of Pagan celebrations or
feast days, so as not to attract the attention
or draw the contempt of the Romans not
BASLE 	9 9
Christians . Examples of this have come down
to us, as, Christmas, St . John the Baptist
Day, St . John the Evangelist Day, etc .
The Christian basilicas spread over the
Roman Empire, but in Rome applied specially
to the seven principal churches founded by
Constantine, and it was their plan that gave
Christian churches this name . The first
builders were the Roman Artificers, and after
the fall of the Western Empire we find a de-
cadent branch at Como (see Como) that de-
veloped into the Comacine Masters, who
evolved, aided by Byzantine workmen and in-
fluence, Lombard architecture .
Basket . 	The basket or fan was among the
Egyptians a symbol of the purification of souls .
The idea seems to have been adopted by other
nations, and hence, "initiations in the Ancient
Mysteries," says Mr . Rolle (Cults de Bacch ., i .,
30) "being the commencement of a better life
and the perfection of it, could not take place
till the soul was purified . The fan had been
accepted as the symbol of that purification
because the mysteries purged the soul of sin,
as the fan cleanses the grain ." John the Bap-
tist conveys the same idea of purification when
he says of the Messiah, "His fan is in his hand,
and he will thoroughly purge his floor ." The
sacred basket in the Ancient Mysteries was
called the AJKrov, and the one who carried it
was termed the xucvdpopos, or basket-bearer .
Indeed, the sacred basket, containing the first
fruits and offerings, was as essential in all sol-
emn processions of the mysteries of Bacchus
and other divinities as the Bible is in the Ma-
sonic procession . As lustration was the sym-
bol of purification by water, so the mystical
fan or winnowing-basket was, according to
Sainte Croix (Myst . du Pag ., t . ii ., p . 81), the
symbol in the Bacchic rites of a purification
by air .
Basle, Congress of . 	A Masonic Congress
was held September 24,1848, at Basle, in Switz-
erland, consisting of one hundred and six
members, representing eleven Lodges under the
patronage of the Swiss Grand Lodge Alpina .
The Congress was principally engaged upon
the discussion of the question, "What can and
what ought Freemasonry to contribute to-
wards the welfare of mankind locally, nation-
ally, and internationally? " The conclusion
to which the Congress appeared to arrive upon
this question was briefly this : "Locally, Free-
masonry ought to strive to make every brother
a good citizen, a good father, and a good
neighbor ; whilst it ought to teach him to per-
form every duty of life faithfully . Nationally,
a Freemason ought to strive to promote and to
maintain the welfare and the honor of his
native land, to love and to honor it himself,
and, if necessary, to place his life and fortune
at its disposal ; Internationally, a Freemason is
bound to go still further : he must consider
himself as a member of that one great family,
-the whole human race,-who are all chil-
dren of one and the same Father, and that it is
in this sense, and with this spirit, that the
Freemason ought to work if he would appear
worthily before the throne of Eternal Truth

100 	BATON
and Justice ." The Congress appears to have
accomplished no practical result .
Baton . 	The truncheon or staff of a Grand
Marshal, and always carried by him in pro-
cessions as the ensign of his office . It is a
wooden rod about eighteen inches long . . In
the militaryuaag a of England, the baton of
the Earl	Earl Marshal was originally of wood, but
in the reign of Richard I I . i t was made of gold,
and delivered to him at his creation, a custom
which is still continued . In the patent or
commission granted by that monarch to the
Duke of Surrey the baton is minutely de-
scribed as "baculum aureum circa utramque
finem de nigro annulatum," a golden wand, hav-
ing black rings around each end-a description
that will very well suit for a Masonic baton .
Bats, Parliament of . 	The Parliament
which assembled in England in the year 1426,
during the minority of Henry VI ., to settle
the disputes between the Duke of Glouces-
ter, the Regent, and the Bishop of Win-
chester, the guardian of the young king's
person, and which was so called because the
members, being forbidden by the Duke of
Gloucester to wear swords, armed themselves
with clubs or bats . It has been stated by
Preston (Illustrations) that it was in this
Parliament that the Act forbidding Masons
to meet in Chapters or Congregations was
passed ; but this is erroneous, for that act
was passed in 1425 by the Parliament at
Westminster, while the Parliament of Bats
met at Leicester in 1426 . 	[E . L . H .]
(See Laborers, Statutes of .)
Battery . 	A given number of blows by the
gavels of the officers, or by the hands of the
Brethren, as a mark of approbation, admira-
tion, or reverence, and at times accompanied
by the acclamation .
Bavaria . 	Freemasonry was introduced
into Bavaria, from France, in 1737 . The
meetings of the Lodges were suspended in
1784 by the reigning duke, Charles Theodore,
and the Act of suspension was renewed in 1799
and 1804 by Maximilian Joseph, the King of
Bavaria . The Order was subsequently revived
in 1812 and in 1817 . The Grand Lodge of
Bayreuth was constituted in 1811 under the
appellation of the "Grand Lodge zur Sonne ."
In 1868 a Masonic conference took place of
the Lodges under its jurisdiction, and a con-
stitution was adopted, which guarantees to
every confederated Lodge perfect freedom of
ritual and government, provided the Grand
Lodge finds these to be Masonic .
Bay-Tree . 	An evergreen plant, and a
symbol in Freemasonry of the immortal na-
ture of Truth. By the bay-tree thus referred
to in the ritual of the Companion of the Red
Cross, is meant the laurel, which, as an ever-
green, was among the ancients a symbol of
immortality . It is, therefore, properly com-
pared with truth, which Josephus makes Zer-
ubbabel say is "immortal and eternal ."
Bazot, Etienne Frangols . A French Ma-
sonic writer, born at Nievre, March 31, 1782 .
He published at Paris, in 1810, a Vocabulaire
des Francs-Masons, which was translated into
BEAUSEANT
Italian, and in 1811 a Manuel du Franc-Mason
which is one of the most judicious works of
the kind published in France . He was also
the author of Morale de la Franc-Magonnerie,
and the Tuileur Expert des 33 degres, which is a
complement to his Manuel . 	Bazot was distin-
guished for other literary writings on subjects
of general literature, such as two volumes of
Tales and Poems, A Eulogy on the Abbe de
1'Epee, and as the editor of the Biographie Nou-
velle des Contem~ p oraires, in 20 volumes .
B . D . S. P . ld . G . F . 	In the French rituals
of the Knights of the East and West, these
letters are the initials of Beaute, Divinit6,
Sagesse, Puissance, Honneur, Gloire, Force,
which correspond to the letters of the English
rituals, B . D . W . P . H . G . S ., which are the
initials of equivalent words .
Beadle . 	An officer in a Council of Knights
of the Holy Sepulcher, corresponding to the
Junior Deacon of a symbolic Lodge . The
beadle, bedellus (DuCange), is one, says Jun-
ius, who proclaims and executes the will of
superior powers .
Beaton, Mrs . 	One of those fortunate fe-
males who are said to have obtained posses-
sion of the Masons' secrets . The following ac-
count of her is given in A General History of
the County of Norfolk, published in 1829 (vol .
2, p . 1304) . Mrs . Beaton, who was a resident
of Norfolk, England, was commonly called the
Freemason, from the circumstance of her hav-
ing contrived to conceal herself, one evening,
in the wainscoting of a Lodge-room, where she
learned the secret-at the knowledge of which
thousands of her sex have in vain attempted
to arrive . She was, in many respects, a very
singular character, of which one proof adduced
is that the secret of the Freemasons died with
her . 	She died at St . John Maddermarket,
Norwich, July, 1802, aged eighty-five .
Beaucenifer . 	From Beauseant, and fero,
to carry . The officer among the old Knights
Templar whose duty it was to carry the Beau-
seant in battle . The office is still retained in
some of the high degrees which are founded on
Templarism .
Beauchalne . 	The Chevalier Beauchaine
wasoneof the mostfanaticalof the irremovable
Masters of the Ancient Grand Lodge of
France . He had established his Lodge at the
"Golden Sun " an inn in the Rue St . Victor,
Paris, where he slept, and for six francs con-
ferred all the degrees of Freemasonry . On
August 	17, 	1747, 	he
organized the Order of
Fendeurs, 	or 	Woodcut-
ters, at Paris .
Beauseant . 	The
vexillum belli, or war-
banner of the ancient
Templars, which is also
used by the modern Ma-
sonic Order . The upper
half of the banner was
black, and the lower half
white : black, to typify terror to foes, and white,
fairness to friends . It bore the pious inscrip-
tion, Non nobis, Domine non nobis, red nomini

BEAUTY
tuo da gloriam . It is frequently, says Barring-
ton (Intro . to Her ., p . 121), introduced among
the decorations in the Temple Church, and on
one of the paintings on the wall, Henry I . is
represented with this banner in his hand . As
to the derivation of the word, there is some
doubt among writers . Bauseant or Bausant
was, in old French, a piebald or party-colored
horse ; and the word Bawseant is used in the
Scottish dialect with a similar reference to two
colors . Thus, Burns says :
"His honest, sonsie, baws'nt face,"
where Dr . Currie, in his Glossary of Burns, ex-
plains bawsent as meaning " having a white
stripe down the face ." It is also supposed by
some that the word bauseant may be only a
form, in the older language, of the modern
French word biensfant which signifies some-
thing decorous or handsome ; but the former
derivation is preferable, in which beauseant
would signify simply a party-colored banner .
With regard to the double signification of the
white and black banner, the Orientalists have
a legend of Alexander the Great, which may be
appropriately quoted on the present occasion,
as given by Weil in his Biblical Legends
(p . 70) .
amb
Alexander was the lord of light and dark-
ness : when he went out with his army the
light was before him, and behind him was the
darkness, so that he was secure against all
uscades-
iil and by means of a miraculous
white and 	lack standard he had also the
power to transform the clearest day into mid-
night and darkness, or black night into noon-
day, just as he unfurled the one or the other .
Thus he was unconquerable, since he rendered
his troops invisible at his pleasure, and came
down suddenly upon his foes . Might there not
have been some connection between the myth-
ical white and black standard of Alexander
and the Beauseant of the Templars? We know
that the latter were familiar with Oriental
symbolism .
Beauseant was also the war-cry of the An-
cient Templars .
Beauty . 	Said to be symbolically one of
the three supports of a Lodge . It is repre-
sented by the Corinthian column, because the
Corinthian is the most beautiful of the ancient
orders of Architecture ; and by the Junior
Warden, because he symbolizes the meridian
sun-the most beautiful object in the heavens .
Hiram Abif is also said to be represented by
the Column of Beauty because the Temple
was indebted to his skip for its splendid deco-
rations . The idea of Beauty as one of the sup-
ports of the Lodge is found in the earliest rit-
uals of the eighteenth century, as well as the
symbolism which refers it to the Corinthian
column and the Junior Warden . Preston first
introduced the reference to the Corinthian
column and to Hiram Abif . Beauty, 111KD21,
tiphiret, was the sixth of the Kabbalistic Seph-
iroth, and, with Justice and Mercy, formed the
second Sephirotic triad ; and from the Kabbal-
ists the Masons most probably derived the
symbol . 	(See Supports of theLodge .)
BEEHIVE 	101
Beauty and Bands . 	The names of the
two rods spoken of by the prophet Zechariah
as symbolic of his pastoral office . This expres-
sion was in use in portions of the old Masonic
ritual in England ; but in the system of Dr .
Hemming, which was adopted at the union of
the two Grand Lodges in 1813, this symbol,
with all reference to it, was expunged, and, as
Dr . Oliver says (Sym . Dic .), "it is nearly for-
gotten, except by a few old Masons, who may
perhaps recollect the illustration as an inci-
dental subject of remark among the Fraternity
of that period ."
Becker . See Johnson .
Becker, Rudolph Zacharias . 	A very
zealous Mason of Gotha, who published, in
1786, an historical essay on the Bavarian Il-
luminati under the title of Grundsatze Verfas-
sung and Schicksale des Illuminatens Order in
Baiern . He was a very popular writer on edu-
cational subjects ; his Instructive Tales of Joy
and Sorrow was so highly esteemed, that a
half million copies were printed in German
and other languages . He died in 1802 .
B6darride, The Brothers . 	The Brothers
Marc, Michel, and Joseph Bedarride were
Masonic charlatans, notorious for their propa-
gation of the Rite of Mizraim, having estab-
lished in 1813, at Paris, under the partly real
and partly pretended authority of Lechan-
geur, the inventor of the Rite, a upreme Puis-
sance for France, and organized a large num-
ber of Lodges . Of these three brothers, who
were Israelites, Michel, who assumed the most
prominent position in the numerous contro-
versies which arose in French Masonry on
account of their Rite died February 16, 1856 .
Marc died ten years iefore, in April, 1846 . Of
Joseph, who was never very prominent, we
have no record as to the time of his death .
(See Mizraim, Rite of .)
Beehive . The bee was among the Egyp-
tians the symbol of an obedient peoplebe-
cause, says Horapollo, of all insects, the bee
alone had a king . Hence, looking at the regu-
lated labor of these insects when congre-
gated in their hive, it is not surprising that a
beehive should have been deemed an appropri-
ate emblem of systematized industry . Free-
masonry has therefore adopted the beehive as
a symbol of industry, a virtue taught in the
ritual which says that a Master Mason
"works that he may receive wages, the better
to support himself and family, and contribute
to the relief of a worthy, distressed brother
his widow and orphans " ; and in the Old
Charges, which tell us that "all Masons shall
work honestly on working days, that they
may live creditably on holidays ." 	There
seems, however, to be a more recondite mean-
ing connected with this symbol . The ark has
already been shown to have been an emblem
common to Freemasonry and theAncient Mys-
teries, as a symbol of regeneration-of the
second birth from death to life . Now in the
Mysteries, a hive was the type of the ark .
"Hence," says Faber (Orig . of Pag . Idol ., vol .
ii ., 133), "both the diluvian priestesses and
the regenerated souls were called bees ; hence,

1 02 	BEHAVIOR
bees were feigned to be produced from the
carcass of a cow, which also symbolized the
ark ; and hence, as the great father was es-
teemed an infernal god, honey was much used
both in funeral rites and in the Mysteries ."*
Behavior . The subject of a Mason's be-
havior is one that occupies much attention in
both the ritualistic and the monitorial instruc-
tions of the Order . In " the Charges of a Free-
mason," extracted from the ancient records
and first published in the Constitutions of
1723, the sixth article is exclusively appropri-
ated to the subject of "Behavior ." It is
divided into six sections, as follows : 1 . Be-
havior in the Lodge while constituted . 2 . Be
havior after the Lodge is over and the Breth-
ren not gone . 3 . Behavior when Brethren
meet without strangers, but not in a Lodge
formed . 	4 . Behavior in presence of stran-
gers not Masons . 5 . Behavior at home and
in your neighborhood . 	6 . Behavior to-
ward a strange brother . The whole article
constitutes a code of moral ethics remarkable
for the purity of the principles it inculcates
and is well worthy of the close attention olt
every Mason . It is a complete refutation of
the slanders of anti-Masonic revilers . As
these charges are to be found in all the editions
of the Book of Constitutions, and in many
recent Masonic works, they are readily ac-
cessible to everyone who desires to read them .
Behold Your Master . When, in the in-
stallation services, the formula is used, "Breth-
ren, behold your master," the expression is not
simply exclamatory, but is intended, as the
original use of the word behold implies, to in-
vite the members of the Lodge to fix their at-
tention upon the new relations which have
sprung up between them and him who has j ust
been elevated to the Oriental Chair, and to
impress upon their minds the duties which
they owe to him and which he owes to them .
In like manner, when the formula is continued,
"Master, behold your brethren," the Mas-
ter's attention is impressively directed to the
same change of relations and duties . These
are not mere idle words, but convey an im-
portant lesson, and should never be omitted
in the ceremony of installation .
Bel . 5? , Bel, is the contracted form of t1y5,
Baal, and was worshiped by the Babylonians
as their chief deity . The Greeks and Romans
so considered and translated the word by Zeus
and Jupiter . It has, with Jah and On, been in-
troduced into the Royal Arch system as a
representative of the Tetragrammaton, which
it and the accompanying words have some-
times ignorantly been made to displace . At
the session of the General Grand Chapter of
the United States, in 1871, this error was cor-
rected ; and while the Tetragrammaton was
declared to be the true omnific word, the other
three were permitted to be retained as merely
explanatory .
Belenus . 	Belenus, the Baal of the Scrip-
ture, was identified with Mithras and with
* Bee, Evans, Animal Symbolism in Ecclesiasti-
cal Architecture	.
BENAC
Apollo, the god of the sun . A forest in the
neighborhood of Lausanne is still known as
Sauv ,belin, or the forest of Belenus, and traces
of this name are to be found in many parts of
En land . The custom of kindling fires about
midnight on the eve of the festival of St . John
the Baptist, at the moment of the summer
solstice, which was considered by the ancients
a season of rejoicing and of divination, is a
vestige of Druidism in honor of this deity . It
is a significant coincidence that the numerical
value of the letters of the word Belenus, like
those of Abraxas and Mithras, all representa-
tives of the sun, amounts to 365, the exact
number of the 'days in a solar year . (See
Abraxas .)
Belgium . 	Soon after the separation of
Belgium from the Netherlands, an independ-
ent Masonic jurisdiction was demanded by
the former . Accordingly, in May, 1833, the
Grand Orient of Belgium was established,
which has under itq jurisdiction twenty-one
Lodges . There is also a Supreme Council of
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, which
was constituted in the year 1817 .
Belief, Religious . 	The fundamental law
of Masonry contained in the first of the Old
Charges collected in 1723, and inserted in the
Book of Constitutions published in that year,
sets forth the true doctrine as to what the
Institution demands of a Mason in reference
to his religious belief in the following words :
"A Mason is obliged, by his tenure, to obey
the moral law ; and if he rightly understands
the art, he will never be a stupid atheist nor
an irreligious libertine . But though in ancient
times Masons were charged in every country
to be of the religion of that country or nation,
whatever it was, yet it is now thought more
expedient only to oblige them to that religion
in which all men agree, leaving their particular
opinions to themselves ." Anderson, in his
second edition, altered this article, calling a
Mason a true Noaohida, and saying that
Masons "all agree in the three great articles of
Noah," which is incorrect, since the Precepts
of Noah were seven . (See Religion of Masonry .)
Bells . 	The use of a bell in the ceremonies
of the Third Degree, to denote the hour, is,
manifestly, an anachronism, for bells were not
invented until the fifth century . But Free-
masons are not the only people who have
imagined the existence of bells at the build-
ing of the Temple . Henry Stephen tells us
(Apologie pour Herodote, ch . 39) of a monk
who boasted that when he was at Jerusalem
he obtained a vial which contained some of
the sounds of King Solomon's bells . The
blunders of a ritualist and the pious fraud of a
relic-monger have equal claims to authenticity .
The Masonic anachronism is, however, not
worth consideration, because it is simply in-
tended for a notation of time-a method of
expressing intelligibly the hour at which a
supposed event occurred .
Benae . 	A significant word in Symbolic
Masonry, obsolete in many of the modern
systems, whose derivation is uncertain . (See
Macbenac .)

BENAI
Benal . 	See Bonaim .
Benakar . The name of a cavern to which
certain assassins fled for concealment .
Bendekar . A significant word in the high
degrees . One of the Princes or Intendants of
Solomon, in whose quarry some of the traitors
spoken of in the Third Degree were found . He
is mentioned in the catalogue of Solomon's
princes, given in 1 Kings iv . 9 . The Hebrew
word is 1 I7, the son of him who divides or
pierces . 	In some old rituals we find a corrupt
form, Bendac a .
Benedict XIV . 	A Roman pontiff whose
family name was Prosper Lambertini . He
was born at Bologna in 1675, succeeded
Clement X II . a s Pope in 1740, and died in
1758 . He was distinguished for his learning
and was a great encourager of the Arts and
Sciences . He was, however, an implacable
enemy of secret societies, and issued on the
18th of May, 1751, his celebrated bull, renew-
ing and perpetuating that of his predecessor
which excommunicated the Freemasons . (See
Bull .)
Benediction . The solemn invocation of a
blessing in the ceremony of closing a Lodge is
called the benediction . The usual formula is
as follows :
"May the blessing of Heaven rest upon us,
and all regular Masons ; may brotherly love
prevail, and every moral and social virtue
cement us ." The response is, "So mote it be .
Amen " • which should always be audibly pro-
nounced by all the Brethren .
Beneficiary . One who receives the sup-
rt or charitable donations of a Lodge .
Those who are entitled to these benefits are
affiliated Masons, their wives or widows, their
widowed mothers, and their minor sons and
unmarried daughters . Unaffiliated Masons
cannot become the beneficiaries of a Lodge,
but affiliated Masons cannot be deprived of its
benefits on account of non-payment of dues .
Indeed, as this non-paym ent of ten arises from
poverty it thus furnishes a stronger claim for
fraternal charity .
Benefit Society, Masonic . 	In 1798, a
society was established in London, under the
patronage of the Prince of Wales, the Earl of
Moira, and all the other acting officers of the
Grand Lodge, whose object was "the relief of
sick, aged, and imprisoned brethren, and for
the protection of their widows, children, and
orphans ." The payment of one guinea per
annum entitled every member, when sick or
destitute, or his widow and orphans in case of
his death, to a fixed contribution . After a few
years, however, the Society came to an end, as
it was considered improper to turn Freema-
sonry into a Benefit Club .
Benefit funds of this kind have been gen-
erally unknown to the Masons of America,
although some Lodges have established a
fund for the p 	The Lodge of Strict
Observance in the City of New York, and
others in Troy, Ballston Schenectady, etc .,
some years ago, adopted benefit funds . In
1844, several members of the Lodges in Louis-
ville, Kentucky, organized a society under the
BENEVOLENT 	103
title of the "Friendly Sons of St . John ." It
was constructed after the model of the English
society already mentioned . No member was
received after forty-five years of age, or who
was not a contributing member of a Lodge ; the
per diem allowance to sick members was
seventy-five cents ; fifty dollars were appro-
priated to pay the funeral expenses of a de-
ceased member, and twenty-five for those of
a member's wife ; on the death of a member a
gratuity was given to his family ; ten per
cent of all fees and dues was appropriated to
an orphan fund ; and it was contemplated, if
the funds would justify, to pension the widows
of deceased members, if their circumstances
required it .
But the establishment in Lodges of such
benefit funds is in opposition to the pure sys-
tem of Masonic charity, and, they have, there-
fore, been very properly discouraged by
several Grand Lodges, though several still
exist in Scotland .
Benevolence . 	Cogan, in his work On the
Passions, thus defines Benevolence : "When
our love or desire of good goes forth to others,
it is termed good-will or benevolence . 	Benev-
olence embraces all beings capable of enjoying
any portion of good ; and thus it becomes uni-
versal benevolence, which manifests itself by
being pleased with the share of good every
creature enjoys, in a disposition to increase it
in feeling an uneasiness at their sufferings, and
in the abhorrence of cruelty under every dis-
guise or pretext ." This spirit should pervade
the hearts of all Masons, who are taught to
look upon mankind as formed by the Great
Architect of the Universe for the mutual
assistance, instruction, and support of each
other .
Benevolence, Fund of . 	This Fund was
established in 1727 by the Grand Lodge of
England under the management of a Com-
mittee of seven members, to whom twelve
more were added in 1730 . It was originally
supported by voluntary contributions from
the various Lodges, and intended for the re-
lief of distressed Brethren recommended by
the contributing Lodges . The Committee
was called the Committee of Charity .
The Fund is now derived partly from the
fees of honor payable by Grand Officers, and
the fees for dispensations, and partly from an
annual payment of four shillings from each
London Mason and of two shillings from each
country Mason ; it is administered by the
Board of Benevolence, which consists of all
the present and past Grand Officers, all actual
Masters of Lodges and twelve Past Masters .
The Fund is solely devoted to charity, and
during the year 1909 a sum of £15,275 was
voted and paid to petitioners .
In the United States of America there are
several similar organizations known as "Boards
of Relief ." (See Relief, Board of .) [E . L . H .]
Benevolent Institutions, U . S . There
are five institutions in the United States of an
educational and benevolent character, deriv-
ing their existence in whole or in part
from Masonic beneficence : 1 . Girard College,

1 0 4 	BENGABEE
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ; 2 . Masonic Wid-
ows' and Orphans' Home, Louisville Ken-
tucky ; 3 . Oxford Orphan Asylum, oxford,
North Carolina ; 4 . St . John's Masonic Col-
lege, Little Rock, Arkansas ; 5 . Masonic Fe-
male College, Covington, Georgia .
Besides the Stephen Girard Charity Fund,
founded over a half century ago in Philadel-
phia, the capital investment of which is
$62,000, the annual interest being devoted
"to relieve all Master Masons in good stand-
in ," there is a Charity Fund of $60,000 for the
relief of the widows and orphans of deceased
Master Masons, and an incorporated Masonic
Home . The District of Columbia has an
organized Masonic charity, entitled St . John's
Mite Association . 	Idaho has an Orphan
Fund, to which every Master Mason pays
annually one dollar . Indiana has organized
the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home
Society . Maine has done likewise ; and Ne-
braska has an Orphans' School Fund, although
no building has been proposed .
Bengabee . 	Found in some old rituals of
the high degrees for Bendekar, as the name of
an Intendant of Solomon . It is Bengeber in the
catalogue of Solomon's officers, 1 Kings iv . 13,
the son of Geber, or the son of the strong man .
Bengal . 	In 1728 a "Deputation " was
granted by Lord Kingston, Grand Master of
England, to Brother George Pomfret to con-
stitute a Lodge at Bengal m East India, that
had been requested by some Brethren residing
there ; and in the following year a Deputation
was granted to Captain Ralph Far Winter, to
be Provincial Grand Master of East India at
Bengal (Constitutions, 1738, p . 194) ; and in
1730 a Lodge was established at the "East
India Arms, Fort William, Calcutta, Bengal,"
and numbered 72 . There is a District Grand
Lodge of Bengal with 74 subordinate Lodges
and also a District Grand Chapter with 21
subordinate Chapters . 	[E . L . H .]
Benjamin . 	A significant word in several
of the degrees which refer to the second
Temple, because it was only the tribes of
Judah and Benjamin that returned from the
captivity to rebuild it . Hence, in the Ma-
sonry of the second Temple, Judah and Ben-
jamin have superseded the columns of Jachin
and Boaz ; a change the more easily made
because of the identity of the initials .
Benkhurim . 	Corruptly spelled benchorim
in most of the old rituals . A significant word
in the high degrees, probably signifying one
that is freeborn, from DI11rr - ID, son of the free-
born .
Benyah, or Beniah . 	Lenning gives this
form, Benayah . 	The son of Jah, a significant
word in the high degrees .
Berith . 	Heb ., r"1], a covenant . 	A sig-
nificant word in several of the high degrees .
Berlin . 	The capital of the kingdom of
Prussia, and the seat of three Grand Lodes,
namely : the Grand National Mother Loge,
founded in 1744 ; the Grand Lodge of Ger-
many, founded in 1770 ; and the Grand Lodge
of Royal York of Friendship, founded in 1798 .
(See Germany .)
BIBLE
Bernard, David . An expelled Mason,
under whose name was published, in the year
1829, a pretended exposition entitled Light on
Masonry . 	It was one of the fruits of the anti-
Masonic excitement of the day . It is a worth-
less production, intended as a libel on the
Institution .
Bernard, Saint . 	St . Bernard, born in
France, in 1091, was the founder of the Order
of Cistercian Monks . He took great interest
in the success of the Knights Templar, whose
Order he cherished throughout his whole life .
His works contain numerous letters recom-
mending them to the favor and protection of
the great . In 1128, he himself drew up the Rule
of the Order, and among his writings is to be
found a Sermo exhortatorius ad Milites Templi,
or an "Exhortation to the Soldiers of the
Temple," a production full of sound advice .
To the influence of Bernard and his untiring
offices of kindness, the Templars were greatly
indebted for their rapid increase in wealth and
consequence . He died in the year 1153 .
Beryl . 	Heb ., T 171n . A precious stone,
the first in the fourth row of the high priest's
breastplate . Its color is bluish-green . It was
ascribed to the tribe of Benjamin .
Beyerle, Fran ols Louis de . A French
Masonic writer of some prominence toward
the close of the eighteenth century . He was a
leading member of the Rite of Strict Observ-
ance, in which his adopted name was Eques d
Flore . 	He wrote a criticism on the Masonic
Congress of Wilhelmsbad, which was pub-
lished under the title of Oratio de Conventu
generali Latomorum aped aquas Wilhelminas,
prope Hanauviam . 	He also wrote an Essai
sur la Franc-Magonnerie, ou du but essential et
fondamental de la Franc-Maconnerie ; trans-
lated the second volume of Frederic Nicolai's
essay on the crimes imputed to the Templars,
and was the author of several other Masonic
works of less importance . He was a member
of the French Constitutional Convention of
1792 . 	He wrote also some political essays on
finances, and was a contributor on the same
subject to the Encyclop€die Methodique .
Bezaleel . 	One of the builders of the Ark
of the Covenant . (See Aholiab)
Bible . The Bible is 	roperly called a
greater light of Masonry, for from the center
of the Loge it pours forth upon the East, the
West, and the South its refulgent rays of Divine
truth. The Bible is used among Masons as a
symbol of the will of God, however it may be
expressed . And, therefore, whatever to any
people expresses that will may be used as a
substitute for the Bible in a Masonic Lodge .
Thus, in a Lodge consisting entirely of Jews,
the Old Testament alone may be placed upon
the altar, and Turkish Masons make use of
the Koran . Whether it be the Gospels to the
Christian, the Pentateuch to the Israelite,
the Koran to the Mussulman, or the Vedas
to the Brahman, it everywhere Masonically
conveys the same idea-that of the symbolism
of the Divine Will revealed to man .
The history of the Masonic symbolism of
the Bible is interesting . It is referred to in

BIBLE-BEARER
the manuscripts before the revival as the book
upon which the covenant was taken, but it
was never referred to as a great light . In the
old ritual, of which a copy from the Royal
Library of Berlin is given by Krause (Drei
alt . Kunsturk, i . 32) there is no mention of the
Bible as one of the lights . Preston made it a
part of the furniture of the Lodge ; but in
rituals of about 1760 it is described as one of
the three great lights . In the American sys-
tem, the Bible is both a piece of furniture and
a great light .
Bible-Bearer . 	In Masonic processions the
oldest Master Mason present is generally
selected to carry the open Bible, Square, and
Compasses on a cushion before the Chaplain .
This brother is called the Bible-Bearer . The
" Grand Bible-Bearer " is an officer of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland .
Bibliography . 	In French, we have a
Bibliographie des Ouvrages, Opuscules Ency-
cliques ou ccrits les plus remarquables, publics
sur 1'histoire de la Franc-Maconnerie depuis,
1723,,jusques en 1814 . 	It is by Thory, and is
contained in the first volume of his Acta
Latomorum . 	Though not full, it is useful,
especially in respect to French works, and it
is to be regretted that it stops at a period
anterior to the Augustan age of Masonic
literature . In German, we have the work of
Dr . Georg Kloss entitled Bibliographie der
Freimaurerei, published at Frankfort in 1844 .
At the time of its publication it was an almost
exhaustive work, and contains the titles
of about six thousand volumes . See also
Bibliography in this work (vol . ii .) .
Bielfeld, Jacob Frederick . 	Baron Biel-
feld was born March 31, 1717, and died April
5, 1770 . 	He was envoy from the court of
Prussia to The Hague, and a familiar associate
of Frederick the Great in the youthful days of
that Prince before he ascended the throne .
He was one of the founders of the Lodge of
the Three Globes in Berlin, which afterward
became a Grand Lodge . Through his influ-
ence Frederick was induced to become a
Mason . In Bielfeld's Freundschaftlicher Briefe,
or "Familiar Letters," are to be found an ac-
count of the initiation of the Prince, and other
curious details concerning Freemasonry .
Birkhead, Matthew . A Mason who owes
his reputation to the fact that he was the
author of the universally known Entered
Apprentice's song, beginning :
"Come let us prepare,
We Brothers that are
Assembled on merry occasions ;
Let's drink, laugh, and sing ;
Our wine has a spring .
Here's a health to an Accepted Mason ."
This song first appeared in Read's Weekly
Journal for December 1, 1722, and then was
published in the Book of Constitutions in 1723,
after the death of its author, which occurred on
December 30, 1722 .
Birkhead was a singer and actor at Drury
Lane Theater in London, and was Master of
Lodge V when Dr . Anderson was preparing
BLACKBOARD 	105
his Constitutions . 	His funeral is thus de-
scribed in Read's Weekly Journal for January
12, 1723 : "Mr . Birkhead was last Saturday
night carried from his Lodgings in Which-
street to be interr'd at St . Clements Danes ;
the Pall was supported by six Free-Masons
belonging toDrury-Lane Play-house ; the other
Members of that particular Lodge of which
he was a Warden, with a vast number of other
Accepted-Masons, followed two and two ; both
the Pall-bearers and others were in their white-
aprons ." (See Tune ;Freemasons .) (E .L .H .)
Black . 	Black, in the Masonic ritual, is
constantly the symbol of grief . This is per-
fectly consistent with its use in the world,
where black has from remote antiquity been
adopted as the garment of mourning .
In Masonry this color is confined to but a
few degrees, but everywhere has the single
meaning of sorrow . Thus in the French Rite,
during the ceremony of raising a candidate to
the Master's Degree, the Lodge is clothed in
black strewed with tears, as a token of grief for
the loss of a distinguished member of the Fra-
ternity, whose tragic history is commemorated
in that degree . This usage is not however,
observed in the York Rite . The black of the'
Elected Knights of Nine, the Illustrious Elect
of Fifteen, and the Sublime Knights Elected,
in the Scottish Rite, has a similar import .
In the degree of Noachite, black appears to
have been adopted as a symbol of grief, tem-
pered with humility, which is the virtue
principally dilated on in the degree .
The garments of the Knights Templar were
originally white, but after the death of their
martyred Grand Master, James de Molay,
the modern Knights assumed a black dress as
a token of grief for his loss . The same reason
led to the adoption of black as the appropriate
color in the Scottish Rite of the Knights of
Kadosh and the Sublime Princes of the Royal
Secret . The modern American modification
of the Templar costume destroys all reference
to this historical fact .
One exception to this symbolism of black is
to be found in the degree of Select Master
where the vestments are of black bordered
with red, the combination of the two colors
showing that the degree is properly placed
between the Royal Arch and Templar degrees,
while the black is a symbol of silence and
secrecy, the distinguishing virtues of a Select
Master .
Blackball . 	The ball used in a Masonic
ballot by those who do not wish the candidate
to be admitted . Hence, when an applicant
is rejected he is said to be "blackballed ."
The use oi black balls may be traced as far
back as the ancient Romans . Thus, Ovid
says (Met ., xv . 41), that in trials it was the
custom of the ancients to condemn the
prisoner by black pebbles or to acquit him by
white ones .
" Mos erat antiquus, niveis atrisque lapillis,
His damnare reos, illis absolvere culpes ."
Blackboard . 	In 	German 	Lodges the
Schwarze Tafel, or Blackboard, is that on

1 0 6 	BLACK
which the names of applicants for admission
are inscribed, so that ever y visitor may make
the necessary in q uiries whether they are or
are not worthy of acceptance .
Black Brothers, Order of the . Lenning
says that the Schwarze Bri der was one of the
College Societies of the German Universities .
The members of the Order, however, denied
this, and claimed an origin as early as 1675 .
Thory (Act . Lat ., i ., 313) says that it was
largely spread through Germany, having its
seat for a long time at Giessen and at Mar-
burg, and in 1783 being removed to Frankfort
on the Oder . The same writer asserts that at
first the members observed the dogmas and
ritual of the Kadosh, but that afterward the
Order, becoming a political society, gave rise
to the Black Le g ion, which in 1813 was com-
manded by M . Lutzow .
Blayney, Lord . 	Grand Master of the
English Grand Lodge of the "Moderns,"
1764-6 .
Blazing Star . 	The Blazing Star, which is
not, however, to be confounded with the Five-
Pointed Star, is one of the most important
symbols of Freemasonry, and makes its ap-
pearance in several of the degrees . "It is,"
says Hutchinson, "the first and most exalted
object that demands our attention in the
Lodge ." It undoubtedly derives this im-
portance, first, from the repeated use that is
made of it as a Masonic emblem ; and secondly,
from its great antiquity as a symbol derived
from other and older systems .
Extensive as has been the application of
this symbol in the Masonic ritual, it is not sur-
prising that there has been a great difference
of opinion in relation to its true signification .
But this difference of opinion has been almost
entirely confined to its use in the First Degree .
In the higher degrees, where there has been
less opportunity of innovation, the uniformity
of meaning attached to the star has been care-
fully preserved .
In the Twenty-eighth Degree of the Ancient
and Acce p ted Scottish Rite, the explanation
given of the Blazing Star, is, that it is symbolic
of a true Mason, who, by perfecting himself in
the way of truth, that is to say, by advancing
in knowledge, becomes like a blazing star,
shining with brilliancy in the midst of dark-
ness . The star is, therefore, in this degree, a
symbol of truth .
In the Fourth Degree of the same Rite, the
star is again said to be a symbol of the light
of Divine Providence pointing out the way
of truth .
In the Ninth Degree, this symbol is called
"the star of direction" ; and while it primi-
tively alludes to an especial guidance given
for a particular purpose expressed in the
degree, it still retains, in a remoter sense, its
usual signification as an emblem of Divine
Providence guiding and directing the pilgrim
in his journey through life .
When, however, we descend to Ancient
Craft Masonry, we shall find a considerable
diversity in the application of this symbol .
In the earliest rituals, immediately after
BLAZING
the revival of 1717, the Blazin g Star is not
mentioned, but it was not long before it was
introduced . In the ritual of 1735 it is de-
tailed as a part of the furniture of a Lodge,
with the explanation that the "Mosaic Pave-
ment is the Ground Floor of the Lodge, the
Blazing Star, the Centre, and the Indented
Tarsel, the Border round about it I" 	In a
primitive Tracing Board of the Entered
Apprentice, Copied by Oliver, in his Historical
Landmarks (i ., 133), without other date than
that it was "published early in the last
century," the Blazing Star occupies a prom-
inent position in the center of the Tracing
Board . 	Oliver says that it represented
BEAUTY, and was called "the glory in the
centre ."
In the lectures subsequently prepared by
Dunckerley, and adopted by the Grand Lodge,
the Blazing Star was said to represent "the
star which led the wise men to Bethlehem,
proclaiming to mankind the nativity of the
Son of God, and here conducting our spiritual
progress to the Author of our redemption ."
In the Prestonian lecture, the Blazing Star
with the Mosaic Pavement and the Tesselateci
Border, are called the Ornaments of the Lodge,
and the Blazing Star is thus explained :
"The Blazing Star, or glory in the centre,
reminds us of that awful period when the
Almighty delivered the two tables of stone,
containing the ten commandments, to His
faithful servant Moses on Mount Sinai, when
the rays of His divine glory shone so bright
that none could behold it without fear and
trembling . It also reminds us of the omni-
presence of the Almighty, overshadowing us
with His divine love, and dispensing His bless-
ings amongst us ; and by its being placed in the
centre, it further reminds us, that wherever
we may be assembled together, God is in the
midst of us, seeing our actions, and observing
the secret intents and movements of our
hearts ."
In the lectures taught by Webb, and very
generally adopted in this country, the Blazing
Star is said to be "commemorative of the star
which appeared to guide the wise men of the
East to the place of our Saviour's nativity,"
and it is subsequently explained as hiero-
glyphically representing Divine Providence .
But the commemorative allusion to the Star
of Bethlehem seeming to some to be objec-
tionable, from its peculiar application to
the Christian religion, at the revision of
the lectures made in 1843 by the Baltimore
Convention, this explanation was omitted, and
the allusion to Divine Providence alone re-
tained .
In Hutchinson's system, the Blazing Star
is considered a symbol of Prudence . "It is
placed," says he, "in the centre, ever to be
present to the eye of the Mason, that his
heart may be attentive to her dictates and
steadfast in her laws ;-for Prudence is the
rule of all Virtues ; Prudence is the path which
leads to every degree of propriety ; Prudence is
the channel where self-approbation flows for
ever ; she leads us forth to worthy actions, and,

BLAZING
as a Blazing Star, enlighteneth us through the
dreary and darksome paths of this life ." 	(Sp .
of Mas ., ed . 1775, Lect . V ., p . 111 .) 	Hutchin-
son also adopted Dunckerley's allusion to the
Star of Bethlehem, but only as a secondary
symbolism .
In another series of lectures formerly in use
in America but which I believe is now aban-
doned, the blazing Star is said to be "emblem-
atical of that Prudence which ought to appear
conspicuous in the conduct of every Mason ;
and is more especially commemorative of the
star which- appeared in the east to guide the
wise men to Bethlehem, and proclaim the
birth and the presence of the Son of God ."
The Masons on the Continent of Europe,
speaking of the symbol, say : "It is no matter
whether the figure of which the Blazing Star
forms the centre be a square, triangle, or
circle, it still represents the sacred name of
God, as an universal sirit who enlivens our
hearts, who purifies our- reason, who increases
our knowledge, and who makes us wiser and
better men ."
And lastly, in the lectures revised b~y Dr .
Hemming and adopted by the Grand Lodge
of England at the union in 1813, and now
constituting the authorized lectures of that
jurisdiction, we find the following definition :
"The Blazing Star, or glory in the centre,
refers us to the sun, which enlightens the
earth with its refulgent rays, dispensing its
blessings to mankind at large, and giving
light and life to all things here below ."
Hence we find that at different times the
Blazing Star has been declared to be a symbol
of Divine Providence, of the Star of Bethlehem,
of Prudence, of Beauty, and of the Sun .
Before we can attempt to decide upon these
various opinions, and adopt the true significa-
tion, it is necessary to extend our investiga-
tions into the antiquity of the emblem, and
inquire what was the meaning given to it by
the nations who first established it as a sym-
bol .
Sabaism, or the worship of the stars, was
one of the earliest deviations from the true
system of religion . One of its causes was
the universally established doctrine among
the idolatrous nations of antiquity, that each
star was animated by the soul of a hero god,
who had once dwelt incarnate upon earth .
Hence, in the hieroglyphical system, the star
denoted a god . To this signification, allusion
is made by the prophet Amos, when he says
to the Israelites, while reproaching them for
their idolatrous habits : "But ye have borne
the tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your
images the star of your god, which ye made to
yourselves ." 	(Amos v . 26 .)
This idolatry was early learned by the
Israelites from their Egyptian taskmasters ;
and so unwilling were they to abandon it, that
Moses found it neceesA .ry strictly to forbid
the worship of anything "that is in heaven
above " ; notwithstanding which we find the
Jews repeatedly committing the sin which
had been so expressly forbidden . 	Saturn was
the star to whose worship they were more
BLAZING 	107
particularly addicted under the names of
Moloch and Chiun, already mentioned in the
passage quoted from Amos . 	The planet
Saturn was worshiped under the names of Mo-
loch, Malcom or Milcom by the Ammonites,
the Canaanites the Phoenicians, and the Car-
thaginians, and' under that of Chiun by the
Israelites in the desert . 	Saturn was wor-
shiped among the Egyptians under the name
of Raiphan, or, as it is called in the Septuagint,
Remphan . 	St . Stephen, quoting the passage
of Amos, says "ye took up the tabernacle of
Moloch and the star of your god Remphan ."
(Acts vii . 43 .)
Hale, in his Analysis of Chronology, says, in
alluding to this passage : "There is no direct
evidence that the Israelites worshipped the
dog-star in the wilderness, except this passage ;
but the indirect is very strong, drawn from
the general prohibition of the worship of the
sun, moon, and stars, to which they must have
been prone . And this was peculiarly an Egyp-
tian idolatry, where the dog-star was wor-
shiped, as notifying by his heliacal rising, or
emersion from the sun's ra s, the regular
commencement of the periodical inundation
of the Nile . 	And the Israelite sculptures at
the cemetery of Kibroth-Hattaavah, or graves
of lust in the neighborhood of Sinai, remark-
ably aliound in hieroglyphics of the dog-star,
represented as a human figure with a dog's
head . 	That they afterwards sacrificed to the
dog-star, there is express evidence in Josiah's
description of idolatry, 	where the Syriac
Mazaloth (improperly termed planets) de-
notes the dog-star ; in Arabic, Mazaroth ."
Fellows, in his Exposition of the Mysteries
(p . 7), says that this dog-star, the Anubis of
the Egyptians, is the Blazing Star of Masonry,
and supposing that the latter is a symbol of
Prudence, which indeed it was in some of the
ancient lectures, he goes on to remark : "What
connection can possibly exist between a star
and prude 	, except allegorically in reference
to the caution that was indicated to the
Egyptians by the first appearance of this star
which warned them of approaching danger .';
But it will hereafter be seen that he has totally
misapprehended the true signification of the
Masonic symbol . The work of Fellows, it
may be remarked, is an unsystematic com-
pilation of undigested learning ; but the
student who is searching for truth must care-
fully eschew all his deductions as to the genius
and spirit of Freemasonry .
Notwithstanding a few discrepancies that
may have occurred in the Masonic lectures,
as arranged at various periods and by different
authorities the concurrent testimony of the
ancient religions, and the hieroglyphic lan-
age, prove that the star was a symbol of
od . 	It was so used by the prophets of old
in their metaphorical style, and it has so been
generally adopted by Masonic instructors .
The application of the Blazing Star as an em-
blem of the Savior, has been made by those
writers who give a Christian explanation of
our emblems, and to the Christian Mason such
an application will not be objectionable . But

1 0 8 	BLAZING
those who desire to refrain from anything that
may tend to impair the tolerance of our sys-
tem, will be disposed to embrace a more
universal explanation, which may be received
alike by all the disciples of the Order, what-
ever may be their peculiar religious views .
Such persons will rather accept the expression
of Dr . Oliver, who, though much disposed to
give a Christian character to our Institution,
says "the great Architect of the Universe is
therefore symbolized in Freemasonry by the
Blazing Star, as the herald of our salvation,"
(Symb . Glory, p . 292 .)
Before concluding, a few words may be said
as to the form of the Masonic symbol . It is
not an heraldic star or eatoile, for that always
consists of six points, while the Masonic star
is made with five points . This, perhaps, was
with some involuntary allusion to the five
Points of Fellowship . But the error has been
committed in all our modern Tracing Boards
of making the star with straight points which
form, of course, does not represent a lazing
star . 	Guillim (Disp . of Herald) says : "All
stars should be made with waved points
because our eyes tremble at beholding them,' #
In the early Tracing Board already referred
to, the star with five straight points is super-
imposed upon another of five waving points .
But the latter are now abandoned, and we
have in the representations of the present day
the incongruous symbol of a blazing star with
five straight points . In the center of the star
there was always placed the letter G, which,
like the Hebrew y o d, was a recognized symbol
of God, and thus the symbolic reference of the
Blazing Star to Divine Providence is greatly
strengthened .
Blazing Star, Order of tbe . The Baron
Tschoudy was the author of a work entitled
The Blazing Star, 	(See T'schoudy .) 	On the
principles inculcated in this work, he estab-
lished, says Thory (Acta Latomerum, i ., 94), at
Paris, in 1766, an order called "The Order of
the Blazing Star," which consisted of degrees
of chivalry ascending to the Crusades, after
the Templar system of Ramsay . It never,
however, assumed the prominent position of
an active rite .
Blesington, Earl of . . Grand Master of
Ireland, 1738-9 ; also of the English Grand
Lodge of the "Ancients," 1756-63 .
Blessing . 	See Benedictian .
Blind . 	A blind man cannot be initiated
into Masonry under the operation of the old
regulation, which requires physical perfection
in a candidate .
Blindness . 	Physical blindness in Ma-
sonry, as in the language of the Scriptures, is
symbolic of the deprivation of moral and
intellectual light . It is equivalent to the
darkness of theAncient Mysteries in which the
neophytes were enshrouded for periods vary-
ing from a few hours to many days . The
Masonic candidate, therefore, represents one
immersed in intellectual darkness, groping in
the search for that Divine light and truth
which are the objects of a Mason's labor . (See
Darkness .)
BLUE
Blow . The three blows given to the
Builder, according to the legend of the Third
Degree, have been differently interpreted as
symbols in the different systems of Masonry,
but always with some reference to adverse or
malignant influences exercised on humanity,
of whom Hiram is considered as the type .
Thus, in the symbolic degrees of Ancient
Craft Masonry, the three blows are said to be
typical of the trials and temptations to which
man is subjected in youth and manhood, and
to death, whose victim he becomes in old age .
Hence the three Assassins are the three stages
of human life . In the high degrees, such as
the Kadoshes, which are founded on the
Templar system of Ramsay, the reference is
naturally made to the destruction of the Order,
which was effected by the combined influences
of Tyranny, Superstition, and Ignorance,
which are therefore symbolized by the three
blows ; while the three Assassins are also said
sometimes to be represented by Squire de
Floreau, Naffodei, and the Prior of Mont-
faucon, the three perjurers who swore away
the lives of De Molay and his Knights, In
the astronomical theory of freemasonry,
which makes it a modern modification of the
ancient sun-worship, a theory advanced by
Ragon, the three blows are symbolic of the
destructive influences of the three winter
months, by which Hiram, or the Sun, is shorn
of bis vivifying power . Des Etangs has
generalized the Templar theory, and, suppos-
ing Hiram to be the symbol of eternal reason,
interprets the blows as the attacks of those
vices which deprave and finally destroy hu-
manity . However interpreted for a special
theory, Hiram the Builder always represents,
in the science of Masonic symbolism, the
principle of good ; and then the three blows are
the contending principles of evil .
Blue . This is emphatically the odor of
Masonry . It is the appropriate tincture of
the Ancient Craft degrees . It is to the Mason
a symbol of universal friendship and benev- -
olenoe, because, as it is the color of the vault
of heaven, which embraces and covers the
whole globe, we are thus reminded that in the
breast of every brother these virtues should be
equally as extensive . It is therefore the only
odor, except white, which should be used in a
Master's Lodge . Decorations of any other
color would be highly inappropriate .
Among the religious institutions of the Jews,
blue was an important color . The robe of the
high priest's ephod, the ribbon for his breast-
plate, and for the plate of the miter, were to he
blue . The people were directed to wear a
ribbon of this color above the fringe of their
garments ; and it was the color of one of the
veils of the tabernacle, where, Josephua says,
it represented the element of air . The Hebrew
word used on these occasions to designate the
color blue is M'?SY1, tekelef; and this word
seems to have a singular reference to the sym-
bolic character of the color, for it is derived
from a root signifying perfeetion ; now it is
well known that, among the ancients, initia-
tion into the mysteries and perfection were

BLUE
synonymous terms ; and hence the appropriate
color of the greatest of all the systems of
initiation may well be designated by a word
which also signifies perfection .
This color also held a prominent position in
the symbolism of the Gentile nations of an-
tiquity . Among the Druids, blue was the
symbol of truth, and the candidate, in the
initiation into the sacred rites of Druidism,
was invested with a robe composed of the
three colors, white, blue, and green .
The Egyptians esteemed blue as a sacred
color, and the body of Amun, the principal
god of their theogony, was painted light blue,
to imitate, as Wilkinson remarks, "his pecul-
iarly exalted and heavenly nature ."
The ancient Babylonians clothed their idols
in blue, as we learn from the prophet Jeremiah .
The Chinese, in their mystical philosophy,
represented blue as the symbol of the Deity,
because, being, as they say, compounded of
black and red, this color is a fit representation
of the obscure and brilliant, the male and
female, or active and passive principles .
The Hindus assert that their god, Vishnu,
was represented of a celestial blue, thus in-
dicating that wisdom emanating from God
was to be symbolized by this color .
Among the medieval Christians blue was
sometimes considered as an emblem of im-
mortality, as red was of the Divine love .
Portal says that blue was the symbol of per-
fection, hope, and constancy . "The color of
the celebrated dome, azure," says Weale, in
his treatise on Symbolic Colors, "was in divine
language the symbol of eternal truth ; in con-
secrated language, of immortality ; and in
profane language, of fidelity ."
Besides the three degrees of Ancient Craft
Masonry, of which blue is the appropriate
color, this tincture is also to be found in
several other degrees, especially of the Scottish
Rite, where it bears various symbolic significa-
tion, ; all, however, more or less related to its
original character as representing universal
friendship and benevolence .
In the degree of Grand Pontiff, the Nine-
teenth of the Scottish Rite, it is the pre-
dominating color, and is there said to be
symbolic of the mildness, fidelity, and gentle-
ness which ought to be the characteristics
of every true and faithful brother .
In the degree of Grand Master of all Sym-
bolic Lodges, the blue and yellow, which are
its appropriate colors, are said to refer to the
appearance of Jehovah to Moses on Mount
Sinai in clouds of azure and gold, and hence in
this degree the color is rather an historical
than a moral symbol .
The blue color of the tunic and apron,
which constitutes a part of the investiture of
a Prince of the Tabernacle, or Twenty-fourth
Degree in the Scottish Rite alludes to the
whole symbolic character of the degree, whose
teachings refer to our removal from this
tabernacle of clay to "that house not made
with hands, eternal in the heavens ." The
blue in this degree is, therefore, a symbol of
heaven, the seat of our celestial tabernacle .
BLUE 	109
Blue Blanket . The Lodge of Journey-
men, in the city of Edinburgh, is in possession
of a blue blanket, which is used as a banner
in Masonic processions . The history of it is
thus given in the London Magazine :
"A number of Scotch mechanics followed
Allan, Lord Steward of Scotland, to the holy
wars in Palestine, and took with them a
banner, on which were inscribed the following
words from the 51st Psalm, viz . : `In bona
voluntate tua edificentur muri Hierosolymse .'
Fighting under the banner, these valiant
Scotchmen were present at the capture of
Jerusalem, and other towns in the Holy Land ;
and, on their return to their own country
they deposited the banner which they styled
`The Banner of the Holy Ghost,' at the altar of
St . Eloi, the patron saint of the Edinburgh
Tradesmen, in the church of St . Giles . It
was occasionally unfurled, or worn as a mantle
by the representatives of the trades in the
courtly and religious pageants that in former
times were of frequent occurrence in the
Scottish capital . In 1482, James III ., in con-
sequence of the assistance which be had re-
ceived from the Craftsmen of Edinburgh, in
delivering him from the castle in which he was
kept a prisoner, and paying a debt of 6 000
Marks which he had contracted in mating
preparations for the marriage of his son, the
Duke of Rothsay, to Cecil, daughter of
Edward IV ., of England, conferred on the
good town several valuable privileges, and
renewed to the Craftsmen their favorite
banner of `The Blue Blanket .' James's
queen, Margaret of Denmark to show her
gratitude and respect to the Grafts, painted
on the banner, with her own hands, a St .
Andrew's cross, a crown, a thistle, and a
hammer, with the following inscription :
`Fear God and honor the king ; grant him a
long life and a prospe~rous reign, and we shall
ever pray to be faithful for the defence of his
sacred majesty's royal person till death .'
The king decreed that in all time comin 	this
fl 	should be the standard of the Crafts
wi ' burgh, and that it should be unfurled
in defence of their own rights, and in pro-
tection of their sovereign . The privilege of
displaying it at the Masonic procession was
granted to the journeymen, in consequence of
their original connection with the Masons of
Mary's Chapel, one of the fourteen incor-
porated trades of the city .
"'The Blue Blanket was long in a very
tattered condition ; but some years ago it was
repaired by lining it with blue silk, so that it
can be exposed without subjecting it to much
injury . "
An interesting little book was published with
this title in 1722 and later editions describing
the Operative Companies of Edinburgh .
Blue Degrees . 	The first three degrees of
Freemasonry are so called from the blue color
which is peculiar to them .
Blue Lodge . A Symbolic Lodge, in which
the first three degrees of Masonry are con-
ferred, is so called from the color of its decora-
tions .

1 1 0 	BLUE
Blue Masonry . 	The degrees of Entered
Apprentice, Fellow-Craft, and Master Mason
are called Blue Masonry .
Blue Master . 	In some of the high degrees,
these words are used to designate a Master
Mason .
Board of General Purposes . 	An organi-
zation attached to the Grand Lode of Eng-
land, consisting of the Grand Master, Pro
Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, the
Grand Wardens of the year, the Grand
Treasurer, the Grand Registrar, the Deputy
Grand Registrar a President, Past Presidents,
the President of the Board of Benevolence,
the Grand Director of Ceremonies, and twen-
ty-four other members . The President and
six of the twenty-four members are annually
nominated by the Grand Master, and the
remaining eighteen are elected by the Grand
Lodge from the Masters and Past Masters of
the Lodges . This board has authority to
hear and determine all subjects of Masonic
complaints, or irregularity respecting Lodges
or individual Masons, when regularly brought
before it, and generally to take cognizance of
all matters relating to the' Craft .
Board of Belief . 	See Relief, Board of .
Boaz . 	The name of the left hand (or
north) pillar that stood at the porch of King
Solomon's Temple . It is derived from the
Hebrew ] b, "in," and ty oaz, "strength,"
and signifies "in strength!' (See Pillars of
the Porch .)
Bochim . 	(O"», weepings .) A password
in the Order of Ishmael . An angel spoke to
Hagar as she wept at the well when in the
wilderness with her son Ishmael . The angel
is looked upon as a spiritual being, possibly
the Great Angel of the Covenant, the Michael
who appeared to Moses in the burning bush,
or the Joshua, the captain of the hosts of Je-
hovah .
Bode, 	Johann Joachim Christoph .
Born in Brunswick, 16th of January, 1730 .
One of the most distinguished Masons of his
time . In his youth he was a professional
musician, but in 1757 he established himself
at Hamburg as a bookseller, and was in-
itiated into the Masonic Order . He obtained
much reputation by the translation of Sterne's
Sentimental Journey and Tristram Shandy, of
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield ; Smollett's
Humphrey Clinker ; and of Fielding's Tom
Jones, from the English ; and of Montaigne's
works from the French . To Masonic litera-
ture he made many valuable contributions ;
among others, he translated from the French
Bonneville's celebrated work entitled Les
Jesuites chasse s de la Magonnerie et leur poi-
gnard brines par les Masons, which contains a
comparison of Scottish Masonry with the
Templarism of the fourteenth century . Bode
was at one time a zealous promoter of the Rite
of Strict Observance, but afterward became
one of its most active opponents . In 1790
he joined the Order of the Illuminati obtain-
ing the highest degree in its second class, and
at the Congress of Wilhelmsbad he advo-
cated the opinions of Weishaupt . No man of
BOHEMIA
his day was better versed than he in the his-
tory of Freemasonry or possessed a more val-
uable and extensive library ; no one was more
diligent in increasing his stock of Masonic
knowledge, or more anxious to avail himself
of the rarest sources of learning . Hence, he
has always held an exalted position among the
Masonic scholars of Germany . The theory
which he had conceived on the origin of Free-
masonry-a theory, however, which the in-
vestigations of subsequent historians have
proved to be untenable-was, that the Order
was invented by the Jesuits, in the seven-
teenth century, as an instrument for the re-
establishment of the Roman Church in Eng-
land, covering it for their own purposes under
the mantle of Templarism . 	Bode died at
Weimar on the 13th of December, 1793 .
Boeber, Johann . 	A Royal Councilor of
State and Director of the School of Cadets at
St . Petersburg during the reign of Alexander
I . 	In 1805 he induced the emperor to revoke
the edicts made by Paul I . and himself against
the Freemasons . His representations of the
true character of the Institution induced the
emperor to seek and obtain initiation . Boeber
may be considered as the reviver of Masonry
in the Russian dominions, and was Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge from 1811 to 1814 .
Boehmen, Jacob . 	The most celebrated
of the Mystics of the sixteenth and seven-
teenth centuries, born near Gorlitz, in 1575
and died in 1624 . His system attracted, and
continued to attract long after his death,
many disciples in Germany . Among these, in
time, were several Freemasons, who sought
to incorporate the mystical dogmas of their
founder with the teachings of Freemasonry,
so as to make the Lodges merely schools of
theosophy . Indeed, the Theosophic Rites of
Freemasonry, which prevailed to a great ex-
tent about the middle of the last century in
Germany and France were indebted for
most of their ideas to tie mysticism of Jacob
Boehmen .
Bohemann, Karl Adolf Anderson . Born
in 1770, at J6nkbping in the south of Sweden .
H was a very zealous member of the Order of
Asiatic Brethren, and was an active promul-
gator of the high degrees . Invited to Sweden,
in 1802, by the Duke of Sudermania, who was
an ardent inquirer into Masonic science, he
was appointed Court Secretary . He attempted
to introduce his system of high degrees into
the kingdom, but having been detected in the
effort to intermingle revolutionary schemes
with his high degrees, he was first imprisoned
and then banished from the country, his so-
ciety being interdicted . He returned to Ger-
many, but is not heard of after 1815, when he
published at Pyrmont a justification of him-
self . Findel (Hist ., p . 560) calls him an im-
postor, but he seems rather to have been a
Masonic fanatic, who was ignorant of or had
forgotten the wide difference between Free-
masonry and political intrigue .
Bohemia . 	A Lodge named "The Three
Stars " is said to have been established at
Prague in 1726, and other Lodges were subse-

BOHMANN
quently constituted in Bohemia, but in conse-
quence of the French Revolution they were
closed in 1793 by the Austrian Government .
Bohmann, F . Otto . 	A merchant in
Stockholm (1695-1767), who left a legacy of
100 000 Thalers to the Asylum for the Orphans
of I'reemasons that was founded in Stock-
holm in 1753 . 	A medal wa 	struck in his
honor in 1768 . 	(Marvin's Masonic Medals,
p . 172 .) 	[E . L . H .]
Bombay . 	The earliest Lodge in Bombay
was established in 1758, followed by another
in 1798, and by others until in 1861 ri District
Grand Lodge of Bombay was established by
the Grand Lodge of England, which has 33
Lodges under it . 	There is also a District
Grand Chapter with 13 subordinate Chapters ;
and 9 Lodges owing allegiance to the Grand
Lodge of Scotland . 	[E . L . H .]
Bonalm . 	The word is really an incorrect
transliteration of the Hebrew word for build-
ers, which should be "Bonim" ; the construct
form of which ("Bonai ") is used in 1 Kings
v . 18 to designate a portion of the workmen
on the Temple : "And Solomon's builders and
Hiram's builders did hew them ." Oliver, in
his Dictionary and in his Landmarks (i ., 402),
gives a mythical account of them as Fellow-
Crafts, divided into Lodges by King Solo-
mon, but, by a grammatical blunder, he calls
them Benai, substituting the Hebrew construct
for the absolute case, and changing the parti-
cipial o into e . The Bonaim seem to be dis-
tinguished by the author of the Book of Kings,
from the 6ibalim, and the translators of the
authorized version have called the former
builders and the latter stone-squarers . 	It is
probable that the Bonaim were an order of
workmen inferior to the Gibalim . Anderson,
in both of his editions of the Book of Consti-
tutions, blunders grammatically, like Oliver,
and calls them Bonai, saying that they were
"setters, layers, or builders, or light Fellow
Crafts, in number 80,000 ." This idea seems to
have been perpetuated in the modern rituals .
From this construct plural form "Bonai "
some one has formed the slightly incorrect
form "Bonaim ." 	[E . L . H .]
Bondman . 	In the fourth article of the
Halliwell or Regius MS ., which is the earliest
Masonic document known, it is said that the
Master shall take good care that he make no
bondman an apprentice, or, as it is in the
original language :
"The fourthe artycul thys moste be,
That the Mayster hymn wel be-se,
That he no bondemon prentys make ."
The regulation is repeated in all the subse-
quent regulations, and is still in force . (See
Freeborn)
Bone . This word, which is now corruptly
pronounced in one syllable, is the Hebrew
word boneh, 111], "builder," from the verb
banah, 1]7, "to build ." It was peculiarly ap-
plied, as an epithet, to Hiram Abif, who super-
intended the construction of the Temple as its
chief builder . Master Masons will recognize
it as the terminal portion of a significant word .
BOOK 	lfl
Its true pronunciation would be, in English
letters, bonay ; but the corruption into one
syllable as bone has become too universal ever
to be corrected .
Bone Box . 	In the early lectures of the last
century, now obsolete, we find the following
catechism :
" Q . Have you any key to the secrets of a
Mason?
"A . Yes .
"Q . Where do you keep it?
" A . In a bone box that neither opens nor
shuts but with ivory keys ."
The bone box is the mouth, the ivory keys
the teeth . 	And the key to the secrets is after-
ward said to be the tongue . 	These questions
were simply used as tests, and were subse-
quently varied . In a later lecture it is called
the "bone-bone box ."
Bonneville, Chevalier de . On the 24th
of November, 1754, he founded the Chapter
of the high degrees known as the Chapter of
Clermont . 	All the authorities assert this ex-
cept Rebold (Hist . de trois G. L ., p . 46), who
says that he was not its founder but only the
propagator of its degrees .
Bonneville, Nicolas de . 	A bookseller
and man of letters, born at Evreux, in France,
March 13,1760 . 	He was the author of a work,
published in 1788, entitled Les Jesuites chasses
de la Magonnerie et leer poignard brisk par les
Masons, divided into two parts, of the first
of which the subtitle was La Maconnerie
ecossaise comparee avec les trois professions et le
Secret des Templiers du 14e Sieele ; and of the
second, Mgmeti des quatre voeux de la Com-
pagnie de S . Ignace, et desqu¢tre grades de la
Mac nnerie de S . Je n . 	He also translated
into French, Thoma, Paine's Essay on the
Origin of Freemasonry ; a work, by the way,
which was hardly worth the trouble of trans-
lation . De B nneville had an exalted idea of
the difficulties attendant upon writing a his-
tory of Freemasonry, for he says that, to com-
pose such a work, supported by dates and au-
thentic facts, it would require a period equal
to ten times the age of man ; a statement
which, although exaggerated, undoubtedly
contains an element of truth . 	His Masonic
theory was that the Jesuits had introduced
into the symbolic degrees the history of the
life and death of the Templars, and the doc-
trine of vengeance for the political and relig-
ious crime of their destruction ; and that they
had imposed upon four of the higher degrees
the four vows of their congregation . De
Bonneville was imprisoned as a Girondist in
1793 . He was the author of a History of Mod-
ern Europe, in 3 vols ., published in 1792 . He
died in 1828 .
Book of Charges . 	There seems, if we
may judge from the references in the old rec-
ords of Masonry, to have formerly existed a
book under this title, containing the Charges
of the Craft ; equivalent, probably, to the
Book of Constitutions . 	Thus the Matthew
Cooke MS . f the first half of tke fifteenth cen-
tury (1 . 534) speaks of "othere chargys mo
that ben wryten in the Boke of Chargys . "

1 1 2 	BOOK
Book of Constitutions . 	The Book of
Constitutions is that work in which is con-
tained the rules and regulations adopted for
the government of the Fraternity of Free-
masons . Undoubtedly, a society so orderly
and systematic must always have been gov-
erned by a prescribed code of laws ; but, in
the lapse of ages, the precise regulations which
were adopted for the direction of the Craft in
ancient times have been lost . The earliest
record that we have of any such Constitutions
is in a manuscript, first quoted, in 1723, by
Anderson (Constitutions, 1723, pp . 32, 33),
which he said was written in the reign of Ed-
ward IV . Preston (p 182, ed . 1788) quotes the
same record, and adds, that "it is said to have
been in the possession of the famous Elias
Ashmole, and unfortunately destroyed," a
statement which had not been previously
made by Anderson . To Anderson, therefore,
we must look in our estimation of the authen-
ticity of this document ; and that we cannot
too much rely upon his accuracy as a tran-
scriber is apparent, not only from the in-
ternal evidence of style, but also from the
fact that he made important alterations in
his copy of it in his edition of 1738 . Such
as it is, however, it contains the following
particulars •
"Though the ancient records of the Brother-
hood in England were many of them destroyed
or lost in the wars of the Saxons and Danes,
yet King Athelstan (the grandson of King
Alfrede the Great, a mighty Architect), the
first anointed king of England, and who trans-
lated the Holy Bible into the Saxon tongue
(A .n . 930), when he had brought the land
into Rest and Peace, built many great works,
and encourag'd many Masons from France,
who were appointed Overseers thereof, and
brought with them the Charges and Regu-
lations of the Lodges preserv'd since the
Roman times, who also prevail'd with the
King to improve the Constitution of the Eng-
lish Lodges according to the foreign Model,
and to increase the Wages of Working Masons .
"The said king's youngest son, Prince
Edwin, being taught Masonry, and taking
upon him the Charges of a Master Mason, for
the love he had to the said Craft and the hon-
ourable Principles whereon it is grounded,
purchased a free charter of King Athelstan his
Father, for the Masons having a Correction
among themselves (as it was anciently ex-
press'd), or a Freedom and Power to regulate
themselves, to amend what might happen
amiss, and to hold a yearly Communication
and General Assembly .
"Accordingly, Prince Edwin summoned all
the Masons in the Realm to meet him in a
Congregation at York, who came and com-
posed a General Lodge, of which he was Grand
Master ; and having brought with them all
the Writings and Records extant, some in
Greek, some in Latin, some in French, and
other languages, from the Contents thereof
that Assembly did frame the Constitution and
Charges of an En$lish Lodge, and made a law
to preserve and obserpe the same in all time
BOOK
coming, and ordain'd good Pay for Working
Masons, &c ."
Other records have from time to time been
discovered, most of them recently, which
prove beyond all doubt that the Fraternity of
Freemasons was, at least in the fourteenth,
fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth centuries,
in possession of manuscript Constitutions con-
tain mg the rules and regulations of the Craft .
In the year 1717, Freemasonry which had
somewhat fallen into decay in tie south of
England, was revived by the organization of
the Grand Lodge at London ; and in the next
year, the Grand Master having desired, says
Anderson, "any brethren to bring to the
Grand Lodge any old writings and records
concerning Masons and Masonry, in order to
show the usages of ancient times, several old
copies of the Gothic Constitutions were
produced and collated ." (Constitutions, 1738,
p . 110 .)
But these Constitutions having been found
to be very erroneous and defective, probably
from carelessness or ignorance in their fre-
quent transcription, in September, 1721, the
Duke of Montagu, who was then Grand Mas-
ter, ordered Bro . James Anderson to digest
them "in a new and better method ." 	(Ibid .,
p . 113 .)
Anderson having accordingly accomplished
the important task that had been assigned
him, in December of the same year a com-
mittee, consisting of fourteen learned Breth-
ren, was appointed to examine the book ; and,
in the March communication of the sub-
sequent year, having reported their approba-
tion of it, it was, after some amendments,
adopted by the Grand Lodge and published,
in 1723, under the title of h e Constitutions
of the Freemasons, containing the History,
Charges, Regulations, etc ., of that Most Ancient
and Right Worshipful Fraternity . For the use
of the Lodges .
A second edition was published in 1738
under the superintendence of a committee of
GrandOfficers . (Ibid .,p . 133 .) But this edition
contained so many alterations, interpolations,
and omissions of the Charges and Regulations
as they appeared in the first, as to show the
most reprehensible inaccuracy in its compo-
sition, and to render it utterly worthless ex-
cept as a literary curiosity . It does not seem
to have been very popular, for the printers, to
complete their sales, were compelled to com-
mit a fraud, and to present what they pre-
tended to be a new edition in 1746, but which
was really only the edition of 1738, with a new
title-page neatly pasted in, the old one being
canceled .
In 1754, Bro . Jonathan Scott presented a
memorial to the Grand Lodge, "showing the
necessity of a new edition of the Book of Con-
stitutions ." It was then ordered that the book
"should be revised, and necessary alterations
and additions made consistent with the laws
and rules of Masonry" ; all of which would
seem to show the dissatisfaction of the Fra-
ternity with the errors of the second edition .
Accordingly, a third edition was published is

CIIAPTER %Isf) CRA\D 	PURE m"RANDELoci :
D' A G L E ITRRF

BOOK
1756, under the editorship of the Rev . John
Entick . 	The fourth edition, preared by a
committee, was published in 1767 . In 1'769,
G . Kearsly of London, published an unau-
thorized edition of the 1767 issue, with an
appendix to 1769 ; this was also published by
Thomas Wilkinson in Dublin in the same year,
with several curious plates ; both issues are
now very scarce . 	And an authorized sup-
plement appeared in 1776 .
In 1784, John Noorthouck_published by
authority the fifth edition . 	This was well
printed in quarto, with numerous notes, and
is considered the most valuable edition ; it is
the last to contain the Historical Introduction .
After the union of the two rival Grand
Lodges of England (see Ancient Masons) in
1813, the sixth edition was issued in 1815
edited by Bro . William Williams, Prov . Grand
Master for Dorsetshire ; the seventh appeared
in 1819, being the last in- quarto ; and the
eighth in 1827 ; these were called 	the
"Second Part," and contained only the An-
cient Charges and the General Regulations .
The ninth edition of 1841 contained no refer-
ence to the First or Historical Part, and may
be regarded as the first of the present issue
in octavo with the plates of jewels at the end .
Numerous editions have since been issued .
In the early days of the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land in all processions the Book of Constitu-
tions was carried on a cushion by the Master of
the Senior Lodge (Constitutions 1738, pp 117,
126), but this was altered at the time of the
union and it is provided in the Constitutions
of 1815 and in the subsequent issues that the
Book of Constitutions on a cushion shall be car-
ried by the Grand Secretary . 	L . H .)
Book of Constitutions Guarded by the
Tiler's Sword . 	An emblem painted on the
Master's carpet and intended to admonish
the Mason that lie should be guarded in all his
words and actions preserving unsullied the
Masonic virtues of silence and circumspec-
tion . Such is Webb's definition of the emblem
(Freemasons' Monitor, ed . 1818, p . 69), which is
a very modern one, and I am inclined to think
was introduced by that lecturer . The inter-
pretation of Webb is a very unsatisfactory one .
The Book of Constitutions is rather the sym-
bol of constituted law than of silence and cir-
cumspection, and when guarded by the Tiler's
sword it would seem properly to symbolize
regard for and obedience to law, a prominent
Masonic duty .
Book of Gold . 	In the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite, the book in which the
transactions, statutes, decrees, balusters, and
protocols of the Supreme Council or a Grand
onsistory are contained .
Book of the Law . 	The Holy Bible, which
is always open in a Lodge as a symbol that its
light should be diffused among the Brethren .
The passages at which it is opened differ in
the different degrees . (See Scriptures, Reading
of the .)
Masonically the Book of the Law is that
sacred book which is believed by the Mason
of any particular religion to contain the re-
BOOK 	113
vealed will of God ; although, technically,
among the Jews the Torah, or Book of the
Law means only the Pentateuch or five books
of loses . Thus, to the Christian Mason the
Book of the Law is the Old and New Testa-
ments ; to the Jew, the Old Testament ; to the
Mussulman, the Koran ; to the Brahman, the
Vedas ; and to the Parsee, the Zendavesta .
The Book of the Law is an important sym-
bol in the Royal Arch Degree, concerning
which there was a tradition among the Jews
that the Book of the Law was lost during the
captivity, and that it was among the treasures
discovered during the building of the second
Temple . 	The same opinion was entertained
by the early Christian fathers, such, for in-
stance, as Iennus, Tertullian, and Clemens
Alexandrinus ; "for," says Prideaux, "they
(the Christian fathers) hold that all the Scrip-
tures were lost and destroyed in the Babylon-
ish captivity, and that Ezra restored them all
again by Divine revelation ." The truth of the
tradition is very generally denied by Biblical
scholars, who attribute its origin to the fact
that Ezra collected together the copies of the
law expurgated them of the errors which
had crept into them during the captivity,
and arranged a new and correct edition . 	But
the truth or falsity of the legend does not
affect the Masonic symbolism . 	The Book of
the Law is the will of God, which, lost to us in
our darkness, must be recovered as precedent
to our learning what is TRUTH . As captives
to error truth is lost to us ; when freedom is
restored, the first reward will be its discovery .
Book of Mormon . 	This sacred book of
the Mormons was first published in 1830 by
Joseph Smith, who claimed to have translated
it from gold plates which he had found under
Divine guidance secreted in a stone box . The
number of Mormons is estimated at about
150,000 in the United States, and 50,000 in
other countries . 	The seat of their church is
at Salt Lake, Utah .
Book of the Dead . By some translated the
Book of the Master, containing the ancient
Egyptian philosophy as to death and the res-
urrection . 	A portion of these sacred writings
was invariably buried with the dead . The
Book in facsimile has been published by Dr .
Lepsius, and translated by Dr . Birch . 	The
myth of the "Judgment of Amenti " forms a
part of the Book of the Dead, and shadows
forth the verities and judgments of the un-
seen world .
The Amenti was the Place of Judgment of
the Dead, situated in the West, where Osiris
was presumed to be buried . There were forty-
two assessors of the amount of sin committed,
who sat in judgment, and before whom the
adjudged passed in succession .
There seems to be a tie which binds Free-
masonry to the noblest of the cults and mys-
teries of antiquity . The most striking exponent
of the doctrines and language of the Egyp-
tian Mysteries of Osiris is this Book of the
Dead or Ritual of the Underworld, or Egyp-
tian bible of 165 chapters, the Egyptian title
of which was The Manifestation to Light,

114 	BOOK
or the Book Revealing Light to the Soul . Great
dependence was had, as to the immediate
attainment of celestial happiness, upon the
human knowledge of this wonderful Book,
especially of the principal chapters . On a
sarcophagus of the eleventh dynasty (chro-
nology of Prof . Lepsius, say B .C . 2420) is this
inscription : "He who knows this book is one
who, in the day of the resurrection of the under-
world, arises and enters in ; but if he does not
know this chapter, he does not enter in so soon
as he arises ." The conclusion of the first chap-
ter says : "If a man knows this book thorough-
ly, and has it inscribed upon his sarcophagus, he
will be manifested in the day in all the forms
that he may desire, and entering into his
abode will not be turned back " (Tiele's Hist .
Egypttan Rel ., p . 25 .)
The Egyptian belief was that portions of
the Book were written by the finger of Thoth,
back in the mist of tune, B .C . 3000 . The
one hundred and twenty-fifth chapter de-
scribes the last judgment . The oldest pre-
served papyrus is of the eighteenth dynasty
(B .c . 1591, Lep .) . The most perfect copy of
this Book is in the Turin Museum, where it
covers one side of the walls, in four pieces,
300 feet in length .
The following extract is from the first chap-
ter :
"Says Thot to Osiris, King of Eternity, I
am the great God in the divine boat ; I fight
for tbee ; I am one of the divine chiefs who are
the TRUE LIVING WORD of Osiris . I am Thot,
who makes to be real the word of Horus
against his enemies . The word of Osiris
against his enemies made truth in Thot, and
the order is executed by Thot . I am with
Horns on the day of celebrating the festival of
Osiris, the good Being, whose Word is truth ;
I make offerings to Ra (the Sun) ; I am a sim-
ple priest in the underworld, anointing in
Abydos, elevating to higher degrees of initia-
tion ; I am pro het in Abydos on the day of
opening or upheaving the earth . I behold
the mysteries of the door of the underworld ;
I direct the ceremonies of Mendes ; I am the
assistant in the exercise of their functions ;
I A s GRAND MASTER OF THE CRAFrSZeEN
WHO SET UP THE SACRED ARCH FOR A SUP-
PORT ." 	(See Truth .)
Book of the Fraternity of Stonemasons .
Some years ago, a manuscript was discovered
in the archives of the city of Cologne bearing
the title of Bruderschaftsbuch der Steinmetzen,
with records going back to the year 1396 .
Steinbrenner ( 	. andEarly Hist . of Masonry,
p . 104) says : "It fully confirms the conclusions
to be derived from the German Constitutions,
and those of the English and Scotch Masons,
and conclusively proves the inauthenticity of
the celebrated Carter of Cologne ."
Books, Anti-Masonic . 	See Anti-Masonic
Books .
Border, Tesselated . See Tesselated Border .
Bosonlen, The 	(or Bossonius) . 	The
Fourth Degree of the African Architects also
called the "Christian Philosopher ." (Thory,
A . L ., i ., 297 .)
BRAHMANISM
Boswell, John (of Auchinleck) . A Scottish
laird of the family of the biographer of Dr .
Johnson . His appearance in the Lodge of
Edinburgh at a meeting held at Holyrood in
June, 1600, affords the earliest authentic in-
stance of a person being a member of the Ma-
sonic Fraternity who was not an architect or
builder by profession . He signed his name
and made his mark as did the Operatives .
Bourn . 	A limit or boundary ; a word fa-
miliar to the Mason in the Monitorial Instruc-
tions of the Fellow-Craft's Degree, where he is
directed to remember that we are traveling
upon the level of time to that undiscovered
country from whose bourn no traveler re-
turns ; and to the reader of Shakespeare, from
whom the expression is borrowed, in the beau-
tiful soliloquy of Hamlet :
"Who would fardels bear,
To grunt and sweat under a weary life ;
But that the dread of something after death-
The undiscovered country, from whose bourn
No traveller returns-puzzles the will ."
Act III ., Scene 1 .
Box of Fraternal Assistance . 	A box of
convenient shape and size under the charge of
the Hospitaler or Almoner, in the Modern
French and A . A . Scottish Rites, wherein is
collected the obligatory contributions of the
duly assembled Brethren at every convocation,
which collections can only be used for secret
charitable purposes, first among the members,
but if not there required, among worthy pro-
fane ; the Master and the Hospitaler being
the only ones cognizant of the name of the
beneficiary, together with the brother who
suggests an individual in need of the assist-
ance .
Box-Master . 	In the Lodges of Scotland
the Treasurer was formerly sometimes so
called . Thus, in the minutes of the Lodge of
Journeymen Masons of Edinburgh, it was re-
solved, on December 27, 1726, that the Warden
be instructed "to uplift and receive for the use
of the society all such sum or sums of money
which are due and indebted to them or their
former Box-masters or his predecessors in
office ."
Boys' School . 	The Royal Masonic In-
stitution for Boys is a charity of the Masons
of England . It was founded in the year 1798,
for clothing and educating the sons of indigent
and deceased Brethren, according to the situ-
ation in life they are most probably destined to
occupy, and inculcating such religious instruc-
tion as may be conformable to the tenets of
their parents and ultimately apprenticing
them to suitZle trades . It is still existing in
a flourishing condition . Similar schools have
been established by the Masons of France
and Germany .
Brahmanism . 	The religious system prac-
tised by the Hindus . It presents a profound
.and spiritual philosophy, strangely blended
with the basest superstitions . The Veda is
the Brahmanical Book of the Law, although
the older hymns springing out of the primitive
Aryan religion have a date far anterior to that

BRANT
of comparatively modern Brahmanism . 	The
"Laws of Menu " are really the text-book of
Brahmanism ; yet in the Vedic hymns we find
the expression of that religious thought that
has been adopted by the Brahmans and the
rest of the modern Hindus . The learned Brah-
mans have an esoteric faith, in which they
recognize and adore one God without form or
quality, eternal, unchangeable and occupying
all space ; but confining this hidden doctrine
to their interior schools, they teach, for the
multitude, an open or esoteric worship, in
which the incomprehensible attributes of the
supreme and purely spiritual God are invested
with sensible and even human forms . 	In the
Vedic hymns all the powers of nature are per-
sonified, and become the objects of worship,
thus leading to an apparent polytheism . But,
as Mr . J . F . Clarke (Ten Great Religions, p . 90)
remarks, "behind this incipient polytheism
lurks the original monotheism ; for each of
these gods, in turn, becomes the Supreme
Bein .' 	And Max Miiller says (Chips, i ., 2)
that `it would be easy to find in the numerous
hymns of the Veda passages in which almost
every important deity is represented as su-
preme and absolute." This most ancient
re li ion believed in by one-seventh of the
word's population that fountain from which
has flowed so much of the stream of modern
religious thought, abounding in mystical cere-
monies and ritual prescriptions, worshiping,
as the Lord of all, "the source of golden light, '
having its ineffable name, its solemn methods
of initiation, and its symbolic rites-is well
worth the serious study of the Masonic scholar,
because in it he will find much that will be sug-
gestive to him in the investigations of the dog-
mas of his Order .
Brant, Joseph . 	A,Mohawk Indian, who
was initiated in London in 1776 . During the
War of American Independence he was in com-
mand of some Indian troops on the British side
by whom Captain McKinsty, of t e mte~
States Army, had been captured . The In 	d ians
had tied their prisoner to a tree and were pre-
paring to torture him, when he made the
mystic appeal of a Mason in the hour of dan-
ger . Brant interposed and rescued his Amer-
ican brother from his impending fate, took
him to Quebec, and placed him in the hands
of some English_ Masons, who returned him,
uninjured, to the American outposts . 	(Haw-
: kin's Concise Cyclopmdia of F . M .)
Clavel has illustrated the occurrence on
p . 283 of his Histoire Pittoresque de la F . M .
[E . L . H .1
Brazen Laver . 	See Laver .
Brazen Pillars . See Pillars of the Porch .
Brazen Serpent . 	See Serpent and Cross .
Brazen Serpent, Knight of the . 	See
Knight of the Brazen Serpent .
Brazil . 	The first organized Masonic au-
thority at Brazil, the Grande Oriente do
Brazil, was established in Rio de Janeiro, in
the year 1821, by the division into three of a
Lodge at Rio de Janeiro, which is said to have
been established under a French warrant in
1816 .
BREADTH 	115
The Emperor, Dom Pedro I ., was soon
after initiated in one of these Lodges, and
immediately proclaimed Grand Master ; but
finding that the Lodges of that period were
nothing but political clubs, he ordered them
to be closed in the following year, 	1822 .
After his abdication in 1831, Masonic meet-
ings again took place, and a new authority,
under the title of "Grande Oriente Brazil-
eiro," was established .
Some of the old members of the "Grande
Oriente do Brazil " met in November of the
same year and reorganized that body ; so that
two supreme authorities of the French Rite
existed in Brazil .
In 1832, the Visconde de Jequitinhonha,
having received the necessary powers from the
Supreme Council of Belgium, established a
Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite- making thus a third contending body,
to w~ich were soon added a fourth and fifth,
by the illegal organizations of the Supreme
Councils of their own, by the contending
Grand Orientes . In 1835, disturbances broke
out in the legitimate Supreme Council, some of
its Lodges having proclaimed the Grand Mas-
ter of the Grand Orient of Brazil their Grand
Commander, and thus formed another Su-
preme Council . 	In 1842, new seeds of dis-
sension were planted by the combination of
this revolutionary faction with the Grande
Oriente Brazileiro, which body then aban-
doned the French Rite, and the two formed a
new Council, which proclaimed itself the only
legitimate authority of the Scottish Rite in
Brazil . 	But it would be useless as well as
painful to continue the record of these dis-
sension, which, like a black cloud, darkened
for years the Masonic sky of Brazil .
Things are now in a better condition, and
Freemasonry in Brazil is united under the one
head of the Grand Orient .
Bread, Consecrated . 	Consecrated bread
and wine that is to say, bread and wine used
not simpiy for food, but made sacred by the
purpose of symbolizing a bond of brotherhood,
and the eating and drinking of which are
sometimes called the "Communion of the
Brethren," is found in some of the higher de-
grees, such as the Order of High Priesthood in
the American Rite, and the Rose Croix of the
French and Scottish Rites .
It was in ancient times a custom religiously
observed, that those who sacrificed to the gods
should unite in partaking of a part of the food
that had been offered . 	And in the Jewish
church it was strictly commanded that the
sacrificers should "eat before the Lord," and
unite in a feast of joy on the occasion of their
offerings 	By this common partaking of that
which had been consecrated to a sacred pur-
pose, those who partook of the feast seemed to
give an evidence and attestation of the sin-
cerity with which they made the offering ;
while the feast itself was, as it were, the re-
newal of the covenant of friendship between
the parties .
Breadth of the Lodge . 	See Form of the
Lodge .

116 	BREAST
Breast . In one of the Old Lectures, q uoted
by Dr . Oliver, it is said : "A Mason's breast
should be a safe and sacred repository for all
your just and lawful secrets . A brother's
secrets, delivered to me as such, I would keep
as my own ; as to betray that trust might be
doing him the greatest injury he could sustain
in this mortal life ; na y , it would be like the
villany of an assassin who lurks in darkness to
stab his adversary when unarmed and least
prepared to meet an enemy ."
It is true, that the secrets of a Mason, con-
fided as such, should be as inviolate in the
breast of him who has received them as the
were in his own before they were confid
But it would be wrong to conclude that in this
a Mason is placed in a p osition different from
that which is occu p ied by every honorable
man . 	No man of honor is permitted to re-
veal a secret which he has received under the
pledge of secrecy . But it is as false as it is
absurd, to assert that either the man of honor
or the Mason is bound by any such obligation
to protect the criminal from the vindication
of the law . It must be left to ever y man to
determine by his own conscience whether he
is at liberty to betray a knowledge of facts
with which he could not have become ac-
quainted except under Some such pledge . No
court of law would attempt to extort a com-
munication of facts made known by a peni-
tent to his confessor or a client to his lawyer ;
for such a communication would make the
person communicating it infamous . In this
case, Masonry su p phes no other rule than
that which is found m the acknowledged codes
of Moral Ethics .
Breastplate . Called in Hebrew j=, chosen,
or T1£'27n IV)n, chosen mishpet, the breast-
plate of judgment, because through it the high
p riest received divine responses and uttered
his decisions on all matters relating to the
good of the commonwealth . It was a piece
of embroidered cloth of gold, purple, scarlet,
and fine white, twined linen . It was a span,
or about nine inches square, when doubled,
and made thus strong to hold the precious
stones that were set in it . It had a gold ring
at each corner, to the uppermost of which
were attached golden chains, by which it was
fastened to the shoulder-pieces of the ephod ;
while from the two lowermost went two rib-
bons of blue, by which it was attached to the
girdle of the ephod, and thus held secure in its
place . In the breastplate were set twelve pre-
cious jewels, on each of which was engraved
the name of one of the twelve tribes . The
stones were arranged in four rows, three stones
in each row . As to the order of arrangement
and the names of the stones, there has been
some difference among the authorities . The
authorized version of the Bible gives them in
this order : Sardius, topaz, carbuncle, emerald,
sapphire, diamond, ligure, agate, amethyst,
b 	1, onyx, jasper . This is the pattern gen-
era y followed in the construction of Masonic
breastplates, but modern researches into the
true meaning of the Hebrew names of the
stones have shown its inaccuracy . Espe-
BREASTPLATE
cially must the diamond be rejected, as no
engraver could have cut a name on this im-
penetrable g em, to say nothing of the pecuni-
ary value of a diamond of a size to match the
rest of the stones . Josephus (Ant ., III ., vii .)
gives the stones in the following order : Sar-
donyx, topaz, emerald ; carbuncle, jasper,
sapphire ; ligure, amethyst, agate ; chrysolite,
onyx, beryl . Kalisch, in his Commentary on
Exodus, gives a still different order : Corne-
lian 	(or sardius), topaz, smaragdus ; car-
buncle, sapphire, emerald ; ligure, agate, ame-
thyst ; chrysolite, onyx, jasper . But perhaps
the Vulgate translation is to be preferred as
an authority, because it was made in the fifth
century, at a time when the old Hebrew names
of the precious stones were better understood
than now . The order given in that version is
shown in the following diagram :
A description of each of these stones, with
its symbolic signification, will be found under
the appropriate head .
On the Stones were engraved the names of
the twelve tribes, one on each stone . The
order in which they were placed, according to
the Jewish Targums, was as follows, havin g a
reference to the respective ages of the twelve
sons of Jacob :
The differences made by different writers in
the order of the names of the stones arise only
from their respective translations of the He-
brew words . These original names are de-
tailed in Exodus (xxviii .), and admit of no
doubt, whatever doubt there may be as to the
gems which they were intended to represent .
These Hebrew names axe given on opposite
page .
The breastplate which was used in the first
Temple does not appear to have been returned
after the Captivity, for it is not mentioned in
the list of articles sent back by Cyrus . The
stones, on account of their great beauty and
value, were most probably removed from their
LEVI . 	SIMEON . 	REIIBEN .
ZEBIILIIN . 	ISSACHAR . 	JUDAH .
GAD . 	NAPHTALI . 	DAN .
BENJAMIN . 	JOSEPH . 	ASHER .
EMERALD . 	TOPAZ . 	SARDIIIS .
JASPER . 	SAPPHIRE . 	CARBUNCLE .
AMETHYST . 	AGATE . 	LIGIIRE .
BERYL . 	ONYx . 	CHRYSOLITE .

BREASTPLATE
original arrangement and reset in various or-
naments by their captors . A new one was
made for the services of the second Temple,
which, according to Josephus, when worn by
the High Priest, shot forth brilliant rays of fire
that manifested the immediate presence of
Jehovah . But he adds that two hundred
years before his time this miraculous power
had become extinct in consequence of the im-
piety of the nation . It was subsequently
carried to Rome together with the other spoils
of the Temple . Of the subsequent fate of
these treasures, and among them the breast-
plate, there are two accounts : one, that they
were conveyed to Carthage by Genseric after
his sack of Rome, and that the ship containing
them was lost on the voyage ; the other, and,
as King thinks (Ant . Gems, p . 137), the more
probable one, that they had been transferred
long before that time to Byzantium, and de-
posited by Justinian in the treasury of St .
Sophia .
The breastplate is worn in American Chap-
ters of the Royal Arch by the High Priest as an
essential part of his official vestments . The
symbolic reference of it, as given by Webb, is
that it is to teach him always to bear in mind
his responsibility to the laws and ordinances
of the Institution, and that the honor and in-
terests of his Chapter should be always near
his heart . This does not materially differ from
the ancient symbolism, for one of the names
given to the Jewish breastplate was the "me-
morial " because it was designed to remind
the High Priest how dear the . tribes whose
names it bore should be to his heart .
The breastplate does not appear to have
been original with or peculiar to the Jewish
ritual . The idea was, most probably, derived
from the Egyptians . Diodorus Siculus says
(1 . i ., c . 75) that among them the chief judge
bore about his neck a chain of gold, from which
hung a figure or image (fgSSwr), composed of
precious stones, which was called TRUTH, and
the legal proceedings only commenced when
the chief judge had assumed this image . 1Elian
BRIDGE 	117
(lib . 34) confirms this account by saying that
the image was engraved on sapphire, and hung
about the neck of the chief judge with a
golden chain . Peter du Val says that he saw
a mummy at Cairo, round the neck of which
was a chain, to which a golden plate was sus-
pended, on which the image of a bird was en-
graved . 	(See Urim and Thummim .)
Breast, The Faithful . 	One of the three
precious jewels of a Fellow-Craft . It symbol-
ically teaches the initiate that the lessons
which he has received from the instructive
tongue of the Master are not to be listened to
and lost, but carefully treasured in his heart,
and that the precepts of the Order constitute
a covenant which he is faithfully to observe . •
Breast to Breast . 	See Points of Fellow-
ship .
Brethren . 	This word, being the plural of
Brother in the solemn style, is more generally
used in Masonic language, instead of the com-
mon plural, Brothers . 	Thus Masons always
speak of "The Brethren of the Lodge," and
not of "The Brothers of the Lodge ."
Brethren of the Bridge . 	See Bridge
Builders of the Middle Ages .
Brethren of the Mystic Tie . 	The term
by which Masons distinguish themselves as
the members of a confraternity or brother-
hood united by a mystical bond . (See Mystic
Tie .)
Brewster, Sir David . 	See Lawnis, Alex-
ander .
Bridge . A most significant symbol in the
Fifteenth and Sixteenth Degrees of the Scot-
tish Rite, at which an important event tran-
spires . The characteristic letters which ap-
pear on the Bridge, L . o . P ., refer to that liberty
of thought which is ever thereafter to be the in-
heritance of those who have been symbol-
ically captive for seven weeks of years . It is
the new era of the freedom of expression, the
liberation of the former captive thought .
Liberty, but not License . (See Lakak Deror
Pessah ; also Liber ; also Liberty of Passage .)
It is also a symbol in the Royal Order .
Bridge Builders of the Middle Ages .
Before speaking of the Ponti/ 	. ces, or the " Fra-
ternity of Bridge Builders,' whose history is
closely connected with that of the Freemasons
of the Middle Ages, it will be as well to say
something of the word which they assumed as
the title of their brotherhood .
The Latin word pontifex, with its equivalent
English ponti~', literally signifies "the builder
of a bridge," from pons, " a bridge," and facere
"to make ." But this sense, which it must
have originally possessed, it seems very speed-
ily to have lost, and we, as well as the Romans,
only recognize pontifex or pontiff as significant
of a sacerdotal character .
Of all the colleges of priests in ancient
Rome, the most illustrious was that of the
Pontiffs . The College of Pontiffs was estab-
lished by Numa, and originally consisted of
five, but was afterward increased to sixteen .
The whole religious system of the Romans,
the management of all the sacred rites, and the
government of the priesthood, was under the
I
n~~a
w
BA$arr .
rrit~h
*
Prrnin .
01K
~
ODEM .
at
Y&R&LOM .
at
SAPmn .
~
NOPEOH .
i 6
Aom AMAa .
Inv
Sn no .
ovr
Lrsmm .
;-rb~" 	orw 	r "w r
YASHPAIT . 	SnoaAM . 	TAnsamsn .

118 	BRIDGE
control and direction of the College of Pontiffs,
of which the Pontifex Maximus, or High Priest,
was the presiding officer and the organ through
which its decrees were communicated to the
people . Hence, when the Papal Church es-
tablished its seat at the city of Rome, its
Bishop assumed the designation of Pontifex
Maximus as one of his titles, and Pontiff and
Pope are now considered equivalent terms .
The question naturally arises as to what
connection there was between religious rites
and the building of bridges, and why a Roman
priest bore the name which literally denoted a
bridge builder . 	Etymologists have in vain
sought to solve the problem, and, after all
their speculation, fail to satisfy us . One of
the most tenable theories is that of Schmitz,
who thinks the Pontifices were so called be-
cause they superintended the sacrifices on a
bridge, alluding to the Argean sacrifices on
the Sublician bridge . But Varro gives a more
probable explanation when he tells us that the
Sublician bridge was built by the Pontifices ;
and that it was deemed, from its historic asso-
ciation, of so sacred a character, that no re-
pairs could be made on it without a previous
sacrifice, which was to be conducted by the
Chief Pontiff in person . The true etymology
is, however, undoubtedly lost ; yet it may be
interesting, as well as suggestive, to know that
in old Rome there was, even in a mere title,
supposing that it was nothing more, some sort
of connection between the art or practise of
bridge building and the mysterious sacerdotal
rites established by Numa, a connection which
was subsequently again developed in the Ma-
sonic association which is the subject of the
present article . 	Whatever may have been
this connection in Pagan Rome, we find, after
the establishment of Christianity and in the
Middle Ages, a secret Fraternity organized as
a branch of the Traveling Freemasons of that
period, whose members were exclusively de-
voted to the building of bridges, and who were
known as Pontifices, or "Bridge Builders,"
and styled by the French les Freres Pontifes,
or Pontifical Brethren, and by the Germans
Bruckenbriider, or "Brethren of the Bridge ."
It is of this Fraternity that, because of their
association in history with the early corpora-
tions of Freemasons, it is proposed to give a
brief sketch .
In the eleventh and twelfth centuries, the
methods of intercommunication between dif-
ferent countries were neither safe nor conve-
nient . 	Travelers could not avail themselves
of the comforts of either macadamized roads
or railways . 	Stage-coaches were unknown .
He who was compelled by the calls of business
to leave his home, trudged as a pedestrian
wearily on foot, or as an equestrian, if his means
permitted that mode of journeying ; made his
solitary ride through badly constructed roads,
where he frequently became the victim of rob-
bers, who took his life as well as his purse, or
submitted to the scarcely less heavy exactions
of some lawless Baron, who claimed it as his
high prerogative to levy a tax on every way-
farer who passed through his domains . Inns
BRIDGE
were infrequent, incommodious, and expen-
sive, and the weary traveler could hardly
have appreciated Shenstone's declaration,
that
"Whoe'er has travelled life's dull round,
Where'er his stages may have been,
May sigh to think he still has found
His warmest welcome at an inn ."
But one of the greatest embarrassments to
which the traveler in this olden time was ex-
posed occurred when there was a necessity to
cross a stream of water . The noble bridges of
the ancient Greeks and Romans had been
destroyed by time or war, and the intellectual
debasement of the dark ages had prevented
their renewal . Hence, when refinement and
learning began to awaken from that long sleep
which followed the invasion of the Goths and
Vandals and the decline and fall of the Roman
Empire, the bridgeless rivers could only be
crossed by swimming through the rapid cur-
rent, or by fording the shallow places .
The earliest improvement toward a re-
moval of these difficulties consisted in the
adoption of rafts or boats, and guilds or cor-
porations of raftsmen and boatmen, under the
names of Linuncularii, Lintrarii, and Utricu-
larii, were formed to transport travelers and
merchandise across rivers . But the times were
lawless, and these watermen oftener plundered
than assisted their patrons . Benevolent per-
sons, therefore, saw the necessity of erecting
hostelries on the banks of the rivers at fre-
quented places, and of constructing bridges
for the transportation of travelers and their
goods .
All the architectural labors of the period
were, as is well known, entrusted to the guilds
or corporations of builders who, under the
designation of 	" Traveling Freemasons,"
passed from country to country, and, patron-
ized by the Church, erected those magnificent
cathedrals, monasteries, and other public ed-
ifices, many of which have long since crumbled
to dust, but a few of which still remain to at-
test the wondrous ability of these Operative
Brethren . Alone skilled in the science of ar-
chitecture, from them only could be derived
workmen capable of constructing safe and
enduring bridges .
Accordingly, a portion of these "Freema-
sons," withdrawing from the general body,
united, under the patronage of the Church,
into a distinct corporation of Freres Pontifes,
or Bridge Builders . 	The name which they
received in Germany was that of Briicken-
briider, or Brethren of the Bridge .
A legend of the Church attributes their
foundation to Saint Benezet, who accordingly
became the patron of the Order, as Saint John
was of the Freemasons proper . Saint Benezet
was a shepherd of Avilar, in France, who was
born in the year 1165 . "He kept his mother's
sheep in the country," says Butler, the his-
torian of the saints, "being devoted to the
practices of piety beyond his age ; when moved
by charity to save the lives of many poor per-
sons, who were frequently drowned in crossing

BRIDGE
the Rhone, and, being inspired by God, he
undertook to build a bridge over that rapid
river at Avignon . He obtained the appro-
bation of the Bishop, proved his mission by
miracles, and began the work in 1177, which
he directed during seven years . He died when
the difficulty of the undertaking was over, in
1184 . 	His body was buried upon the bridge
itself, which was not completely finished till
four years after his decease= the structure
whereof was attended with miracles from the
first laying of the foundations till it was com-
pleted, in 1188 ."
Divesting this account, which Butler has
drawn from the Acta Sanctorum of the Bol-
landists, of the miraculous, the improbable,
and the legendary, the naked fact remains
that Benezet was engaged, as the principal
conductor of the work, in the construction of
the magnificent bridge at Avignon, with its
eighteen arches . As this is the most ancient
of the bridges of Europe built after the com-
mencement of the restoration of learning, it is
most probable that he was, as he is claimed
to have been, the founder of that Masonic
corporation of builders who, under the name
of Brethren of the Bridge, assisted him in the
undertaking, and who, on the completion of
their task, were engaged in other parts of
France, of Italy, and of Germany, in similar
labors .
After the death of Saint Benezet, he was
succeeded by Johannes Benedictus, to whom,
as "Prior of the Bridge," and to his brethren, a
charter was granted in 1187, by which they
obtained a chapel and cemetery, with a chap-
lain .
In 1185, one year after the death of Saint
Benezet, the Brethren of the Bridge com-
menced the construction of the Bridge of
Saint Esprit, over the Rhone at Lyons . The
completion of this work greatly extended the
reputation of the Bridge Builders, and in 1189
they received a charter from Pope Clement
III . 	The city of Avignon continued to be
their headquarters, but they gradually en-
tered into Italy, Spain, Germany, Sweden,
and Denmark . The Swedish chronicles men-
tion one Benedict, between the years 1178
and 1191, who was a Bishop and bridge
builder at Skara, in that kingdom . Could he
have been the successor, already mentioned,
of Benezet, who had removed from Avignon
to Sweden? As late as 1590 we find the Order
existing at Lucca, in Italy where, in 1562,
John de Medicis exercised t&e functions of its
chief under the title of Magister, or Master .
How the Order became finally extinct is not
known ; but after its dissolution much of the
property which it had accumulated passed
into the hands of the Knights Hospitalers or
Knights of Malta .
t
The guild or corporation of Bridge Builders,
like the corporation of Traveling Freemasons,
from which it was an offshoot, was a religious
institution, but admitted laymen into the so-
ciety . 	In other words, the workmen, or the
eat body of the guild, were of course secular,
but the patrons were dignitaries of the Church .
BRIGHT 	119
When by the multiplication of bridges the
necessity of their employment became less
urgent, and when the numbers of the work-
men were greatly increased, the patronage of
the Church was withdrawn, and the associa-
tion was dissolved, or soon after fell into decay ;
its members, probably, for the most part, re-
uniting with the corporations of Masons from
whom they had originally been derived . Noth-
ing has remained in modern Masonry to pre-
serve the memory of the former connection of
the Order with the bridge builders of the Mid-
dle Ages, except the ceremony of opening a
bridge, which is to be found in the rituals of
the last century ; but even this has now be-
come almost obsolete .
Lenning, who has appropriated a brief arti-
cle in his Encyclopddie der Freimaurerei to the
Bruckenbriider, or Brethren of the Bridge, in-
correctly calls them an Order of Knights .
They took, he says, vows of celibacy and pov-
erty, and also to protect travelers, to attend
upon the sick, and to build bridges, roads,
and hospitals . Several of the inventors of
high degrees have, he thinks, sought to revive
the Order in some of the degrees which they
have established, and especially in the Knights
of the Sword, which appears in the Ancient
and Accepted Rite as the Fifteenth Degree, or
Knights of the East ; but I can find no re-
semblance except that in the Knights of the
Sword there is in the ritual a reference to a
river and a bridge . I am more inclined to be-
lieve that the Nineteenth Degree of the same
Rite, or Grand Pontiff, was once connected
with the Order we have been considering ; and
that, while the primitive ritual has been lost
or changed so as to leave no vestige of a re-
lationship between the two, the name which is
still retained may have been derived from the
FrPres Pontifes of the twelfth century .
This, however, is mere conjecture, without
any means of proof . All that we do positively
know is, that the bridge builders of the Middle
Ages were a Masonic association, and as such
axe entitled to a place in all Masonic histories .
Brief . 	The diploma or certificate in some
of the high degrees is so called .
Bright . 	A Mason is said to be "bright "
who is well acquainted with the ritual, the
forms of opening and closing, and the cere-
monies of initiation . This expression does
not, however, in its technical sense, appear to
include the superior knowledge of the history
and science of the Institution, and many
bright Masons axe, therefore, not necessarily
learned Masons ; and, on the contrary, some
learned Masons are not well versed in the exact
phraseology of the ritual . The one knowl-
edge depends on a retentive memory, the other
is derived from deep research . It is scarcely
necessary to say which of the two kinds of
knowledge is the more valuable . The Mason
whose acquaintance with the Institution is
confined to what he learns from its esoteric
ritual will have but a limited idea of its sci-
ence and philosophy . And yet a knowledge
of the ritual as the foundation of higher
knowledge is essential .

120 	BRITHERING
Brithering . 	The Scotch term for Masonic
initiation .
British Columbia . 	The first Lodge es-
tablished in this Province was Victoria, No .
783, by the Grand Lodge of England, March
19, 1859, and the first chartered 	by the
Grand Lodge of Scotland was Vancouver
Lodge in, 1862 .
In 1871 the Grand Lodge of England had
three Lodges in the Province, and the Grand
Lodge of Scotland six Lodges . A convention
was held on the 21st day of October, 1871,
and the Grand Lodge of British Columbia
duly organized . 	Eight out of the nine Lodges
in the Province were represented . The Pro-
vincial Grand Master of Scotland and the
District Grand Master of England both took
an active interest in the formation of the new
Grand Body, and M . W . Bro . Israel Wood
Powell, M .D ., was unanimously elected Grand
Master . 	[Will H . Whyte .]
t
Broached Thurnel . 	In the lectures of
the early part of the eighteenth century the
Immovable Jewels of the Lodge are said to be
"the Tarsel Board, 	Rough Ashlar, 	and
Broached Thurnel " ; and in describing their
uses it is taught that "the Rough Ashlar is for
he Fellow C rafts to try their jewels on and
the Broached Thurnel for the Entered Ap-
prentices to learn to work upon ." Much dif-
ficulty has been met with in discovering what
the Broached Thurnel really was . Dr . Oliver,
most probably deceived by the use to which
it was assigned, says (Diet . Symb . Mas .) that
it was subsequently called the Rough Ashlar .
This is evidently incorrect because a distinc-
tion is made in the original lecture between it
and the Rough Ashlar, the former being for
the Apprentices and the latter for the Fellow-
Crafts . 	Krause (Kunsturkunden, i ., 73) has
translated it by Drehbank, which means a
turning-lathe 	an implement not used by
Operative Masons . Now what is the real
meaning of the word? If we inspect an old
tracing board of the Apprentice's Degree of
the date when the Broached Thurnel was in
use, we shall find depicted on it three symbols,
two of which will at once be recognized as the
Tarsel, or Trestle Board, and the Rough
Ashlar, just as we have them at the present
day ; while the third symbol will be that de-
picted in the margin, namely, a cubical stone
with a pyramidal apex . This is the Broached
Thurnel . 	It is the symbol which is still to be
found, with precisely the same form, in all
French tracing boa, under the name of the
pierre cubique, or cubical stone, and which has
been replaced in English and American trac-
ing boards and rituals by the Perfect Ashlar .
For the derivation of the words, we must go
to old and now almost obsolete terms of archi-
tecture . On inspection, it will at once be seen
that the Broached Thurnel has the form of a
little square turret with a spire springing
from it . 	Now, broach, or broche, says Parker
(Gloss . of Terms in Architect ., p . 97), is "an old
English term for a spire, still in use in some
parts of the country, as in Leicestershire,
where it is said to denote a spire springing
BROTHERIIOOI'
from the tower without any intervening para-
pet . 	Thurnel is from the old French tournelle,
a turret or little tower . The Broached Thur-
nel, then, was the Spired Turret . It was a
model on which apprentices might learn the
principles of their art, because it presented to
them, in its various outlines, the forms of the
square and the triangle, the cube and the
pyramid ."
[But in Ars Quatuor Coronatorum (xii ., 205),
Bro . G . W . Speth quotes from the Imperial
Dictionary :
"Broach, in Scotland, a term among masons,
signifying to rough hew . Broached Work, in
Scotland, a term among masons, signifying
work or stones that are rough-hewn, and thus
distinguished from Ashlar or polished work .
Broaching-Thurmal, Thurmer, Turner, names
given to the chisels by which broached work is
executed ."
And he suggests that the Broached Thurnel
was really a chisel for the Entered Appren-
tices to learn to work with .
The 	new English 	Dictionary explains
"Broached " as a term used "of stone- chis-
elled with a broach," or narrow-pointed chisel
used by masons ; but this still leaves it uncer-
tain what a "Thurnel " is .-E . L . H .]
Broken Column . 	Among the Hebrews,
columns, or pillars, were used metaphorically
to signify princes or nobles, as if they were
the pillars of a state . Thus, in Psalm xi . 3, the
passage, reading in our translation, "If the
foundations be destroyed, what can the right-
eous do? " is, in the original, "when the col-
umns are overthrown," i . e ., when the firm
supporters of what is right and good have per-
ished . 	So the passage in Isaiah xix . 10 should
read : 	"her (Egypt's) columns are broken
down," that is, the nobles of her state . 	In
Freemasonry, the broken column is, as Master
Masons well know, the emblem of the fall of
one of the chief supporters of the Craft . The
use of the column or pillar as a monument
erected over a tomb was a very ancient cus-
tom, and was a very significant symbol of the
character and spirit of the person interred .
It is accredited to Jeremy L . Cross that he
first introduced the Broken Column into the
ritual, but this may not be true . 	(See Monu-
ment .)
Brother . 	The term which Freemasons
apply to each other . Freemasons are Breth-
ren, not only by common participation of the
human nature, but as professing the same
faith ; as being jointly engaged in the same
labors, and as being united by a mutual cove-
nant or tie, whence they are also emphat-
ically called "Brethren of the Mystic Tie ."
(See Companion .)
Brotherhood . 	When our Savior desig-
nated his disciples as his brethren, he implied
that there was a close bond of union existing
between them, which idea was subsequently
carried out by St . Peter in his direction to
"love the brotherhood ." 	Hence the early
Christians designated themselves as a brother-
hood, a relationship unknown to the Gentile
religions ; and the ecclesiastical and other con-

BROTHERLY
fraternities of the Middle Ages assumed the
same title to designate any association of men
engaged in the same common object, governed
by the same rules, and united by an identical
interest . The association or Fraternity of
Freemasons is, in this sense, called a brother-
hood .
Brotherly Kiss . 	See Kiss . Fraternal .
Brotherly Love . 	At a very early period
in the course of his initiation, a candidate for
the mysteries of Freemasonry is informed that
the great principles of the Order are BROTH-
ERLY LOVE, RELIEF, and TRUTH . 	These vir-
tues are illustrated, and their practise recom-
mended to the aspirant, at every step of his
progress ; and the instruction, though contin-
ually varied in its mode, is so constantly re-
peated, as infallibly to impress upon his mind
their absolute necessity in the constitution of a
good Mason .
BROTHERLY LOVE might very well be sup-
posed to be an ingredient in the organization
of a society so peculiarly constituted as that
of Freemasonry . But the Brotherly Love
which we inculcate is not a mere abstraction,
nor is its character left to any general and care-
less understanding of the candidate, who
might be disposed to give much or little of it
to his brethren, according to the peculiar con-
stitution of his own mind, or the extent of his
own generous or selfish feelings . It is, on the
contrary, closely defined ; its object plainly
denoted ; and the very mode and manner of
its practise detailed in words, and illustrated
by symbols, so as to give neither cause for
error nor apology for indifference .
Every Mason is acquainted with the Five
Points of Fellowship-he knows their sym-
bolic meaning-he can never forget the in-
teresting incidents that accompanied their
explanation ; and while he has this knowl-
edge, and retains this remembrance, he can be
at no loss to understand what are his duties,
and what must be his conduct, in relation to
the principle of Brotherly Love . (See Points
of Fellowship .)
Brothers of 	the Bridge . 	See Bridge
Builders of the Middle Ages .
Brothers of the Rosy Cross . 	See Rosi-
crucianism .
Brown, Dr . John . 	See Latin Lodge .
M
p
Browne, John . 	In 1798 John Browne
ublished, in London, a work entitled The
aster Key through all the Degrees of a Free-
Mason's Lodge, to which is added, Eulogiums
and Illustrations upon Freemasonry . 	In 1802,
he published a second edition under the title of
Browne's Masonic Master Key through the
three degrees, by way of polyglot . 	Under the
sanction of the Craft in general, containing the
exact mode of working, initiation, passing and
raising to the sublime degree of a Master . Also,
the several duties of the Master, officers, and
brethren while in the Lodge, with every requisite
to render the accomplished Mason an explana-
tion of all the hieroglyphics . The whole inter-
spersed with illustrations on Theology, Astron-
omy, Architecture, Arts, Sciences, &c ., many of
which are by the editor . Browne had been, he
BRUCE 	1 2 1
says, the Past Master of six Lodges, and wrote
his work not as an offensive exposition, but as
a means of giving Masons a knowledge of the
ritual . It is considered to be a very complete
representation of the Prestonian lectures, and
as such was incorporated by Krause in his
drei altesten Kunsturkunden . 	The work is
printed in a very complicated cipher, the key
to which, and without which the book is
wholly unintelligible, was, by way of caution,
delivered only personally and to none but
those who had reached the Third Degree .
The explanation of this "mystical key," as
Browne calls it, is as follows : The word
Browne supplies the vowels, thus, b r o w n e~
aeiouy
and these six vowels in turn represent six let-
ters, a e i o u y . Initial capitals are of
' 	kcolnu
no value, and supernumerary letters are often
inserted . The words are kept separate, but
the letters of one word are often divided be-
tween two or three . Much therefore is left to
the shrewdness of the decipherer . The initial
sentence of the work may be adduced as a
specimen . 	Ubs Rplrbsrt wbss ostm ronwprn
Pongth Mrlwdgr, which is thus deciphered :
Please to assist me in opening the Lodge . The
work is now exceedingly rare .
Bru . 	See Vielle Bru, Rite of.
Bruce, Robert . 	The introduction of Free-
masonry into Scotland has been attributed
by some writers to Robert, King of Scotland,
commonly called Robert Bruce, who is said to
have established in 1314 the Order of Hero-
dom, for the reception of those Knights Tem-
plars who had taken refuge in his dominions
from the persecutions of the Pope and the King
of France . Thory (Act . Lat ., i ., 6) copies the
following from a manuscript in the library
of the Mother Lodge of the Philosophical
Rite :
"Robert Bruce, King of Scotland, under the
name of Robert the First, created, on the
24th June, 1314, after the battle of Bannock-
burn, the Order of St . Andrew of the Thistle,
to which has been since united that of Hero-
dom (H-D-M) for the sake of the Scotch Ma-
sons, who composed a part of the thirty thou-
sand men with whom he had conquered an
army of a hundred thousand Englishmen .
He reserved, in perpetuity, to himself and his
successors, the title of Grand Master . He
founded the Royal Grand Lodge of the Order
of H-D-M at Kilwinning, and died, full of
glory and honours, the 9th of July, 1329 ."
Dr . Oliver (Landm ., ii ., 13), referring to the
abolition of the Templar Order in England,
when the Knights were compelled to enter
the Preceptories of the Knights of St . John, as
dependents, says :
" In Scotland, Edward, who had overrun
the country at the time, endeavoured to pur-
sue the same course ; but, on summoning the
Knights to appear, only two, Walter de Clif-
ton, the Grand Preceptor, and another, came
forward . On their examination, they con-
fessed that all the rest had fled ; and as Bruce

1 2 2 	BRUN
was advancing with his army to meet Edward,
nothing further was done . The Templars,
being debarred from taking refuge either in
England or Ireland, had no alternative but
to join Bruce, and give their active support to
his cause . Thus, after the battle of Bannock-
burn, in 1314, Bruce granted a charter of
lands to Walter de Clifton, as Grand Master of
the Templars for the assistance which they
rendered on that occasion . Hence the Royal
Order of H-R-D-M was frequently prac-
tised under the name of Templary ."
Lawrie, or the author of Lawrie's History of
Freemasonry, who is excellent authority for
Scottish Masonry, does not appear, however,
to give any credit to the narrative . Whatever
Bruce may have done for the higher degrees,
there is no doubt that Ancient Craft Masonry
was introduced into Scotland at an earlier
period . But it cannot be denied that Bruce
was one of the patrons and encouragers of
Scottish Freemasonry-
Bran, Abraham Van . A wealthy Mason
of Hamburg, who died at an advanced age in
1748 . For many years he had been the soul
of the "Societe des anciens Rose-Croix" in
Germany, which soon after his death was dis-
solved . 	(Thory, Act . Lat ., ii ., 295 .)
Brunswick, Congress of . 	It was con-
voked, in 1775, by Ferdinand, Duke of Bruns-
wick . Its object was to effect a fusion of the
various Rites ; but it terminated its labors,
after a session of six weeks, without success .
Buchanan MS . 	This parchment roll
one of the "Old Charges "-is so named be-
cause it was presented to the Grand Lodge of
England in 1880 by Mr . George Buchanan, of
Whitby, by whom it was found amongst the
papers of a partner of his father's . It is con-
sidered to be of the latter part of the seven-
teenth century-say from 1660 to 1680 .
It was first published at length in Gould's
History of Freemasonry (vol . i ., p . 93), being
adopted as an example of the ordinary class
of text and since has been reproduced in fac-
simile Ly the Quatuor Coronati Lodge of Lon-
don in vol . iv ., of their Masonic re rents .
FE . L . H .]
Buddhism . 	The religion of the disciples
of Buddha . It prevails over a great extent
of Asia, and is estimated to be equally popu-
lar with any other form of faith among man-
kind . Its founder, Buddha-a word which
seems to be an appellative as it signifies the
enlightened-lived about five hundred years
before the Christian era, and established his
religion as a reformation of Brahmanism .
The moral code of Buddhism is very per-
fect, surpassing that of any other heathen
religion . But its theology is not so free from
objection . Max Miiller admits that there is
not a single passage in the Buddhist canon
of scripture which presupposes the belief in a
personal God or a Creator, and hence he con-
cludes that the teaching of Buddha was pure
atheism . Yet Upham (Hist . and Dect . of
Bud ., p . 2) thinks that, even if this be capable
of proof, it also recognizes "the operation of
Faith (called Damata), whereby much of the
BUHLE
necessary process of conservation or govern-
ment is mused into the system ."
The doctrine of Nirvana, according to Burn-
ouf, taught that absolute nothing or annihi-
lation was the highest aim of virtue, and hence
the belief in immortality was repudiated .
Such, too, has been the general opinion of
Oriental scholars ; but Muller (Science of Re-
ligion : p . 141) adduces evidence, from the
teachings of Buddha, to show that Nirvana
may mean the extinction of many thins-of
selfishness, desire, and sin-without going so
far as the extinction of subjective conscious-
ness .
The sacred scripture of Buddhism is the
Tripitaka, literally, the Three Baskets . The
first, or the Vinaya, comprises all that relates
to morality ; the second, or the Sitras, con-
tains the discourses of Buddha ; and the third,
or Abhidharma, includes all works on meta-
physics and dogmatic philosophy . The first
and second Baskets also receive the general
name of Dharma, or the Law . The principal
seat of Buddhism is the island of Ceylon, but
it has extended into China, Japan, and many
other countries of Asia . (See Aranyaka, At-
thakatha, Mahabharata, 	Pitaka, Puranas,
Ramayana, Shaster, Sruti, Upanishad, Upa-
devas, Vedas, and Vedanga .)
Buenos Ayres . 	A Lodge was chartered in
this city, and named the Southern Star, by
the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania in 1825 .
Others followed, but in 1846 in consequence of
the unsettled state of affairs their labors were
suspended . A revival occurred in 1852, when
a Lodge named " L'Ami des Naufrag6s " was
established in Buenos Ayres by the Grand
Orient of France ; and in 1853 the Grand
Lodge of England erected a Lodge named
" Excelsior" (followed in 1859 by the "Teu-
tonia," which worked in German and was
erased in 1872), and in 1864 by the "Star of the
South ." In 1856 there was an irregular body
working in the Ancient and Accepted Rite
which claimed the prerogatives of a Gran d 	.
Lodge, but it was never recognized, and soon
ceased to exist . On September 13, 1858, a
Supreme Council and Grand Orient was es-
tablished by the Supreme Council of Uruguay .
In 1861 a treaty was concluded between the
Grand Lodge of England and the Grand Ori-
ent of the Argentine Republic, which empow-
ered the former to establish Lodges in La
Plata and to constitute a District Grand
Lodge therein, which has 13 Lodges under
its rule, while 108 acknowledge the authority
of the "Supreme Council and Grand Orient
of the Argentine Republic in Buenos Ayres,"
which was formed in 1895 by combination
of the Grand Orient and Supreme Council .
[E . L . H .]
Buh . A monstrous corruption, in the
American Royal Arch, of the word Bel . Up to
a recent period, it was combined with another
corrup tion, Lun, in the mutilated form of
Buh-Lun, under which disguise the words Bel
and On were presented to the neophyte .
Buhle, Johann Gottlieb . 	Professor of
Philosophy in the University of G6ttingeu,

BUILDER
who, not being himself a Mason, published,
in 1804, a work entitled Ueber den Ursprung
and die vornehmsten Schicksale des Orders der
Rosenkreuzer and Freimaurer, that is, "On the
Origin and the Principal Events of the Orders
of Rosicrucianism and Freemasonry ." 	This
work, illogical in its arguments, false in many
of its statements, and confused in its arrange-
ment, was attacked by Frederick Nicolai in a
critical review of it in 1806, and is spoken of
very slightingly even by De Quincey, himself
no very warm admirer of the Masonic Insti-
tution, who published, in 1824, in the London
Magazine (vol . ix .), a loose translation of it,
"abstracted, re-arranged, and improved,"
under the title of Historicocritical Inquiry into
the Origin of the Rosicrucians and the Free-
masons . Buhle's theory was that Freemasonry
was invented in the year 1629, by John Valen-
tine Andrea . 	Buhle was born at Brunswick
in 1753, became Professor of Philosophy at
Gottingen in 1787, and, having afterward
taught in his native city, died there in 1821 .
Builder . 	The chief architect of the Tem-
ple of Solomon is often called "the Builder ."
But the word is also applied generally to the
Craft ; 	for every speculative Mason is as
much a builder as was his operative prede-
cessor . 	An American writer (F . S . Wood)
thus alludes to this symbolic idea : "Masons
are called moral builders . 	In their rituals,
they declare that a more noble and glorious
purpose than squaring stones and hewing
timbers is theirs, fitting immortal nature for
that spiritual building not made with hands,
eternal in the heavens ." And he adds, "The
builder builds for a century ; Masons for eter-
nity ." 	In this sense, "the Builder" is the
noblest title that can be bestowed upon a
Mason .
Builder, Smitten . See Smitten Builder .
Builders, Corporations of . See Stone-
Masons of the Middle Ages .
Bul . 	Oliver says that this is one of the
names of God among the ancients . (Land-
marks, ii ., 551 .) It is also said to be an Assyr-
ian word signifying " Lord " or "Powerful ."
Bul . The primitive designation of the
month Marchesvan . 	(See Zif .)
Bull, Papal . An edict or proclamation
issued from the Apostolic Chancery, with the
seal and signature of the Pope, written in
Gothic letters and upon coarse parchment .
It derives its name from the leaden seal which
is attached to it by a cord of hemp or silk, and
which in medieval Latin is called ulla . Sev-
eral of these bulls have from time to time been
fulminated against Freemasonry and other
secret societies, subjecting them to the heavi-
est ecclesiastical punishments, even to the
greater excommunication . According to these
bulls a Freemason is ipso facto excommuni-
cated by continuing his membership in the
society, and is thus deprived of all spiritual
privileges while living, and the rites of burial
when dead .
The several important Bulls which have
been issued by the Popes of Rome intended to
affect the Fraternity of Freemasons are as fol-
BUNYAN 	1 2 3
Iowa : the Bull In Eminenti of Clement XII .,
dated 24th of April, 1738 . This Bull was con-
firmed and renewed by that beginning Pro-
vidas, of Benedict XIV ., 18th of May, 1751-
then followed the edict of Pius VII . 13th of
September, 1821 ; the apostolic edict Quo
Graviora of Leo XII ., 13th of March, 1825 ; that
of Pius VIII ., 21st of May, 1829 ; that of Greg-
ory XVI ., 15th of August, 1832 ; Pius I X . i n
1846 and 1865 ; and finally that of Leo XIII .,
who ascended to the papacy in 1878, and is-
sued his Bull, or encyclical letter, Humanum
Genus, on April 20, 1884 .
Whatever may have been the severity of
the Bulls issued by the predecessors of Leo
XIII ., he with great clearness ratifies and
confirms them all in the following language :
"Therefore, whatsoever the popes our prede-
cessors have decreed to hinder the designs and
attempts of the sect of Freemasons ; whatso-
ever they have ordained to deter or recall per-
sons from societies of this kind, each and all do
we ratify and confirm by our Apostolic author-
ity ." At the same time acknowledging that
this "society of men are most widely spread
and firmly established ."
This letter of the Roman hierarchy thus
commences : "The human race, after its most
miserable defection, through the wiles of the
devil, from its Creator God, the giver of ce-
lestial gifts, has divided into two different and
opposite factions, of which one fights ever for
truth and virtue, the other for their opposites .
One is the kingdom of God on earth . . . the
other is the kingdom of Satan ."
That, "by accepting any that present them
selves, no matter of what religion, they (the
Masons) gain their purpose of urging that
great error of the present day viz ., that ques-
tions of religion ought to be left undetermined,
and that there should be no distinction made
between varieties . And this policy aims at the
destruction of all religions, especially at that of
the Catholic religion, which, since it is the only
true one, cannot be reduced to equality with 	.
the rest without the greatest injury ."
"But, in truth, the sect grants great license
to its initiates, allowing them to defend either
position that there is a God, or that there is
no God ."
Thus might we quote continuous passages,
which need only to be stated to proclaim their
falsity, and yet there are those who hold to the
doctrine of the infallibility of the Pope .
Bulletin . The name given by the Grand
Orient of France to the monthly publication
which contains the official record of its pro-
ceedings . A similar work is issued by the Su-
preme Council of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction of the
United States of America, and by several
other Supreme Councils and Grand Orients .
Bunyan, John . 	The well-known author
of the Pilgrim's Progress . 	He lived in the
seventeenth century, and was the most cele-
brated allegorical writer of England . 	His
work entitled Solomon's Temple Spiritualized
will supply the student of Masonic symbolism
with many valuable suggestions .

1 2 4 	BURDENS
Burdens, Bearers of . 	A class of work-
men at the Temple mentioned in 2 Chron . ii .
18, and referred to by Dr . Anderson (Const .,
1738, p . 11) as the Ish Sabbal, which see .
Burt or Bure . 	The first god of Norse
mythology . In accordance with the quaint
cosmogony of the ancient religion of Germany
or that of Scandinavia, it was believed that
before the world came into existence there was
a great void, on the north side of which was a
cold and dark region, and on the south side
one warm and luminous . In Niflheim was a
well, or the "seething caldron," out of which
flowed twelve streams into the great void and
formed a huge giant . In Iceland the first
great giant was called Ymir, by the Germans
Tuisto (Tacitus, Germania, 	ch . 2), whose
three grandchildren were regarded as the
founders of three of the German races .
Cotemporary with Ymir, and from the
great frost-blocks of primeval chaos, was pro-
duced a man called Buri, who was wise,
strong, and beautiful . His son married the
daughter of another giant, and their issue were
the three sons Odin, Wili, and We, who ruled
as gods in heaven and earth .
By some it is earnestly believed that upon
these myths and legends many symbols of
Masonry were founded .
Burial . 	The right to be buried with the
ceremonies of the Order is one that, under cer-
tain restrictions, belongs to every Master Ma-
son .
None of the ancient Constitutions contain
any law upon this subject, nor can the exact
time be now determined when funeral pro-
cessions and a burial service were first ad-
mitted as regulations of the Order .
The first official notice, however, that we
have of funeral processions is in November,
1754 . A regulation was then adopted which
prohibited any Mason from attending a fu-
neral or other procession clothed in any of the
jewels or clothing of the Craft, except by dis-
pensation of the Grand Master or his deputy .
(Constitutions, 1756, p . 303 .)
There are no further regulations on this sub-
ject in any of the editions of the Book of Con-
stitutions previous to the modern code which
is now in force in the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land . But Preston gives us the rules on this
subject, which have now been adopted by
general consent as the law of the Order, in the
following words :
"No Mason can be interred with the for-
malities of the Order unless it be by his own
special request communicated to the Master
of the Lodge of which he died a member, for-
eigners and sojourners excepted ; nor unless he
has been advanced to the third degree of Ma-
sonry, from which restriction there can be no
exception . Fellow Crafts or Apprentices are
not entitled to the funeral obsequies ." (Illus-
trations, 1792, p . 118 .)
The only restrictions prescribed by Preston
are, it will be perceived, that the deceased
must have been a Master Mason, that he had
himself made the request, and that he was af-
filiated, which is implied by the expression
BURNS
that he must have made the request for burial
of the Master of the Lodge of which he was a
member .
The regulation of 1754, which requires a
dispensation from the Grand Master for a
funeral procession, is not considered of force
in the United States of America, where, ac-
cordingly, Masons have generally been per-
mitted to bury their dead without the neces-
sity of such dispensation .
Burning Bush . 	In the third chapter of
Exodus it is recorded that, while Moses was
keeping the flock of Jethro on Mount Horeb,
"the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a
flame of fire out of the midst of a bush," and
there communicated to him for the first time
his Ineffable Name . This occurrence is com-
memorated in the "Burning Bush" of the
Royal Arch Degree . In all the systems of an-
tiquity, fire is adopted as a symbol of Deity ;
and the "Burning Bush," or the bush filled
with fire which did not consume, whence came
forth the Tetragrammaton, the symbol of Di-
vine Light and Truth, is considered, in the
higher degrees of Masonry, like the "Orient"
in the lower, as the great source of true Ma-
sonic light ; wherefore Supreme Councils of
the Thirty-third Degree date their balustres,
or official documents, "near the B . 	B .' .," or
"Burning Bush," to intimate that they are, in
their own rite, the exclusive source of all
Masonic instruction .
Burnes, Sir James . 	A distinguished
Mason, and formerly Provincial Grand Mas-
ter of Western India under the Grand Lodge
of Scotland (1836-46) . In 1846 he was ap-
pointed Grand Master of Scottish Freema-
sons in India . He returned home in 1849,
and died in 1862, after serving for thirty years
in the Indian Medical Service . He was the
author of an interesting work entitled a
Sketch of the History of the Knights Tem-
plars . By James Burnes, LL .D ., 	F .R .S .,
Knight of the Royal Hanoverian G'uelphie
Order ; published at London, in 1840, in 74
60 pages in small quarto .
Burns, Robert . 	The celebrated Scottish
poet, of whose poetry William Pitt has said,
"that he could think of none since Shake-
speare's that had so much the appearance of
sweetly coming from nature," was born at
Kirk Alloway, near the town of Ayr, on the
25th of January, 1759, and died on the 22d of
July, 1796 . He was initiated into Freemasonry
in St . David's Lodge, Tarbolton, on July 4,
1781, and was at one time the Master of a Lodge
at Mauchline, where he presided with great
credit to himself, as appears from the following
remarks of the philosophic Dugald Stewart .
"In the course of the same season, I was led
by curiosity to attend for an hour or two a
Masonic Lodge in Mauchline, where Burns
presided . He had occasion to make some
short, unpremeditated compliments to differ-
ent individuals from whom he had no reason
to expect a visit, and everything he said was
happily conceived and forcibly as well as flu-
ently expressed ." The slanderous charge that
he acquired the habits of dissipation, to which

BUSINESS
he was unfortunately addicted, at the festive
meetings of the Masonic Lodges, has been tri-
umphantly refuted by a writer in the London
Freemasons' Magazine (vol . v ., 1? . 291), and by
the positive declarations of his brother Gil-
bert, who asserts that these habits were the
result of his introduction, several years after
his attendance on the Lodges, to the hospita-
ble literary society of the Scottish metropolis .
Burns consecrated some portion of his won-
derful poetic talent to the service of the Ma-
sonic Order, to which he appears always to
have been greatly attached . Among his Ma-
sonic poetic effusions every Mason is familiar
with that noble farewell to his Brethren of
Tarbolton Lodge, commencing,
"Adieu! a heart-warm, fond adieu!
Dear brothers of the mystic tie! "
On the 25th of January, 1820, a monument
was erected to his memory, by public sub-
scription, at his birthplace ; the corner-stone
of which was laid with appropriate Masonic
honors b the Deputy Grand Master of the
Ancient Mother Lodge Kilwinning, assisted
by all the Masonic Lodges in Ayrshire .
Business . 	Everything that is done in a
Masonic Lodge, relating to the initiation of
candidates into the several degrees, is called
its work or labor ; all other transactions such as
are common to other associations come under
the head of business, and they are governed
with some peculiar differences by rules of
C . The third letter of the English alpha-
bet, which was not known in the Hebrew,
Phoenician, or early Aryan languages .
Caaba or Kaaba . (Arabic, Ka'abah, cubic
building .) The square building or temple in
Mecca . 	More especially the small cubical
oratory within, held in adoration by the Mo-
hammedans, as containing the black stone
said to have been given by an angel to Abra-
ham . 	(See Allah .)
The inner as well as the outer structure re-
ceives its name from Ka'ab, cube .
Cabala . 	Now more correctly and gen-
erally written Kabbala, which see .
Cabirlc Mysteries . 	The Cabiri were gods
whose worship was first established in the
island of Samothrace, where the Cabiric Mys-
teries were practised . The gods called the Ca-
biri were originally two, and afterward four,
in number, and are supposed by Bryant (Anal .
Ant . Myth ., iii ., 342) to have referred to Noah
and his three sons, the Cabiric Mysteries
being a modification of the arkite worship .
In these mysteries there was a ceremony called
the "Cabiric Death," in which was repre-
sented amid the groans and tears and subse-
quent rejoicings of the initiates, the death and
C
CABIRIC 	125
order, as in other societies . (See Order, Rules
of .)
t
Byblos . 	An ancient city of Phoenicia, cele-
brated for the mystical worship of Adonis,
who was slain by a wild boar . It was situ-
ated on a river of the same name, whose waters,
becoming red at a certain season of the year by
the admixture of the clay which is at its source,
were said by the celebrants of the mysteries of
Adonis to be tinged with the blood of that
od . 	This city, so distinguished for the cele-
ration of these mysteries, was the Gebal of
the Hebrews, the birthplace of the Giblemites,
or stone-squarers, who wrought at the build-
ing of King Solomon's Temple ; and thus those
who have advanced the theory that Free-
masonry is the successor of the Ancient Mys-
teries, think that they find in this identity of
Byblos and Gebal another point of connection
between these Institutions .
By-Laws . Every subordinate Lodge is
permitted to make its own by-laws, provided
they do not conflict with the regulations of
the Grand Lodge, nor with the ancient usages
of the Fraternity . But of this, the Grand
Lodge is the only judge, and therefore the
original by-laws of every Lodge, as well as all
subsequent alterations of them, must be sub-
mitted to the Grand Lodge for approval and
confirmation before they can become valid,
having under the English Constitution pre-
viously been approved by the Provincial or
District Grand Master .
restoration to life of Cadmillus, the youngest
of the Cabiri . The legend recorded that he
was slain by his three brethren, who after-
ward fled with his virile parts in a mystic
basket . 	His body was crowned with flowers,
and was buried at the foot of Mount Olympus .
Clement of Alexandria speaks of the legend as
the sacred mystery of a brother slain by his
brethren, "frater trucidatus A fratribus ."
There is much perplexity connected with the
subject of these mysteries, but it is generally
supposed that they were instituted in honor
of Atys, the son of Cybele or Demeter, of
whom Cadmillus was but another name . Ac-
cording to Macrobius, Atys was one of the
appellations of the sun, and we know that the
mysteries were celebrated at the vernal equi-
nox . 	They lasted three days, during which
they represented in the person of Atys, or
Cadmillus, the enigmatical death of the sun
in winter, and his regeneration in the spring .
In all probability, in the initiation, the candi-
date passed through a drama, the subject of
which was the violent death of Atys . The
"Cabiric Death " was, in fact, a type of the
Hiramic, and the legend, so far as it can be
understood from the faint allusions of ancient

126 	CABLE
authors, was very analogous in spirit and de-
sign to that of the Third Degree of Freema-
sonry .
Many persons annually resorted to Samo-
thrace to be initiated into the celebrated mys-
teries, among whom are mentioned Cadmus,
Orpheus, Hercules, and Ulysses . Jamblichus
says, in his Life of Pythagoras, that from those
of Lemnos that sage derived much of his wis-
dom . The mysteries of the Cabiri were much
respected among the common people, and
great care was taken in their concealment .
The priests made use of a language peculiar
to the Rites .
The mysteries were in existence at Samo-
thrace as late as the eighteenth year of the
Christian era, at which time the Emperor
Germanicus embarked for that island, to be
initiated, but was prevented from accomplish-
ing his purpose by adverse winds .
Cable Tow . 	The word "tow" signifies,
properly, a line wherewith to draw . Richard-
son (Dict .) defines it as " that which tuggeth,
or with which we tug or draw ." A cable tow
is a rope or line for drawing or leading . The
word is purely Masonic, and in some of the
writers of the early part of the last century we
find the expression" cable rope ." Prichard so
uses it in 1730 . The German word for a cable
or rope is kabeltau, and thence our cable tow is
probably derived .
In its first inception, the cable tow seems to
have been used only as a physical means of
controlling the candidate, and such an inter-
pretation is still given in the Entered Ap-
prentice's Degree . But in the Second and Third
degrees a more modern symbolism has been
introduced, and the cable tow is in these
grades supposed to symbolize the covenant by
which all Masons are tied, thus reminding us
of the passage in Hosea (xi . 4), "I drew them
with cords of a man, with bands of love ."
Cable 	Tow's Length . 	Gfidicke says
that, "according to the ancient laws of Free-
masonry, every brother must attend his Lodge
if he is within the length of his cable tow ."
The old writers define the length of a cable
tow, which they sometimes called "a cable's
length," to be three miles for an Entered Ap-
prentice . But the expression is really sym-
bolic, and, as it was defined by the Baltimore
Convention in 1842, means the scope of a
man's reasonable ability .
Cabul . 	A district containing twenty cities
which Solomon gave to Hiram, King of Tyre,
for his assistance in the construction of the
Temple . Clark (Comm .) thinks it likely that
they were not given to Hiram so that they
should be annexed to his Tyrian dominions,
but rather to be held as security for the money
which he had advanced . This, however, is
merely conjectural . The district containing
them is Placed by Josephus in the northwest
part of Galilee, adjacent to Tyre . Hiram does
not appear to have been satisfied with the gift ;
why, is uncertain . Kitto thinks because they
were not situated on the coast . A Masonic
legend says because they were ruined and
dilapidated villages, and in token of his dis-
CADUCEUS
satisfaction, Hiram called the district Cabul .
The meaning of this word is not known . Jo-
sephus, probably by conjecture from the con-
text, says it means "unpleasing ." 	Hiller
(Onomast .) and, after him, Bates (Dict .) sup-
pose that X17 : is derived from the particle :,
as, and ~ :, nothing . 	The Talmudic deriva-
tion from CBL, tied with fetters, is Talmudi-
cally childish . The dissatisfaction of Hiram
and its results constitute the subject of the
legend of the degree of Intimate Secretary in
the Scottish Rite .
Cadet-Gassicourt, Charles Louis . 	The
author of the celebrated work entitled Le
Tombeau de Jacques Molay, which was pub-
lished at Paris, in 1796, and in which he at-
tempted, like Barruel and Robison, to show
that Freemasonry was the source and insti-
gator of all the political revolutions which at
that time were convulsing Europe . Cadet-
Gassicourt was himself the victim of political
persecution, and, erroneously attributing his
sufferings to the influences of the Masonic
Lodges in France, became incensed against
the Order, and this gave birth to his libelous
book . 	But subsequent reflection led him to
change his views, and he became an ardent
admirer of the Institution which he had for-
merly maligned . He sought initiation into
Freemasonry, and in 1805 was elected as
Master of the Lodge 1'Abeille in Paris . He
was born at Paris, January 23, 1769, and died
in the same city November 21, 1821 .
Cadmillus . 	The youngest of the Cabiri,
and as he is slain in the Cabiric Mysteries, he
becomes the analogue of the Builder in the
legend of Freemasonry .
Caduceus . 	The Caduceus was the magic
wand of the god Hermes . It was an olive staff
twined with fillets, which were gradually con-
verted to wings and serpents . Hermes, or Mer-
cury, was the messenger of Jove . Among his
numerous attributes, one of the most im-
portant was that of conducting disembodied
spirits to the other world, and, on necessary
occasions, of bringing them back . He was
the guide of souls, and the restorer of the dead
to life . Thus, Horace, in addressing him, says :
"Unspotted spirits you consign
To blissful seats and joys divine,
And powerful with your golden wand
The light unburied crowd command ."
Virgil also alludes to this attribute of the
magic wand when he is describing the flight of
Mercury on his way to bear Jove's warning
message to .	n	ews	:
"His wand he takes ; with this pale ghost he calls
From Pluto's realms, or sends to Tartarus'
shore ."
And Statius, imitating this passage, makes
the same allusion in his Thebaid (i ., 314), thus
translated by Lewis :
"He grasps the wand which draws from hollow
graves,
Or drives the trembling shades to Stygian
waves ;
With magic power seals the watchful eye
In slumbers soft or causes sleep to fly ."

CAMENTARIUS
The history of this Caduceus, or magic wand,
will lead us to its symbolism . Mercury, who
had invented the lyre, making it out of the
shell of the tortoise, exchanged it with Apollo
for the latter's magical wand . This wand was
simply an olive branch around which were
placed two fillets of ribbon . Afterward, when
Mercury was in Arcadia, he encountered two
serpents engaged in deadly combat . These he
separated with his wand ; hence the olive wand
became the symbol of peace, and the two fillets
were replaced by the two serpents, thus giving
to the Caduceus its well-known form of a staff,
around which two serpents are entwined 	.
Such is the legend ; but we may readily see
that in the olive, as the symbol of immortality,
borne as the attribute of Mercury, the giver of
life to the dead, we have a more ancient and
rofounder symbolism . The serpents, sym-
ls also of immortality, are appropriately
united with the olive wand . The legend also
accounts for a later and secondary symbolism
-that of peace .
The Caduceus then-the original meaning
of which word is a herald's staff-as the attri-
bute of a life-restoring God, is in its primary
meaning the symbol of immortality ; so in
Freemasonry the rod of the Senior Deacon, or
the Master of Ceremonies, is but an analogue
of the Hermean Caduceus . This officer, as
leading the aspirant through the forms of in-
itiation into his new birth or Masonic regener-
ation, and teaching him in the solemn cere-
monies of the Third Degree the lesson of eternal
life, may well use the magic wand as a repre-
sentation of it, which was the attribute of that
ancient deity who brought the dead into life .
Cwmentarlus . Latin . A builder of walls,
a mason, from ccementum, a rough, unhewn
stone as it comes from the quarry . In medie-
val Latin, the word is used to designate an
Operative Mason . Du Cange cites Magister
Caimentariorum as used to designate him who
presided over the building of edifices, that is,
the Master of the works . It has been adopted
by some modern writers as a translation of the
word Freemason . 	Its employment for that
purpose is perhaps more correct than that of
the more usual word latomus, which owes its
use to the authority of Thory .
Cagllostro . 	Of all the Masonic charla-
tans who flourished in the eighteenth century
the Count Cagliostro was most prominent,
whether we consider the ingenuity of his
schemes of deception, the extensive field of his
operations through almost every country of
Europe, or the distinguished character and
station of many of those whose credulity made
them his victims . The history of Masonry in
that century would not be complete without a
reference to this prince of Masonic impostors .
To write the history of Masonry in the eigh-
teenth century and to leave out Cagliostro,
would be like enacting the play of Hamlet and
leaving out the part of the Prince of Denmark .
And yet Carlyle has had occasion to complain
of the paucity of materials for such a work .
Indeed, of one so notorious as Cagliostro com-
paratively little is to be found in print . The
CAGLIOSTRO 	. 	127
only works upon which he who would write
his life must depend are aLife of him published
in London, 1787 ; Memoirs, in Paris, 1786 ;
and Memoirs Authentiques, Strasburg, 1786 ;
a Life, in Germany, published at Berlin,
1787 ; another in Italian, published at Rome in
1791 ; and a few fugitive pieces, consisting
chiefly of manifestoes of himself and his dis-
ciples .
Joseph Balsamo, subsequently known as
Count Cagliostro, was the son of Peter Bal-
samo and Felicia Braconieri, both of mean
extraction, and was born on the 8th of June,
1743, in the city of Palermo . Upon the death
of his father, he was taken under the protec-
tion of his maternal uncles, who caused to
be instructed in the elements of religion and
learning, by both of which he profited so little
that he eloped several times from the Semi-
nary of St . Roch, near Palermo, where he had
been placed for his instruction . At the age of
thirteen he was carried to the Convent of the
Good Brotherhood at Castiglione . 	There,
having assumed the habit of a novice, he was
placed under the tuition of the apothecary,
from whom he learned the principles of chem-
istry and medicine . His brief residence at the
convent was marked by violations of many
of its rules ; and finally, abandoning it alto-
gether, he returned to Palermo . There he con-
tinued his vicious courses, and was frequently
seized and imprisoned for infractions of the
law . 	At length, having cheated a goldsmith,
named Marano, of a large amount of gold, he
was compelled to flee from his native country .
He then repaired to Messina, where he be-
came acquainted with one Altotas, who pre-
tended to be a great chemist . Together they
proceeded to Alexandria in Egypt, where, by
means of certain chemical, or perhaps rather
by financial, operations, they succeeded in
collecting a considerable amount of money .
In 1776 Cagliostro appeared in London . Dur-
ing this visit, Cagliostro became connected
with the Order of Freemasonry . In the month
of April he received the degrees in Esperance
Lodge, No . 289, which then met at the King's
Head Tavern . Cagliostro did not join the
Order with disinterested motives, or at least
he determined in a very short period after his
initiation to use the Institution as an instru-
ment for the advancement of his personal in-
terests . Here he is said to have invented, in
1777, that grand scheme of imposture under
the name of "Egyptian Masonry," by the
propagation of which he subsequently became
so famous as the great Masonic charlatan of
his age .
London did not fail to furnish him with a
fertile field for his impositions, and the English
Masons seemed noway reluctant to become
his dupes ; but, being ambitious for the ex-
tension of his Rite, and anxious for the greater
income which it promised, he again passed
over to the Continent, where he justly antici-
pated abundant success in its propagation .
This Egyptian Masonry constituted the
great pursuit of the rest of his life, and was the
instrument which he used for many years to

128 	CAHIER
make dupes of thousands of credulous per-
sons .
During Cagliostro's residence in England,
on his last visit, he was attacked by the editor
Morand, in the Courier de l'Europe, in a series
of abusive articles, to which Cagliostro re-
plied in a letter to the English people . But,
although he had a few Egyptian Lodges in
London under his government, he appears,
perhaps from Morand's revelations of his
character and life, to have lost his popularity,
and he left England permanently in May,
1787 .
He went to Savoy, Sardinia, and other
places in the south of Europe, and at last, in
Ma , 1789, by an act of rash temerity, pro-
ce ed to Rome, where he organized an
Egyptian Lodge under the very shadow of the
Vatican . But this was more than the Church,
which had been excommunicating Free-
masons for fifty years, was willing to endure .
On the 27th of December of that year, on the
festival of St . John the Evangelist, to whom
he had dedicated his Lodges, the Holy In-
quisition arrested him, and locked him up in
the castle of San Angelo . There, after such a
trial as the Inquisition is wont to give to the
accused-in which his wife is said to have been
the principal witness against him-he was
convicted of having formed "societies and
conventicles of Freemasonry ." His manu-
script entitled Maconnerie Egyptienne was
ordered to be burned by the public exe-
cutioner, and he himself was condemned to
death ; a sentence which the Pope subse-
quently commuted for that of perpetual
imprisonment . Cagliostro appealed to the
French Constituent Assembly, but of course
in vain . Thenceforth no more is seen of
him . 	For four years this adventurer, who had
filled during his life so large a space in the
world's history-the associate of princes,
prelates, and philosophers ; the inventor of
a spurious Rite, which had, however, its thou-
sands of disciples-languished within the
gloomy walls of the prison of St . Leo, in the
Duchy of Urbino, and at length in the year
1795, in a fit of apoplexy, bade the world
adieu .
Cahler . 	French . A number of sheets of
parchment or paper fastened together at one
end . 	The word is used by French Masons to
designate a small book printed, or in manu-
script, containing the ritual of a degree . The
word has been borrowed from French history,
where it denotes the reports and proceedings
of certain assemblies, such as the clergy, the
States-General, etc .
Cairns . 	Celtic, earns . Heaps of stones of
a conical form erected by the Druids . Some
suppose them to have been sepulchral monu-
ments, others altars . They were undoubtedly
of a religious character, since sacrificial fires
were lighted upon them, and processions were
made around them . These processions were
analogous to the circumambulations in Ma-
sonry, and were conducted, like them, with
reference to the apparent course of the sun .l
Thus, Toland, in his Letters on the Celtic Re-I
CALENDAR
ligion (Let . II ., xvii .), says of these mystical
processions, that the people of the Scottish
islands "never come to the ancient sacrificing
and fire-hallowing Carns but they walk three
times round them from east to west, according
to the course of the sun . This sanctified tour,
or round by the south, is called Deaseal, as
the unhallowed contrary one by the north,
Tuapholl" ; and he says that Deaseal is de-
rived from "Deas, the right (understanding
hand), and soil, one of the ancient names of
the sun, the right hand in this round being
ever next the heap ." In all this the Mason will
be reminded of the Masonic ceremony of cir-
cumambulation around the altar and the rules
which govern it .
Calatrava, Military Order of . 	Insti-
tuted 1158, during the reign of Sancho III .,
King of Castile, who conquered and gave the
Castle of Calatrava, an important fortress of
the Moors of Andalusia, to the Knights Tem-
plars, who subsequently relinquished their
possession of it to the king . The king, being
disappointed in the ability of the Templars to
retain it, then offered the defense of the place
to Don Raymond of Navarre, Abbot of St .
Mary of Hitero, a Cistercian convent, who
accepted it . Don Raymond being successful,
the king gave the place to him and his com-
panions, and instituted the Order of Cala-
trava . A Grand Master was appointed and
approved of by the Pope, Alexander III .,
1164, which was confirmed by Innocent I II .
i n 1198 . The knights had been granted the
power of electing their own Grand Master ;
but on the death of Don Garcias Lopez de
Pardella, 1489, Ferdinand and Isabella an-
nexed the Grand Mastership to the Crown of
Castile, which was sanctioned by Pope Inno-
cent VIII .
Calcott, Wellins . A distinguished Ma-
sonic writer of the eighteenth century, and the
author of a work published in 1769, under the
title of A Candid Disquisition of the Prin-
ciples and Practices of the Most Ancient and
Honourable Society of Free and Accepted
Masons ; together with some Strictures on the
Origin, Nature, and Design of that Institution,
in which he has traced Masonry from its
origin, explained its symbols and hiero-
glyphics, its social virtues and advantages,
suggested the propriety of building halls for
the peculiar and exclusive practise of Ma-
sonry, and reprehended its slanderers with
great but judicious severity . This was the
first extended effort to illustrate philosophic-
ally the science of Masonry, and was followed,
a few years after, by Hutchinson's admirable
work ; so that Oliver justly says that "Cal-
cott opened the mine of Masonry, and Hutch-
inson worked it ."
Calendar . 	Freemasons, in affixing dates
to their official documents, never make use of
the Common Epoch or Vulgar Era, but have
one peculiar to themselves, which, however,
varies in the different rites . Era and epoch
are, in this sense, synonymous .
Masons of the York, American, and French
Rites, that is to say, the Masons of England,

CALENDAR
Scotland, Ireland, 	France, Germany, and
America date from the creation of the world,
calling it "Anno Lucis," which they abbrevi-
ate A .- . L .' ., signifying in the Year of Light .
Thus with them the year 1872 is A .' . L . • .
5872 . This they do, not because they believe
Freemasonry to be coeval with the creation,
but with a symbolic reference to the light of
Masonry .
In the Scottish Rite, the epoch also begins
from the date of the creation, but Masons of
that Rite, using the Jewish chronology, would
call the year 1872 A .' . M . • . or Anno Mundi
(in the Year of the World) 5632 . They some-
times use the initials A .' . H .- ., signifying Anno
Hebraico, or, in the Hebrew year . They have
also adopted the Hebrew months, and the
year, therefore, begins with them in the mid-
dle of Septembr . (See Months, Hebrew .)
Masons of the York and American Rites
begin the year on the 1st of Januar, , but
in the French Rite it commences on the 1st
of March, and instead of the months receiving
their usual names, they are designated numer-
ically, as first, second, third, etc . Thus, the
1st of January, 1872, would be styled, in a
French Masonic document, the "1st day of
the 11th Masonic month, Anne Lucis, 5872 ."
The French sometimes, instead of the initials
A . - . L .- ., use Pan de la V .' . L .' ., or Vraie Lu-
miere, that is, Year of True Light .
Royal Arch Masons commence their epoch
with the year in which Zerubbabel began to
build the second Temple, which was 530 years
before Christ . Their style for the year 1872 is,
therefore, A .' . Inv . - ., that is, Anno Inven-
tionis, or, in the Year of the Discovery,
2402 .
Royal and Select Masters very often make
use of the common Masonic date, Anno Lucis,
but properly they should date from the year
in which Solomon's Temple was completed ;
and their style would then be, Anne Deposi-
tionis, or, in the Year of the Deposite, and
they would date the year 1872 as 2872 .
Knights Templars use the epoch of the or-
ganization of their Order in 1118. Their style
for the year 1872 is A .' . 0 .%, Anno Ordinis, or,
in the Year of the Order, 754 .
We subjoin, for the convenience of refer-
ence, the rules for discovering these different
dates .
1 . To find the Ancient Craft date . Add 4000
to the Vulgar Era . Thus 1872 and 4000 are
5872 .
2 . To find the date of the Scottish Rite . 	Add
3760 to the Vulgar Era . Thus 1872 and 3760
are 5632 . After September add one year
more
3 .
.
To find the date of Royal Arch Masonry .
Add 530 to the Vulgar Era . Thus 530 and 1872
are 2402 .
4 . To find the Royal and Select Masters' date .
Add 1000 to the Vulgar Era . Thus 1000 and
1872 are 2872 .
5. To find the Knights Templars' date . Sub-
tract 1118 from the Vulgar Era . Thus 1118
from 1872 is 754 .
The following will show, in one view, the
CALLING 	129
date of the year 1872 in all the branches of the
Order : 	-
Year of the Lord, A .D . 1872-Vulgar Era .
Year of Light, A .' . L .' . 5872-Ancient Craft
Masonry .
Year of the World, A .' . M .' . 5632-Scottish
Rite .
Year of the Discovery, A .' . I .' . 2402-Royal
Arch Masonry .
Year of the Deposite, A .' . Dep .' . 2872-
Royal and Select Masters .
Year of the Order, A .' . O .' . 754-Knights
Templars .
California . 	The Grand Lodge of Cali-
fornia was organized on the 19th of April,
1850, in the city of Sacramento, by the dele-
gates of three legally constituted Lodges
working, at the time, under charters from the
Grand Lodges of the District of Columbia,
Connecticut, and Missouri . Its present seat
is at San Francisco, and there are 308 Lodges
under its jurisdiction . The Grand Chapter and
Grand Commandery were organized in 1854 .
Calling Off . A technical term in Masonry,
which signifies the temporary suspension of
labor in a Lodge without passing through the
formal ceremony of closing . The full form of
the expression is to call from labor to refresh-
ment, and it took its rise from the former cus-
tom of dividing the time spent in the Lodge
between the work of Masonry and the moder-
ate enjoyment of the banquet . The banquet
formed in the last century an indispensable
part of the arrangements of a Lodge meeting .
"At a certain hour of the evening," says
Brother Oliver, "with certain ceremonies, the
Lodge was called from labor to refreshment,
when the brethren enjoyed themselves with
decent merriment ." That custom no longer
exists ; and although in England almost al-
ways, and in this country occasionally, the
labors of the Lodge are concluded with a ban-
quet ; yet the Lodge is formally closed before
the Brethren proceed to the table of refresh-
ment . Calling off in American Lodges is now
only used, in a certain ceremony of the Third
Degree, when it is desired to have another
meeting at a short interval, and the Mas-
ter desires to avoid the tediousness of closing
and opening the Lodge . Thus, if the business
of the Lodge at its regular meeting has so accu-
mulated that it cannot be transacted in one
evening, it has become the custom to call off
until a subsequent evening, when the Lodge,
instead of being opened with the usual cere-
mony, is simply "called on," and the latter
meeting is considered as only a continuation
of the former . This custom is very generally
adopted in Grand Lodges at their Annual Com-
munications, which are opened at the begin-
ning of the session, called off from day to day,
and finally closed at its end . I do not know
that any objection has ever been advanced
against this usage in Grand Lodges, because it
seems necessary as a substitute for the ad-
journment, which is resorted to in other legis-
lative bodies, but which is not admitted in
Masonry . But much discussion has taken
place in reference to the practise of calling off

130 	CALLING
in Lodges, some authorities sustaining and
others condemning it . Thus, twenty years
ago, the Committee of Correspondence of the
Grand Lodge of Mississippi proposed this
question : "In case of excess of business, can-
not the unfinished be laid over until the next
or another day, and must the Lodge be closed
in form, and opened the next, or the day des-
ignated for the transaction of that business? "
To this question some authorities, and among
others Brother C . W . Moore (Mag ., vol . xii .,
No . 10), reply in the negative, while other
equally good jurists differfromthem in opinion .
The difficulty seems to be in this, that if the
regular meeting of the Lodge is closed in form,
the subsequent meeting becomes a special
one, and many things which could be done at
a regular communication cease to be admis-
sible . The recommendation, therefore of
Brother Moore, that the Lodge should be
closed, and, if the business be unfinished, that
the Master shall call a special meeting to com-
plete it, does not meet the difficulty, because
it is a well-settled principle of Masonic law
that a special meeting cannot interfere with
the business of a preceding regular one .
As, then, the mode of briefly closing by ad-
journment is contrary to Masonic law and
usage, and cannot, therefore, be resorted to,
as there is no other way except by calling off
to continue the character of a regular meeting,
and as, during the period that the Lodge is
called off it is under the government of the
Junior Warden, and Masonic discipline is
thus continued, I am clearly of opinion that
calling off from day to day for the purpose of
continuing work or business is, as a matter of
convenience, admissible . The practise may
indeed be abused . But there is a well-known
legal maxim which says, Ex abusu non ar-
guitur in usum . "No argument can be drawn
from the abuse of a thing against its use ."
Thus, a Lodge cannot be called off except for
continuance of work and business, nor to an
indefinite day, for there must be a good reason
for the exercise of the practise, and the Breth-
ren present must be notified before dispersing
of the time of reassembling ; nor can a Lodge
at one regular meeting be called off until the
next, for no regular meeting of a Lodge is per-
mitted to run into another, but each must be
closed before its successor can be opened .
Calling On . 	When a Lodge that is called
off at a subsequent time resumes work or busi-
ness, it is said to be "called on ." The full
expression is " called on from refreshment to
labor ."
Calumny . 	See Back .
Calvary . 	Mount Calvary is a small hill or
eminence, situated due west from Mount
Moriah, on which the Temple of Solomon was
built . 	It was originally a hillock of notable
eminence, but has, in more modern times,
been greatly reduced by the excavations made
in it for the construction of the Church of the
Holy Sepulcher . There are several coinci-
dences which identify Mount Calvary with
the small hill where the "newly-made grave,"
referred to in the Third Degree, was discovered
CAMPE
by the weary brother . Thus, Mount Calvary
was a small hill ; it was situated in a westward
direction from the Temple, and near Mount
Moriah ; and it was on the direct road from
Jerusalem to Joppa, and is the very spot where
a weary brother, traveling on that road, would
find it convenient to sit down to rest and re-
fresh himself ; it was outside the gate of the
Temple ; it has at least one cleft in the rock, or
cave, which was the place which subsequently
became the sepulcher of our Lord . Hence
Mount Calvary has always retained an im-
portant place in the legendary history of Free-
masonry, and there are many traditions con-
nected with it that are highly interesting in
their import .
One of these traditions is, that it was the
burial-place of Adam, in order, says the old
legend, that where he lay, who effected the
ruin of mankind, there also might the Sa-
vior of the world suffer, die, and be buried .
Sir R . Torkington, who published a pilgrim-
age to Jerusalem in 1517, says that "under the
Mount of Calvary is another chapel of our
Blessed Lady and St . John the Evangelist,
that was called Golgotha ; and there, right
under the mortise of the cross, was found the
head of our forefather, Adam ." Golgotha, it
will be remembered, means, in Hebrew, "the
place of a skull " ; and there may be some con-
nection between this tradition and the name
of Golgotha by which, the Evangelists in-
form us, in le time of Christ Mount Calvary
was known . 	Calvary, or Calvaria, has the
same signification in Latin .
Another tradition states that it was in the
bowels of Mount Calvary that Enoch erected
his nine-arched vault, and deposited on the
foundation-stone of Masonry that Ineffable
Name, whose investigation, as a symbol of
Divine truth, is the great object of Speculative
Masonry .
A third tradition details the subsequent dis-
covery of Enoch's deposit, by King Solomon,
whilst making excavations in Mount Calvary
during the building of the Temple .
On this hallowed spot was Christ the Re-
deemer slain and buried . It was there that,
rising on the third day from his sepulcher, he
gave, by that act, the demonstrative evidence
of the resurrection of the body and the im-
mortality of the soul .
And it is this spot that has been selected,
in the legendary history of Freemasonry, to
teach the same sublime truth, the develop-
ment of which by a symbol evidently forms
the design of the Third or Master's Degree .
Camp . 	A portion of the paraphernalia
decorated with tents, flags, and pennons of a
Consistory of Sublime Princes of the Royal
Secret, or Thirty-second Degree of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite . It constitutes
the tracing board, and is worn on the apron of
the degree . It is highly symbolic, and repre-
sents an imaginary Masonic camp . Its sym-
bolism is altogether esoteric .
Campe, Joachim Heinrich . A Doctor
of Theology, and Director of Schools in Des-
sau and Hamburg, who was born in 1740

CANADA
and died October 22, 1818 . He was the author
of many works on philosophy and education,
and was a learned and zealous Mason, as is
shown in his correspondence with Leasing .
Canada . 	Upon the advent of Confedera-
tion, July 1, 1867, local control in each Prov-
ince for the government of the Masonic Fra-
ternity of the Dominion took a strong hold as
a predominant idea, and prevailed . Each
Province has now a Grand Lodge, and in order
of their organization are as follows : Canada,
having jurisdiction only in Ontario, 1855 ;
Nova Scotia, 1866 ; New Brunswick, 1867 ;
Quebec, 1869 ; British Columbia, 1871 ; Man-
itoba, 1875 ; Prince Edward Island, 1875 ;
Alberta, 1905 ; Saskatchewan, 1906 . The
first marks of the Ancient Craftsman have
been found in Nova Scotia . A mineralogical
survey in 1827 found on the shore of Goat
Island in the Annapolis Basin, partly covered
with sand, a slab of rock 23 X 2 feet, bearing
on it those well-known Masonic emblems,
"the Square and Compasses," and the date
1606 . 	Who were the Craftsmen and how
the stone came there, must be left to conjec-
ture . 	[Will H . Whyte, P . G . M . . . K . T .
of Canada .]
Cancellarlus . 	An office of high rank and
responsibility among the Knights Templar
of the Middle Ages, performing the duties of,
or similar to, the Chancellor .
Candidate . 	An applicant for admission
into Masonry is called a candidate . The Latin
candidates means clothed in white, candidis
vestibus indutus . 	In ancient Rome, he who
sought office from the people wore a white
shining robe of a peculiar construction, flow-
ing open in front, so as to exhibit the wounds
he had received in his breast . From the color
of his robe or toga candida, he was called can-
didatus, whence the word candidate . The der-
ivation will serve to remind the Mason of the
purity of conduct and character which should
distinguish all those who are candidates for
admission into the Order . The qualifications
of a candidate in Masonry are somewhat
peculiar . 	He must be free-born (under the
English Constitution it is enough that he is a
freeman), under no bondage, of at least twenty-
one- years of age, in the possession of sound
senses, free from any physical defect or dis-
memberment, and of irreproachable manners,
or, as it is technically termed, "under the
tongue of good report ." No Atheist, eunuch,
or woman can be admitted . The requisites as
to age, sex, and soundness of body have ref-
erence to the operative character of the In-
stitution . We can only expect able workmen
in able-bodied men . The mental and religious
qualifications refer to the duties and obliga-
tions which a Freemason contracts . 	An
idiot could not understand them, and an Athe-
ist would not respect them . Even those who
possess all these necessary qualifications can
be admitted only under certain regulations
which differ under different Masonic Con-
stitutions .
Candidates, Advancement of . 	See
Advancement, Hurried .
CANOPY 	131
Candlestick, Golden . 	The golden can-
dlestick of seven branches, which is a part of
the furniture of a Royal Arch Chapter, is de-
rived from "the holy candlestick " which
Moses was instructed to construct of beaten
gold for the use of the tabernacle . Smith (Diet .
of the Bible) thus abbreviates Lightfoot's ex-
planation of the description given in Exodus :
"The foot of it was gold, from which went up
a shaft straight, which was the middle light .
Near the foot was a golden dish wrought
almondwise ; and a little above that a golden
knop, and above that a golden flower . Then
two branches one on each side bowed,-and
coming up as high as the middle shaft . On
each of them were three golden cups placed
almondwise, in sharp, scallop-ahell fashion ;
above which was a golden knop, a golden
flower, and the socket . Above the branches
on the middle shaft was a golden boss, above
which rose two shafts more ; above the com-
ing out of these was another boss and two more
shafts, and then on the shaft upwards were
three golden scallop-cups, a knop and a
flower ; so that the heads of the branches stood
an equal height ." In the tabernacle, the can-
dlestick was placed opposite the table of shew-
bread, which it was intended to illumine in an
oblique position, so that the lamps looted to
the east and south . What became of the
candlestick between the time of Moses and
that of Solomon is unknown ; but it does not
appear to have been present in the first Tem-
ple, which was lighted by ten golden candle-
sticks similarly embossed, which were con-
nected by golden chains and formed a sort of
railing before the veil .
These ten candlesticks became the spoil of
the Chaldean conqueror at the time of the
destruction of the Temple, and could not have
been among the articles afterward restored
by Cyrus ; for in the second Temple, built by
Zerubbabel, we find only a single candlestick
of seven branches, like that of the tabernacle .
Its form has been perpetuated on the Arch of
Titus, on which it was sculptured with other
articles taken by that monarch, and carried
to Rome as spolia opima, after he had de-
stroyed the Herodian Temple . This is the
candlestick which is represented as a decora-
tion in a Royal Arch Chapter .
In Jewish symbolism, the seven branches
were supposed by some to refer to the seven
planets and by others to the seventh day or
Sabbath	. 	The primitive Christians made it
allusive to Christ as the "light of the world"
and in this sense it is a favorite symbol in
early Christian art . In Masonry it seems to
have no symbolic meaning, unless it be the
general one of light ; but is used in a Royal
Arch Chapter simply to indicate that the room
is a representation of the tabernacle erected
near the ruins of the first Temple, for the pur-
pose of temporary worship during the build-
ing of the second, and in which tabernacle this
candlestick is supposed to have been present .
Canopy . 	Oliver says that in the Masonic
processions of the Continent the Grand Mas-
ter walks under a gorgeous canopy of blue,

132 	CANOPY
purple, and crimson silk, with gold fringes and
tassels, borne upon staves, painted purple
and ornamented with gold, by eight of the old-
est Master Masons present ; and the Masters
of private Lodges walk under canopies of
light blue silk with silver tassels and fringes,
borne by four members of their own respec-
tive companies . The canopies are in the form
of an oblong square, and are in length six feet,
in breadth and height three feet, having a
semicircular covering . The framework should
be of cedar, and the silken covering ought to
hang down two feet on each side . This is,
properly speaking, a Baldachin . 	(See Bal-
dachin .)
Canopy, Celestial . Ritualists seem di-
vided in the use of the terms "Clouded Can-
opy " and "Celestial Canopy" in the First
Degree . (For the former, see Canopy, Clouded,
and Covering of the Lodge .) It would seem
that the unclouded grandeur of . the heavens
should not be without advocates .
Sir John Lubbock gives the following de-
scription of the heavens filled with stars in
connection with the latest discoveries : "Like
the sand of the sea, the stars of heaven are
used as a symbol of numbers . We now know
that our earth is but a fraction of one part of,
at least 75,000,000 worlds .- But this is not all .
In addition to the luminous heavenly bodies,
we cannot doubt there are countless others
invisible to us from their great distance,
smaller size, or feebler light ; indeed, we know
that there are many dark bodies which now
emit no light, or comparatively little . Thus
the floor of heaven is not only `thick inlaid
with patines of bright gold,' but studded also
with extinct stars, once probably as brilliant
as our own sun ."
Canopy, Clouded . 	The clouded canopy,
or starry-decked heaven, is a symbol of the
First Degree, and is of such important signifi-
cance that Lenning calls it a "fundamental
symbol of Freemasonry ." In the lectures of
the York Rite, the clouded canopy is de-
scribed as the covering of the Lodge, teaching
us, as Krause says, "that the primitive Lodge
is confined within no shut up building, but
that it is universal, and reaches to heaven,
and especially teaching that in every clime
under heaven Freemasonry has its seat ."
And Gadicke says, "Every Freemason knows
that by the clouded canopy we mean the
heavens, and that it teaches how widely ex-
tended is our sphere of usefulness . There is
no portion of the inhabited world in which
our labor cannot be carried forward, as there
is no portion of the globe without its clouded
canopy ." Hence, then, the German interpre-
tation of the symbol is that it denotes the uni-
versality of Freemasonry, an interpretation
that does not precisely accord with the Eng-
lish and American systems, in which the doc-
trine of universality is symbolized by the form
and extent of the Lodge . The clouded canopy
as the covering of the Lodge seems rather to
teach the doctrine of aspiration for a higher
sphere ; it is thus defined in this work under
the head of Covering of the Lodge, which see .
CAPITULAR
Canzler, Carl Christian . A librarian of
Dresden, born September 30, 1733, died Oc-
tober 16, 1786 . He was an earnest, learned
Freemason, who published in a literary journal,
conducted by himself and A . G . Meissner at
Leipsic, in 1783-85, under the title of Fur
altere Litteratur and neuere Lecture, many
interesting articles on the subject of Free-
masonry .
Cape-Stone, or, as it would more cor-
rectly be called, the cope-stone (but the
former word has been consecrated to us by
universal Masonic usage), is the topmost
stone of a building . To bring it forth, there-
fore, and to place it in its destined position,
is significative that the building is completed,
which event is celebrated, even by the Oper-
ative Masons of the present day, with great
signs of rejoicing . Flags are hoisted on the
top of every edifice by the builders engaged in
its construction, as soon as they have reached
the topmost post, and thus finished their
labors . This is the "celebration of the cape-
stone"-the celebration of the completion of
the building-when tools are laid aside, and
rest and refreshment succeed, for a time,
labor . This is the event in the history of the
Temple which is commemorated in the degree
of Most Excellent Master, the sixth in the
American Rite . 	The day set apart for the
celebration of the cape-stone of the Temple is the
day devoted to rejoicing and thanksgiving for
the completion of that glorious structure .
Hence there seems to be an impropriety in the
ordinary use of the Mark Master's keystone
in the ritual of the Most Excellent Master .
That keystone was deposited in silence and
secrecy ; while the cape-stone, as the legend
and ceremonies tell us, was placed in its posi-
tion in the presence of all the Craft .
Capitular Degrees . 	The degrees con-
ferred under the charter of an American Royal
Arch Chapter, which are Mark Master, Past
Master, Most Excellent Master, and Royal
Arch Mason . The capitular degrees are al-
most altogether founded on and composed of
a series of events in Masonic history . Each
of them has attached to it some tradition or
legend which it is the design of the degree to
illustrate, and the memory of which is pre-
served in its ceremonies and instructions .
Most of these legends are of symbolic signifi-
cation . But this is their interior sense . In
their outward and ostensible meaning, they
appear before us simply as legends . To retain
these legends in the memory of Masons ap-
pears to have been the primary design in the
establishment of the higher degrees ; and as
the information intended to be communi-
cated in these degrees is of an historical char-
acter, there can of course be but little room for
symbols or for symbolic instruction ; the pro-
fuse use of which would rather tend to an
injury than to a benefit, by complicating the
purposes of the ritual and confusing the mind
of the aspirant . These remarks refer exclu-
sively to the Mark and Most Excellent Mas-
ter's Degree of the American Rite, but are not
so applicable to the Royal Arch, which is

CAPITULAR
eminently symbolic . The legends of the sec-
ond Temple, and the lost word, the peculiar
legends of that degree, are among the most
prominent symbols of the Masonic system .
Capitular Masonry . 	The Masonry con-
ferred in a Royal Arch Chapter of the York
and American Rites . There are Chapters in
the Ancient and Accepted, Scottish, and in the
French and other Rites ; but the Masonry
therein conferred is not called capitular .
Capitular Statistics . 	See Statistics 	of
Capitular Masonry .
Capripede Ratter et Lucifuge . 	A bur-
lesque dining degree, mentioned in the col-
lection of Fustier . (Thory, Acta Latomorum,
i ., 298 .)
Captain-General . 	The third officer in a
Commandery of Knights Templar . He pre-
sides over the Commandery in the absence of
his superiors, and is one of its representatives
in the Grand Commandery . His duties are
to see that the council chamber and asylum
are duly prepared for the business of the meet-
ings, and to communicate all orders issued by
the Grand Council . His station is on the left
of the Grand Commander, and his jewel is a
level surmounted by a cock . (See Cock .)
Captain of the Guard . 	The sixth officer
in a Council of Royal and Select Masters . In
the latter degree he is said to represent Aza-
riah, the son of Nathan, who had command of
the officers of the king's household . (1 Kings
iv . 5 .) His duties correspond in some measure
with those of a Senior Deacon in the primary
degrees . His post is, therefore, on the right of
the throne, and his jewel is a trowel and battle-
ax within a triangle .
Captain of the Host . The fourth officer
in, a Royal Arch Chapter . He represents the
general or leader of the Jewish troops who re-
turned from Babylon, and who was called
"Sar el hatzaba," and was equivalent to a
modern general . The word Host in the title
means army . 	He sits on the right of the
Council in front, and wears a white robe and
cap or helmet, with a red sash, and is armed
with a sword . His jewel is a triangular plate,
on which an armed soldier is engraved .
Captivity . 	The Jews reckoned their na-
tional captivities as four :-the Babylonian,
Medean, Grecian, and Roman . The present
article will refer only to the first, when there
was a forcible deportation of the inhabitants
of Jerusalem by Nebuzaradan, the general of
King Nebuchadnezzar, and their detention at
Babylon until the reign of Cyrus, which alone
is connected with the history of Masonry, and
is commemorated in the Royal Arch Degree .
Between that portion of the ritual of the
Royal Arch which refers to the destruction of
the first Temple, and that subsequent part
which symbolizes the building of the second,
there is an interregnum (if we may be allowed
the term) in the ceremonial of the degree,
which must be considered as a long interval
in history, the filling up of which, like the
interval between the acts of a play, must be
left to the imagination of the spectator .
This interval represents the time passed in
CAPTIVITY 	1 3 3
the captivity of the Jews at Babylon . That
captivity lasted for seventy years-from the
reign of Nebuchadnezzar until that of Cyrus
-although but fifty-two of these years are
commemorated in the Royal Arch Degree .
This event took place in the year 588 n .e . It
was not, however, the beginning of the "sev-
enty years' captivity," which had been fore-
told by the prophet Jeremiah, which com-
menced eighteen years before . The captives
were conducted to Babylon . What was the
exact number removed we have no means of
ascertaining . We are led to believe, from cer-
tain passages of Scripture, that the deporta-
tion was not complete . 	Calmet says that
Nebuchadnezzar carried away only the prin-
cipal inhabitants, the warriors and artisans of
every kind, and that he left the husbandmen,
the laborers, and, in general, the poorer classes,
that constituted the great body of the people .
Among the prisoners of distinction, Josephus
mentions the high priest, Seraiah, and Zepha-
niah, the priest that was next to him, with
the three rulers that guarded the Temple, the
eunuch who was over the armed men, seven
friends of Zedekiah, his scribe, and sixty other
rulers . Zedekiah, the king, had attempted to
escape previous to the termination of the siege,
but being pursued, was captured and carried
to Riblah, the headquarters of Nebuchad-
nezzar, where, having first been compelled to
behold the slaughter of his children, his eyes
were then put out, and he was conducted in
chains to Babylon .
A Masonic tradition informs us that the
captive Jews were bound by their conquerors
with triangular chains, and that this was done
by the Chaldeans as an additional insult, be-
cause the Jewish Masons were known to es-
teem the triangle as an emblem of the sacred
name of God, and must have considered its
appropriation to the form of their fetters as a
desecration of the Tetragrammaton .
Notwithstanding the ignominious mode of
their conveyance from Jerusalem and the vin-
dictiveness displayed by their conqueror 'in
the destruction of their city and Temple , they
do not appear, on their arrival at Babylon, to
have been subjected to any of the extreme
rigors of slavery . They were distributed into
various parts of the empire, some remaining in
the city, while others were sent into the prov-
inces . The latter probably devoted themselves
to agricultural pursuits, while the former were
engaged in commerce or in the labors of archi-
tecture . 	Smith says that the captives were
treated not as slaves but as colonists . They
were permitted to retain their personal prop-
erty, and even to purchase lands and erect
houses . Their civil and religious government
was not utterly destroyed, for they kept up a
regular succession of kings and high priests,
one of each of whom returned with them, as
will be seen hereafter, on their restoration .
Some of the principal captives were advanced
to offices of dignity and power in the royal
palace, and were permitted to share in the
councils of state . Their prophets, Daniel and
Ezekiel, with their associates, preserved

1 34 	CAPUCHIN
among their countrymen the pure doctrines
of their religion . Although they had neither
place nor time of national gathering, nor tem-
ple, and therefore offered no sacrifices, yet
they observed the Mosaic laws with respect
to the rite of circumcision . They preserved
their tables of genealogy and the true suc-
cession to the throne of David . The rightful
heir being called the Head of the Captivity,
Jehoiachin, who was the first king of Judea
carried captive to Babylon, was succeeded by
his son Shealtiel, and he by his son Zerub-
babel, who was the Head of the Captivity, or
nominal prince of Judea at the close of the
captivity . . The due succession of the high-
priesthood was also preserved, for Jehosadek,
who was the high priest carried by Nebuchad-
nezzar to Babylon, where he died during the
captivity, was succeeded by his eldest son,
Joshua . The Jewish captivity terminated in
the first year of the reign of Cyrus, B .c . 536 .
Cyrus, from his conversations with Daniel
and the other Jewish captives of learning and
piety, as well as from his perusal of their sacred
books, more especially the prophecies of
Isaiah, had become imbued with a knowledge
of true religion, and hence had even publicly
announced to his subjects his belief in the God
"which the nation of the Israelites wor-
shipped ." 	He was consequently impressed
with an earnest desire to fulfil the prophetic
declarations of which he was the subject, and
to rebuild the Temple of Jerusalem . Cyrus
therefore issued a decree by which the Jews
were permitted to return to their country .
According to Milman, 42,360 besides servants
availed themselves of this permission, and re-
turned to Jerusalem under Zerubbabel their
prince and Joshua their high priest, and thus
ended the first or Babylonian captivity, the
only one which has any connection with the
legends of Freemasonry as commemorated in
the Royal Arch Degree .
Capuchin . 	One of the monks of the Order
of St . Francis . They went barefooted, were
long-bearded, and wore a gown or cloak of
dark color made like a woman's garment with
a hood .
Carauslus . 	A Roman emperor, who as-
sumed the purple A .D . 287 . 	Of him Preston
gives the following account, which may or
may not be deemed apocryphal, according to
the taste and inclination of the reader : "By
assuming the character of a Mason, he ac-
quired the love and esteem of the most en-
lightened part of his subjects . He possessed
real merit, encouraged learning and learned
men, and improved the country in the civil
arts . In order to establish an empire in Brit-
ain, he brought into his dominions the best
workmen and artificers from all parts ; all of
whom, under his auspices, enjoyed peace and
tranquillity . Among the first class of his
favorites he enrolled the Masons : for their
* So says the Talmud, but Smith (Diet . of the
Bible) affirms that the assertion is unsupported
by proof . The Masonic legends conform to the
Talmudic statement .
CARDINAL
tenets he professed the highest veneration, and
appointed Albanus, his steward, the princi al
superintendent of their assemblies . Under s
patronage, Lodges and conventions of the
Fraternity were formed, and the rites of Mar
sonry regularly practised . 	To enable the
Masons to hold a general council, to establish
their own government and correct errors
among themselves, he granted to them a char-
ter, and commanded Albanus to preside over
them in person as Grand Master ." (Illustra-
tions, ed . 1812, p . 142 .) Anderson also gives
the legend of Carausius in the second edition
of his Constitutions, and adds that "this is
asserted by all-the old copies of the Consti-
tutions, and the old' English Masons firmly
believed it ." 	(Constitutions, 	1738, p . 57 .)
But the fact is that Anderson himself does not
mention the tradition in his first edition, pub-
lished in 1723, nor is any reference to Carau-
sius to be found in any of the old manuscripts
now extant . The legend is, it is true, inserted
in Krause's Manuscript ; but this document is
of very little authority, having been, most
probably, a production of the early part of the
eighteenth century, and of a contemporary of
Anderson, written perhaps between 1723 and
1738, which would account for the omission of
it in the first edition of the Book of Consti-
tutions, and its insertion in the second . The
reader may hence determine for himself what
authenticity is to be given to the Carausiun
legend .
Carbuncle. In Hebrew, I171~, baraketh,
the third stone in the first row of the high
priest's breastplate, according to the au-
thorized version, but the first stone in the
second row, according to the Septuagint .
Braun, a writer on the sacerdotal vestments
of the Hebrews (Amsterdam, 1680), sup-
poses that the baraketh was a smaragdus or
emerald, which view is sustained by Kalisch,
and is in accordance with the Septuagint
translation . The Talmudists derive bara-
keth from a word signifying " to shine with
the brightness of fire," which would seem to
indicate some stone of a coruscant color, and
would apply to the bright green of the emerald
as well as to the bright red of the carbuncle .
The stone, whatever it was, was referred to
the tribe of Judah . The carbuncle in Chris-
tian iconography signifies blood and suffering,
and is symbolical of the Lord's passion . Five
carbuncles placed on a cross symbolize the
five wounds of Christ .
Cardinal Points . 	The north, west, east,
and south are so called from the Latin cardo,
a hinge, because they are the principal points
of the compass on which all the others hinge
or hang . Each of them has a symbolic sig-
nification in Masonry, which will be found
under their respective heads . Dr . Brinton,
in an interesting Treatise on the Symbolism and
Mythology of the Red Race of 'America, has a
chapter on the sacred number four ; the only
one, he says, that has any prominence in the
religions of the red race, and which he traces
to the four cardinal points . The reason, he
declares, is to be "found in the adoration of

CARDINAL
the cardinal points " ; and he attributes to this
cause the prevalence of the cross as a symbol
among the aborigines of America, the exist-
ence of which so surprised the Catholic mis-
sionaries that they "were in doubt whether to
ascribe the fact to the pious labors of St .
Thomas or the sacrilegious subtlety of Satan ."
The arms of the cross referred to the cardinal
points, and represented the four winds, the
ringers of rain . The theory is an interesting
one, and the author supports it with many in-
genious illustrations . In the symbolism of
Freemasonry each of the cardinal points has a
mystical meaning . The East represents Wis-
dom ; the West, Strength ; the South, Beauty ;
and the North, Darkness .
Cardinal Virtues . 	The preeminent or
principal virtues on which all the others hinge
or depend . They are temperance, fortitude,
prudence, and justice . They are referred to in
the ritual of the First Degree, and will be found
in this work under their respective heads .
Oliver says (Revelations of a Square, ch . i .)
that in the eighteenth century the Masons
delineated the symbols of the four cardinal
virtues by an acute angle variously disposed .
Thus, suppose you face the east, 'the angle
symbolizing temperance will point to the
south, > . It was called a Guttural . Fortitude
was denoted by a saltire, or St . Andrew's
Cross, X . This was the Pectoral . The symbol
of prudence was an acute angle pointing
toward the southeast, >, and was denomi-
nated a Manual ; and justice had its angle to-
ward the north, <, and was called a Pedestal
or Pedal . The possession of cardinal virtues
is no special distinction of Freemasons, for
other societies have had them . They are
in evidence in the Christian church . The
fifteen cardinal virtues, in mosaic, in the
dome of Ascension of St . Mark's at Venice is
a famous example . 	[E . E . C .]
Carlile, Richard . A printer and book-
seller of London, who in 1819 was fined and
imprisoned for the publication of Paine's Age
of Reason, and Palmer's Light of Nature . He
also wrote and published several pretended
expositions of Masonry, which, after death,
were collected, in 1845, in one volume, under
the title of a Manual of Freemasonry, in three
parts . 	Carlile was a professed Atheist, and,
although a fanatical reformer of what he sup-
posed to be the errors of the age, was a man of
some ability . His Masonic works are inter-
spersed with considerable learning, and are
not as abusive of the Order as expositions gen-
erally are . He was born in 1790, and died in
1843, in London . For ten years before his
death his religious opinions had been greatly
modified .
Carmelites . Monks of an order estab-
lished on Mount Carmel, in Syria, during the
twelfth century . They wore a brown scapu-
lar passing over the shoulder and diagonally
across the back and body, thus crossing the
gown from right to left .
Carpenters, Order of . 	An organized
body in Holland and Belgium, with central
point of assembly at Antwerp . Their gath-
CASTING 	135
erings were at night in some neighboring for-
est .
Carpet . 	The chart or tracing board on
which the emblems of a degree are depicted
for the instruction of a candidate . "Carpets"
were originally drawn on the floor with chalk
or charcoal, and at the close of the Lodge ob-
literated . To avoid this trouble, they were
subsequently painted on cloth, which was laid
on the floor ; hence they were called carpets .
Carpets, or charts, as they are at the present
time commonly designated, are now generally
suspended from the wall, or from a framework
in the Lodge . (See Steps on Master's Carpet .)
Carthuslans . 	A religious order founded
by Bruno in 1080, and named from Char-
treux, in France, the place of their institution .
They were noted for their austerity .
Cartulary . 	An officer who has charge of
the register or other books of record .
Casmaran . The angel of air . Referred
to in the degree of Scottish Knight of St .
Andrew . The etymology is uncertain .
Cassia . 	A corruption of acacia, which
undoubtedly arose from the common habit,
among illiterate people, of sinking the sound
of the letter A m the pronunciation of any
word of which it constitutes the initial syllable,
as pothecary for apothecary, and prentice for
apprentice . The word prentice, by the way, is
almost altogether used in the old records of
Masonry, which were, for the most part, the
productions of uneducated men . Unfortu-
nately, however, the corruption of acacia into
cassia has not always been confined to the illit-
erate ; but the long employment of the cor-
rupted form has at length introduced it, in
some instances, among a few of our writers .
Even Dr . Oliver has sometimes used the
objectionable corruption, notwithstanding he
has written so much upon the symbolism of
the acacia .
There is a plant which was called by the
ancients cassia, but it is entirely different
from the acacia . The acacia was a sacred
plant ; the cassia an ignoble plant, having no
sacred character . The former is m Masonry
rofoundly symbolic ; the latter has no sym-
lism whatever . The cassia is only three
times mentioned in Scripture, but always as
an aromatic plant forming a portion of some
perfume . There is, indeed, strong reason for
believing that the cassia was only a coarse
kind of cinnamon, and that it did not grow in
Palestine, but was imported from the East .
Cassia, therefore, has no rightful place in
Masonic language, and its use should be
avoided as a vulgar corruption .
Castellan . In Germany, the Superin-
tendent or Steward of a Lodge building, in
which he resides . He is either a serving brother
or an actual member of the Lodge, and has
the care of the building and its contents .
Casting Voice or Vote . The twelfth of
the thirty-nine General Regulations prescribes
that "All matters are to be determined in the
Grand Lodge by a majority of votes each
member having one vote and the Grand Mas-
ter having two votes ." (Constitutions, 1723,

136 	CATACOMB
p . 61 .) From this law has arisen the universal
usage of giving to the Master of the Lodge a
casting vote in addition to his own when there
is a tie . The custom is so universal, and has
been so long practised, that, although I can
find no specific law on the subject, the right
may be considered as established by prescrip-
tion 	. 	It may be remarked that the Masonic
usage is probably derived from the custom of
the London Livery Companies or Guilds, where
the casting vote has always been given by the
presiding officers in all cases of equality, a rule
that has been recognized by Act of Parlia-
ment .
Catacomb . A grotto for burial ; a sepul-
chral vault . 	A subterranean place for the
burial of the dead, consisting of galleries or
passages with recesses excavated at their
sides for tombs . Later applied in the plural
to all the subterranean cemeteries lying
around Rome which, after having been long
covered up and forgotten, were fortuitously
discovered in 1578 . They are found elsewhere,
as, at Naples, at Syracuse, in Egypt, at Paris,
etc . 	(See Oxford Dictionary for full defini-
tions .)
The term is chiefly applied to those lying
about Rome, the principal ones lying along
the Appian Way . The following engraving
shows a small portion of the Northern section
of the Catacomb of St . Calixtus .
THE NORTHERN SECTION OF THE CATACOMB
OF CALIXTUS
There seems to have been no plan for these
excavations, for they shoot off in the most
unexpected directions,, forming such a laby-
rinth of connected passages that persons often
have been lost for several days at a time, giv-
ing the monk attendants much trouble . They
are several miles in extent . Those about Rome
are under the care of various monks of the
church, and are a source of considerable rev-
enue from tourists .
They are now entered by narrow passages
and some (St . Calixtus) descend to consider-
able depth . Along the passages are small
chambers at the sides for tombs, one above
another, each of which generally closed by a
slab of stone on which was placed the letters
D . M . (Deo Maximo) or X . P ., the Greek
letters for Christ . Tombs of saints bore in-
scriptions of identification .
The passages are generally three or four feet
wide and were at intervals along their course
enlarged into chambers, usually square or
rectangular, that were used for worship . One
CATECHISM
in St . Calixtus was an irregular semicircle and
about 32 feet in diameter . In these chambers
is usually found a stone bench or chair for the
bishop or teacher . They were ventilated and
partially lighted by shafts that extended to
the surface of the ground . Some frescoes were
found on the walls .
Many catacombs were destroyed and traces
of them lost when the Goths, Lombards, and
others besieged Rome at various times .
The foregoing would not justify a place in a
work of this character, were it not for the in-
fluence it sheds on the beginning of Christian
architecture, as for three centuries Pagan
Rome would not permit Christians to meet
above ground .
The Twenty-sixth Degree in the Ancient
and Accepted Rite refers to catacombs .
[E . E . C .]
Catafalque . 	A temporary structure of
wood, appropriately decorated with funereal
symbols and representing a tomb or cen-
otaph . 	It forms a part of the decorations of a
Sorrow Lodge, and is also used in the cere-
monies of the Third Degree in Lodges of the
French Rite .
Catch Questions . 	Questions not in-
cluded in the Catechism, but adopted from an
early period to try the pretensions of a stran-
ger, such as this used by American Masons :
"Where does the Master hang his hat? " and
by the French, "Comment etes vous entry
dans le Temple de Salomon? " Such as these
are of course unsanctioned by authority . But
Dr . Oliver, in an essay on this subject pre-
liminary to the fourth volume of his Golden
Remains, gives a long list of these "additional
tests," which had been reduced to a kind of
system, and were practised by the English
Masons of the eighteenth century . Among
them were such as these : "What is the punish-
ment of a rowan? " "What does this stone
smell of? " "If a brother were lost, where would
you look for him?" "How blows a Mason's
wind? " and many others of the same kind . Of
these tests or catch questions, Dr . Oliver says
"that they were something like the conun-
drums of the present day-difficult of compre-
hension ; admitting only of one answer, which
appeared to have no direct correspondence
with the question, and applicable only in con-
sonance with the mysterious terms and sym-
bols of the Institution ." Catch questions in
this country, at least, seem to be getting out
of use, and some of the most learned Masons
at the present day would find it difficult to
answer them .
Catechism . 	From the earliest times the
oral instructions of Masonry have been com-
municated in a catechetical form . Each de-
gree has its peculiar catechism, the knowledge
of which constitutes what is called a "bright
Mason ." The catechism, indeed, should be
known to every Mason, for every aspirant
should be thoroughly instructed in that of the
degree to which he has attained before he is
permitted to make further progress . The rule,
however, is not rigidly observed ; and many
Masons, unfortunately, are very ignorant of

CATECHUMEN
all but the rudimentary parts of their cate-
chism, which they derive only from hearing
portions of it communicated at the opening
and closing of the Lodge .
Catechumen . One who had attained the
Second Degree of the Essenian or early Chris-
tian Mysteries and assumed the name of
Constans . There were three degrees in the
ceremonies, which, to a limited extent, resem-
bled the Pagan services . Of the three classes,
the first were Auditors, the second Catechu-
mens, and the third the Faithful . The Au-
ditors were novices, prepared by ceremonies
and instruction to receive the dogmas of
Christianity . A portion of these dogmas was
made known to the Catechumens, who, after
particular purifications, received baptism, or
the initiation of the theogenesis (Divine regen-
eration) ; but in the grand mysteries of that
religion-the incarnation, nativity, passion,
and resurrection of Christ-none was initiated
but the Faithful . The Mysteries were divided
into two parts-the first, styled the Mass of
the Catechumens ; the second, the Mass of
the Faithful .
Many beautiful ceremonies and much in-
struction touching these matters will be found
in that most enticing degree called Prince of
Mercy, and known as the Twenty-sixth in the
Scottish Rite services .
Catenarian Arch . 	If a rope be suspended
loosely by its two ends, the curve into which it
falls is called a catenarian curve, and this
inverted forms the catenarian arch, which is
said to be the strongest of all arches . As the
form of a symbolic Lodge is an oblong square,
that of a Royal Arch Chapter, according to
the English ritual, is a catenarian arch .
Catharine 	II . 	Catharine 	the 	Great,
Empress of Russia, in 1762, prohibited by an
edict all Masonic meetings in her dominions .
But subsequently better sentiments prevailed,
and having learned the true character of the
Institution, she not only revoked her order of
prohibition, but invited the Masons to re-
establish their Lodges and to constitute new
ones, and went so far in 1763 as to proclaim
herself the Protectress of the Order and
"Tutrice " of the Lodge of Clio, at Moscow .
(Thory, ActaLatomorum, i ., 82 .) During the
remainder of her reign Freemasonry was in a
flourishing condition in Russia, and many of
the nobles organized Lodges in their palaces .
But in 1794 her feelings changed and she
became suspicious that the Lodges of Moscow
were intriguing against the Court and the
Ministers ; this idea, coupled with the horrors
of the French Revolution and other crimes
said to be due to secret societies, caused her
to cease to protect the Order, and without any
express prohibition emanatin from her, the
Lodges ceased to work . 	(I bid ., i ., 195 .)
She died November 6 1796, and in 1797 her
successor, Paul I ., forbade all secret societies
in Russia .
Caution . It was formerly the custom to
bestow upon an Entered Apprentice, on his
initiation, a new name, which was "caution ."
The custom is now very generally discontin-
CAVERN 	137
ued, although the principle which it incul-
cated should never be forgotten .
The Old Charges of 1723 impress upon a
Mason the necessity, when in the presence of
strangers not Masons, to be "cautious in your
words and carriage, that the most penetrating
stranger shall not be able to discover or find
out what is not proper to be intimated " ; as
these Charges were particularly directed to
Apprentices, who then constituted the great
body of the Fraternity, it is evident that the
" new name " gave rise to the Charge, or, more
likely, that the Charge gave rise to the " new
name ."
Cavern . 	In the Pagan mysteries of an-
tiquity the initiations were often performed
in caverns, of which a few, like the cave of
Elephants in India, still remain to indicate
by their form and extent the character of the
rites that were then performed . The cavern
of Elephanta, which was the most gorgeous
temple in the world, is one hundred and thirty
feet square, and eighteen feet high . It is sup-
ported by four massive pillars, and its walls
are covered with statues and carved symbolic
decorations . The sacellum, or sacred place,
which contained the phallic symbol, was in
the western extremity, and accessible only to
the initiated . The caverns of Salsette greatly
exceeded in magnitude that of Elephanta,
being three hundred in number, all adorned
with symbolic figures, among which the phal-
lic emblems were predominant, which were
placed in the most secret caverns, accessible
only by private entrances . In every cavern
was a basin to contain the consecrated water of
ablution, on the surface of which floated the
sacred lotus flower . All these caverns were
places of initiation into the Hindu mysteries,
and every arrangement was made for the per-
formance of the most impressive ceremonies .
Faber (Mys . Cab ., ii ., 257) says that "wher-
ever the Cabiric Mysteries were practised,
they were always in some manner or other
connected with caverns " ; and he mentions,
among other instances, the cave Zirinthus,
within whose dark recesses the most mysteri-
ous Rites of the Samothracian Cabiri were
performed .
Maurice (Ind. Ant ., iii ., 536) speaking of
the subterrranean passages of tine Temple of
Isis, in the island of Phile in the river Nile,
says "it was in these gloomy caverns that the
grand and mystic arcana of the goddess were
unfolded to the adoring aspirant, while the
solemn hymns of initiation resounded through
the long extent of these stony recesses ."
Many of the ancient oracles, as, for instance,
that of Trophonius in Bceotia, were delivered
in caves . Hence, the cave-subterranean,
dark, and silent-was mingled in the ancient
mind with the idea of mystery .
In the ceremonies of Masonry, we find the
cavern or vault in what is called the Cryptic
Masonry of the American Rite, and also in the
high degrees of the French and Scottish Rites,
in which it is a symbol of the darkness of i
norance and crime impenetrable to the 	' t
of truth .

138 	CEDARS
In reference to the practical purposes of the
cavern, as recorded in the legend of these
degrees, it may be mentioned that caverns,
which abounded in Palestine in consequence
of the geological structure of the country, are
spoken of by Josephus as places of refuge for
banditti ; and Mr . Phillott says, in Smith's
Dictionary, that it was the caves which lie
beneath and around so many of the Jewish
cities that formed the last hiding-places of the
Jewish leaders in the war with the Romans .
Cedars of Lebanon . 	In Scriptural sym-
bology, the cedar-tree, says Wemyss (Symb .
Lang . Scrip .), was the symbol of eternity,
because its substance never decays nor rots .
Hence, the Ark of the Covenant was made of
cedar ; and those are said to utter things
worthy of cedar who write that which no time
ought to obliterate .
The Cedars of Lebanon are frequently
referred to in the legends of Masonry, espe-
cially in the higher degrees ; not, however, on
account of any symbolical signification, but
rather because of the use made of them by
Solomon and Zerubbabel in the construction
of their respective Temples . 	Mr . Phillott
(Smith's Bible Diet .) thus describes the grove
so celebrated in Scriptural and Masonic his-
The grove of trees known as the Cedars
of Lebanon consists of about four hundred
trees, standing quite alone in a depression of
the mountain with no trees near, about six
thousand four hundred feet above the sea,
and three thousand below the summit . About
eleven or twelve are very large and old, twenty-
five large, fifty of middle size, and more than
three hundred younger and smaller ones .
The older trees have each several trunks and
spread themselves widely round, but most of
the others are of cone-like form, and do not
send out wide lateral branches . 	In 1550,
there were twenty-eight old trees, in 1739,
Pococke counted fifteen, but the number of
trunks makes the operation of counting un-
certain . They are regarded with much rever-
ence by the native inhabitants as living rec-
ords of Solomon's power, and the Maronite
patriarch was formerly accustomed to cele-
brate there the festival of the Transfiguration
at an altar of rough stones ."
Celebration . The Third Degree of Fess-
ler's Rite . 	(See Fessler, Rite of .)
Celestial Alphabet . 	See Alphabet, An-
gels' .
Celtic Mysteries . 	See Druidical Myster-
ies .
Celts . 	The early inhabitants of Italy,
Gaul, Spain, and Britain . 	They are sup-
posed to have left Asia during one of the
Aryan emigrations, and, having traveled in a
westerly direction, to have spread over these
countries of Europe . 	The Celtic Mysteries
or the Sacred Rites which they instituted are
known as Druidical Mysteries, which see .
Cement . 	The cement which in Operative
Masonry is used to unite the various parts of
a building into one strong and durable mass, is
borrowed by Speculative Masonry as a sym-
CENSOR
bol to denote that brotherly love which binds
the Masons of all countries in one common
brotherhood . 	As this brotherhood is recog-
nized as being perfected among Master
Masons only, the symbol is very appropri-
ately referred to the Third Degree .
Cemeteries, Masonic . 	The desire 	to
select some suitable spot wherein to deposit
the remains of our departed kindred and
friends seems almost innate in the human
breast . 	The stranger's field was bought with
the accursed bribe of betrayal and treason, and
there is an abhorrence to depositing our loved
ones in places whose archetype was so dese-
crated by its purchase-money . The church-
yard, to the man of sentiment, is as sacred as
the church itself . 	The cemetery bears a hal-
lowed character, and we adorn its graves with
vernal flowers or with evergreens, to show that
the dead, though away from our presence
visibly, still live and bloom in our memories .
The oldest of all the histories that time has
saved to us contains an affecting story of this
reverence of the living for the dead, when it
tells us how Abraham, when Sarah, his be-
loved wife, had died in a strange land, reluc-
tant to bury her among strangers, purchased
from the sons of Heth the cave of Machpelah
for a burial-place for his people .
It is not, then, surprising that Masons,
actuated by this spirit, should have been
desirous to consecrate certain spots as resting-
places for themselves and for the strange
Brethren who should die among them . 	A
writer in the London Freemason's Magazine
for 1858 complained that there was not in
England a Masonic cemetery, nor portion of
an established cemetery especially dedicated
to the interment of the Brethren of the Craft .
This neglect cannot be charged against the
Masons of America, for there is scarcely a
city or town of considerable size in which the
Masons have not purchased and appropriated
a suitable spot as a cemetery to be exclusively
devoted to the use of the Fraternity . 	These
cemeteries are often, and should always be,
dedicated with impressive ceremonies ; and it
is to be regretted that our rituals have provided
no sanctioned form of service for these occa-
sions .
Censer . 	A small vessel of metal fitted to
receive burning coals from the altar, and on
which the incense for burning was sprinkled
by the priest in the Temple . 	Among the fur-
niture of a Royal Arch Chapter is to be found
the censer, which is placed upon the altar of
incense within the sanctuary, as a symbol of
the pure thoughts and grateful feelings which,
in so holy a place, should be offered up as a
fitting sacrifice to the great I AM . In a similar
symbolic sense, the censer, under the name of
the "pot of incense," is found among the em-
blems of the Third Degree . 	(See Pot of In-
cense .) 	The censer also constitutes a part of
the Lodge furniture in many of the high de-
grees .
Censor . 	Gadicke says he is not an officer
but is now and then introduced into some of
the Lodges of Germany . He is commonly

CENSURE
found where the Lodge has its own private
house, in which, on certain days, mixed as-
semblies are held of Freemasons and their
families and friends . Of those assemblies the
Censor has the superintendence .
Censure . In Masonic law, the mildest
form of punishment that can be inflicted, and
may be defined to be a formal expression of
disapprobation, without other result than the
effect produced upon the feelings of him who
is censured . It is adopted by a resolution of
the Lodge on a motion made at a regular com-
munication ; it requires only a bare majority
of votes, for its passage does not affect the
Masonic standing of the person censured, and
may be revoked at any subsequent regular
communication .
Centaine, Order of . 	A mystical society
of the last century which admitted females .
It was organized at Bordeaux, in 1735 . (Thory,
Acta Latomorum, i ., 298 .)
Centennial . 	That which happens every
hundred years . 	Masonic bodies that have
lasted for that period very generally celebrate
the occasion by a commemorative festival .
On the 4th of November, 1852, almost all of
the Lodges of the United States celebrated the
centennial anniversary of the initiation of
George Washington as a Freemason .
Centralists . 	A society which existed in
Europe from 1770 to 1780 . It made use of
Masonic forms at its meetings simply to con-
ceal its secrets . Lenning calls it an alchemical
association, but says that it had religious and
political tendencies . Gadicke thinks that its
object was to propagate Jesuitism .
Central Point . 	See 	Point within a
Circle .
Center, Opening on the . 	In the English
ritual, a Master Mason's Lodge is said to be
opened on the center, because the Brethren
present, being all Master Masons, are equally
near and equally distant from that imaginary
central point which among Masons consti-
tutes perfection . Neither of the preliminary
degrees can assert the same conditions, be-
cause the Lodge of an Entered Apprentice
may contain all the three classes, and that of a
Fellow-Craft may include some Master Ma-
sons ; and therefore the doctrine of perfect
equality is not carried out in either . An at-
tempt was made, but without success, in the
Trestle Board, published under the sanction of
the Baltimore Masonic Convention, to in-
troduce the custom into the American Lodges .
Cephas . 	A word which in the Syriac sig-
nifies a rock or stone, and is the name which
was bestowed by Christ upon Simon, when
he said to him, "Thou art a rock," which the
Greeks rendered by n€-rpos, and the Latins
by Petrus, both words meaning "a rock." It
is used in the degree of Royal Master, and
there alludes to the Stone of Foundation, which
see .
Ceremonies . 	The outer garments which
cover and adorn Freemasonry as clothing does
the human body . Although ceremonies give
neither life nor truth to doctrines or principles,
yet they have an admirable influence, since by
CERTIFICATE 	139
their use certain things are made to acquire a
sacred character which they would not other-
wise have had ; and hence, Lord Coke has
most wisely said that "prudent antiquity
did, for more solemnity and better memory
and observation of that which is to be done,
express substances under ceremonies ."
Ceremonies, Master of . 	See Master of
Ceremonies .
Ceres . 	Among the Romans, the goddess
of agriculture ; but among the more poetic
Greeks she was worshiped under the name of
Demeter, as the symbol of the prolific earth .
To her is attributed the institution of the
Eleusinian Mysteries in Greece, the most pop-
ular of all the ancient initiations .
Ceridwen . 	The Isis of the Druids .
Cerneau, Joseph . 	A French jeweler,
born at Villeblerin, in 1763, who in the be in-
ning of the nineteenth century remove to
the City of New York, where in 1807 he es-
tablished a spurious body under the title of
"Sovereign Grand Consistory of the United
States of America, its Territories and De-
pendencies ." This Masonic charlatan, who
claimed the right to organize bodies of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, was
expelled and his pretensions denounced, in
1813, by the legal Supreme Council sitting at
Charleston, South Carolina . Cerneau and his
adherents gave much trouble in the Scottish
Rite for many years, and the bodies which he
had formed were not entirely dissolved until
long after the establishment of a legal Su-
preme Council for the Northern Jurisdiction .
Certificate . 	A diploma issued by a Grand
Lodge or by a subordinate Lodge under its
authority, testifying that the holder there-
of is a true and trusty Brother, and recom-
mending him to the hospitality of the Fra-
ternity abroad . The character of this instru-
ment has sometimes been much misunder-
stood . It is by no means intended to act
as a voucher for the bearer, nor can it be
allowed to supersede the necessity of a strict
examination . 	A stranger, however, having
been tried and proved by a more unerring
standard, his certificate then properly comes in
as an auxiliary testimonial, and will be per-
mitted to afford good evidence of his correct
standing in his Lodge at home ; for no body of
Masons, true to the principles of their Order,
would grant such an instrument to an un-
worthy Brother, or to one who, they feared,
might make an improper use of it . But though
the presence of a Grand Lodge certificate
be in general required as collateral evidence
of worthiness to visit, or receive aid, its ac-
cidental absence, which may arise in various
ways, as from fire, captivity, or shipwreck,
should not debar a strange Brother from the
rights guaranteed to him by our Institution,
provided he can offer other evidence of his
good character . The Grand Lodge of New
York has, upon this subject, taken the proper
stand in the following regulation : "That no
Mason be admitted to any subordinate Lodge
under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, or
receive the charities of any Lodge, unless he

140 	CHAILLOU
shall, on such application, exhibit a Grand
Lodge certificate, duly attested by the proper
authorities, except he is known to the Lodge to
be a worthy brother ."
The certificate system has been warml y dis-
cussed by the Grand Lodges of the United
States, and considerable opposition to it has
been made by some of them on the ground
that it is an innovation . If it is an innova-
tion, it certainly is not one of the present day,
as we may learn from the Regulations made in
General Assembly of the Masons of En g land,
on St . John the Evangelist's day, 1663, during
the Grand Mastership of the Earl of St .
Albans, one of which reads as follows :
"That no person hereafter who shall be
accepted a Freemason shall be admitted into
any Lodge or Assembly, until he has brought
a certificate of the time and place of his ac-
ceptation from the Lodge that accepted him,
unto the Master of that limit or division where
such Lodge is kept ." (Constitutions, 1738, p .
101 .)
ChaWou de Joinville . 	He played an
important part in the Freemasonry of France
about the middle of the last century, espe-
cially during the schisms which at that time
existed in the Grand Lodge . In 1761, he was
an active member of the Council of Em-
perors of the East and West, or Rite of Perfec-
tion, which had been established in 1758 .
Under the title of "Substitute General of the
Order, Ven . Master of the First Lodge in
France, called St . Anthony's, Chief of the
Eminent Degrees, Commander, and Sublime
Prince of the Royal Secret, etc ., etc ., etc .,"
he signed the Patent of Stephen Morin, au-
thorizing him to extend the Royal Order in
America, which was the first step that subse-
quently led to the establishment of the An-
cient and Accepted Rite in the United States .
In 1762, the Prince of Clermont, Grand Mas-
ter of the Grand Lodge of France, removed
the dancing-master Lacorne, whom he had
previously appointed his Substitute General,
and who had become distasteful to the re-
spectable members of the Grand Lodge, and
put Chaillou de Joinville in his place . This
action created a schism in the Grand Lodge,
during which De Joinville ap p ears to have
acted with considerable energy, but eventually
he became almost as notorious as his prede-
cessor, by issuing irregular charters and de p u-
tations . On the death of the Prince of Cler-
mont, in 1771, the Lacornists regained much of
their influence, and De Joinville appears
quietly to have passed away from the field of
French Masonry and Masonic intrigues .
Chain, Mystic . 	To form the mystic chain
is for the Brethren to make a circle, holding
each other by the hands, as in surrounding a
grave, etc . Each Brother crosses his arms in
front of his body, so as to give his right hand
to his left-hand neighbor, and his left hand to
his right-hand neighbor . The French call it
chaine d'union . It is a symbol of the close con-
nection of all Masons in one common brother-
hood .
Chain of Flowers . In French Masonry,
CHALDEAN
when a Lodge celebrates the day of its foun-
dation, or the semicentennial membership of
one of the Brethren, or at the initiation of a
louveteau (q . v .) the room is decorated with
wreaths of flowers called "chaine de fleurs ."
Chain of Union . 	See Chain, Mystic .
Chain, Triangular . 	One of the legends
of Freemasonry tells us that when the Jewish
Masons were carried as captives from Jeru-
salem to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar they
were bound by triangular chains, which was
intended as an additional insult, because to
them the triangle, or delta, was a symbol of
the Deity, to be used only on sacred occasions .
The legend is of course apocryphal, and is
worth nothing except as a legendary symbol .
Chair . 	A technical term signifying the
office of Master of a Lodge . Thus "he is eli-
gible to the chair " is equivalent to "he is eli-
gible to the office of Master ." The word is
ap lied in the same sense to the presiding
officer in other Masonic bodies .
Chairman . 	The presiding officer of a
meeting or committee . In all committees of a
Lodge, the Worshipful Master, if he chooses to
attend, is ex-officio chairman ; as is the Grand
Master of any meeting of the Craft when he is
present .
Chair, Master in the . 	The German
Masons call the Worshipful Master "der
Meister im Stuhl," or the Master in the
Chair .
Chair, Oriental . 	The seat or office of the
Master of a Lodge is thus called-sometimes,
more fully, the "Oriental Chair of King Sol-
omon ."
Chair, Passing the . 	The ceremony of
inducting the Master-elect of a Lodge into his
office is called "passing the chair ." He who
has once presided over a Lodge as its Master
is said to have "passed the chair," hence the
title "Past Master ."
Chaldea . 	A large tract of country, lying
in a nearly northwest and southeast direction
for a distance of four hundred miles along the
course of the rivers Euphrates and Tigris,
with an average width of one hundred miles .
The kingdom of Chaldea, of which Babylon
was the chief city, is celebrated in Masonic
history as the place where the Jewish captives
were conducted after the destruction of Jeru-
salem . At that time Nebuchadnezzar was the
king . His successors during the captivity,
were Evilmerodach, N'eriglissar, Labosordacus
and Belshazzar . In the seventeenth year ol
his reign, the city of Babylon was taken and
the Chaldean kin g dom subverted by Cyrus,
King of Persia, who terminated the captivity
of the Jews, and restored them to their native
countr y
Chaldean Cylinder . 	The cylinder so
recently discovered by Mr . Rassam in the
course of his excavations in Babylonia, which
has greatly attracted the attention of the Lon-
don Society of Biblical Archeology, is one of the
most remarkable yet made known, by reason
of the li g ht it throws upon the ancient chro-
nology of the Chaldean Empire . It dates from
the time of Nabonides, and records, among

CHALDEANS
various things, that this sovereign, digging
under the foundations of the Temple of the
Sun-god at Sippara, forty-five years after the
death of King Nebuchadnezzar, came upon a
cylinder of Naramsin, the son of Nargon,
which no one had seen for "3200 years ." This
gives as the date of the ancient sovereign
named 3750 B .c . This, and the fact pointed
out by Prof . Oppert, that there was in those
early days already "lively intercourse between
Chaldea and Egypt," will have to be taken
into account by future Bible critics . This
destroys the conception of Abraham, the
founder of the Jews, as a wanderer or nomad,
and establishes the existence of two highly
civilized, as well as cultured, empires in Eg y pt
and Chaldea more than 5,500 years ago ; that
the highroad between them lay direct through
Southern Palestine, and that Abraham was a
native of the one great empire and an honored
visitor in the other . Thus has been opened up
a new field for investigation in the matter of
Akkad and Akkadian civilization .
Chaldeans or Chaldees . 	The ancient-
Diodorus Siculus says the "most ancient "-
inhabitants of Babylonia . There was among
them, as among the Egyptians, a true priestly
caste, which was both exclusive and hereditary ;
for although not every Chaldean was a priest,
yet no man could be a priest among them un-
less he were a Chaldean . "At Babylon,"
says Dr . Smith (Anc . Hist . of the East, p .
398), "they were in all respects the ruling
order in the body politic, uniting in themselves
the characters of the English sacerdotal and
military classes . They filled all the highest
offices of state under the king, who himself
belonged to the order ." The Chaldean priests
were famous for their astronomical science, the
study of which was particularly favored by
the clear atmosphere and the cloudless skies
of their country, and to which they were prob-
ably urged by their national worship of the
sun and the heavenly hosts . Diodorus Siculus
says that they passed their whole lives in med-
itating questions of philosophy, and acquired
a great reputation for their astrology . They
were addicted especiall y to the art of divina-
tion, and framed predictions of the future .
They sought to avert evil and to insure good
by purifications, sacrifices, and enchantments .
They were versed in the arts of prophesying
and explaining dreams and prodigies . All this
learning among the Chaldeans was a family
tradition ; the son inheriting the profession
and the knowledge of the priesthood from his
father and transmitting it to his descendants .
The dhaldeans were settled throughout the
whole country, but there were some special
cities, such as Borsippa, Ur, Sippera, and
Babylon, where they had regular colleges .
The reputation of the Chaldeans for prophetic
and magical knowledge was so great, that
astrologers, and conjurers in general, were
styled Babylonians and Chaldeans, just as the
wandering fortune-tellers of modern times are
called Egyptians or gipsies, and Ars Chal-
d¢orum was the name given to all occult sci-
ences .
CHAPEAU 	141
Chalice . 	A cup used in religious rites . It
forms a p art of the furniture of a Commandery
of Knights Templar, and of some of the higher
degrees of the French and Scottish Rites . It
should be made either of silver or of gilt metal .
The stem of the chalice should be about four
inches high and the diameter from three to
six .
Chalk, Charcoal, and Clay . 	By these
three substances are beautifully symbolized
the three qualifications for the servitude of an
Entered A p prentice-freedom, fervency, and
zeal . Chalk is the freest of all substances, be-
cause the slightest touch leaves a trace behind .
Charcoal, the most fervent, because to it,
when ignited, the most obdurate metals yield ;
and clay, the most zealous, because it is con-
stantly employed in man's service, and is as
constantly reminding us that from it we all
came, and to it we must all return . In the
earlier lectures of the last century, the sym-
bols, with the same interpretation, were given
as "Chalk, Charcoal, and Earthen Pan ."
Chamber, Middle . See Middle Chamber .
Chamber of Reflection . 	In the French
and Scottish Rites, a small room adjoining the
Lodge, in which, preparatory to initiation the
candiate is enclosed for the purpose o? in-
dulging in those serious meditations which its
somber appearance and the gloomy emblems
with which it is furnished are calculated to
produce . It is also used in some of the high
degrees for a similar purpose . Its employment
is very a p propriate, for, as Gadicke well ob-
serves, "It is only in solitude that we can
deeply reflect upon our present or future
undertakings, and blackness darkness, or
solitariness, is ever a symbol of death . A
man who has undertaken a thing after mature
reflection seldom turns back ."
Chancellor . 	An officer in a Council of
Companions of the Red Cross, corresponding
in some respects to the Senior Warden of a
Symbolic Lodge .
Chancellor, Grand . 	An officer in the
Supreme Councils and Grand Consistories of
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite,
whose duties are somewhat similar to those
of a Corresponding Secretary .
Chaos . 	A confused and shapeless mass,
such as is supposed to have existed before God
reduced creation into order . It is a Masonic
symbol of the ignorance and intellectual
darkness from which man is rescued by the
light and truth of Masonry . Hence, ordo ab
chao, or, "order out of chaos," is one of the
mottoes of the Institution .
Chaos Disentangled . 	One of the names
formerly given to the Twenty-eighth Degree
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, or
Knight of the Sun . It is likewise found in the
collection of M . Pyron . Discreet and Wise
Chaos are the Forty-ninth and Fiftieth degrees
of the Rite of Mizraim .
Chapeau . 	The cocked hat worn in this
country by Knights Templar . The regulations
of the Grand Encampment of the United
States, in 1862, prescribe that it shall be "the
military chapeau, trimmed with black binding,

142 	CHAPEL
one white and two black plumes, and appro-
priate cross on the left side ."
Chapel . 	The closets and anterooms so
necessary and convenient to a Lodge for vari-
ous purposes are dignified by German Masons
with the title of "Capellen," or chapels .
Chapel, Mary's (or the Lodge of Edin-
burgh) . The oldest Lodge in Edinburgh,
Scotland, whose minutes extend as far back as
the year 1599 . This long stood as the oldest
minute, but in 1912 one was found of Aitchi-
son's-Haven Lodge dated 	1598 . 	(See Ait-
chison's-Haven .) They show that John Bos-
well, Esq ., of Auchinleck, was present in the
Lodge in the year 1600, and that the Hon .
Robert Moray, Quartermaster-General of the
Army of Scotland, was created a Master
Mason in 1641 at Newcastle by some mem-
bers of the Lodge of Edinburgh who were
present there with the Scotch Army . These
facts show that at that early period persons
who were not Operative Masons by profession
were admitted into the Order . The Lodge of
Edinburgh (Mary's Chapel) is No . 1 on the
roll of the Grand Lodge of Scotland ; the date
of its formation is unknown, and at one time it
stood first on the roll, but in 1807 the Mother
Kilwinning Lodge was placed before it as No .
0 . 	It met at one time in a chapel dedicated
to the Virgin Mary ; hence comes the second
part of its name . Its history was published in
1873 by D. M . Lyon . 	[E . L . H .]
Chapiter . 	The uppermost part of a col-
umn, pillar, or pilaster, serving as the head or
crowning, and placed immediately over the
shaft and under the entablature . The pillars
which stood in front of the porch of King
Solomon's Temple were adorned with chap-
iters of a peculiar construction, which are
largely referred to, and their symbolism ex-
p lained, in the Fellow-Craft's Degree . (See
Pillars of the Porch .)
Chaplain . 	The office of Chaplain of a
Lodge is one which is not recognized in the
ritual of the United States of America, al-
though often conferred by courtesy . The Mas-
ter of a Lodge in general performs the duties
of a Chaplain .
Chaplain, Grand . An office of very mod-
ern date in a Grand Lodge . 	It was first in-
stituted on the 1st of May, 1775, on the occa-
sion of the laying of the foundation of the
Freemasons' Hall in London . It is stated in
the English Constitutions of 1784 (p . 314)
that the office "which had been discontinued
for several years, was this day revived," but
there is no record of any appointment to it
before the date given . This office is now uni-
versally recognized by the Grand Lodges of
America . His duties are confined to offering
up rayer at the communications of the Grand
Loge, and conducting its devotional exer-
cises on public occasions .
Chapter . 	In early times the meetings of
Masons were called not only Lodges, but
Chapters and Congregations . Thus, the stat-
ute enacted in the third year of the rei gn of
Henry VI ., of England, A .D . 1425, declares
that "Masons shall not confederate in Chapi-
CHARACTERISTICS
ters and Congregations ." 	The word is now
exclusively appropriated to designate the
bodies in which degrees higher than the sym-
bolic are conferred . Thus there are Chapters
of Royal Arch Masons in the York and Amer-
ican Rites and Chapters of Rose Croix Masons
in the Ancient and Accepted .
Chapter, General Grand . 	See General
Grand Chapter .
Chapter, Grand . 	See Grand Chapter .
Chapter Mason . 	A colloquialism denot-
ing a Royal Arch Mason .
Chapter Masonry . 	A colloquialism in-
tended to denote the degrees conferred in a
Royal Arch Chapter .
Chapter of R . Arch Masons, An Old .
There is in Boston, Mass ., a Chapter of Royal
Arch Masons which was holden in St . An-
drew's Lodge and formed about the year
1769 . 	(See Royal Arch Masons, Massachu-
setts ; also, Pennsylvania .)
Chapter, Rose Croix . 	See Rose Croix,
Prince of .
Chapter, Royal Arch . 	A convocation
of Royal Arch Masons is called a Chapter .
In Great Britain, Royal Arch Masonr y is con-
nected with and p ractically under the same
government as the Grand Lodge ; but in
America the jurisdictions are separate . 	In
America a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons is
empowered to give the preparatory degrees of
Mark, Past, and Most Excellent Master ;
although, of course, the Chapter, when meet-
ing in either of these degrees, is called a Lodge .
In some Chapters the degrees of Royal and
Select Master are also given as preparatory
degrees ; but in most of the States, the control
of these is conferred upon separate bodies,
called "Councils of Royal and Select Masters ."
The presiding officers of a Chapter are the
High Priest, King, and Scribe, who are, re-
spectively, representatives of Joshua, Zerub-
babel, Haggai, and son of Josedech . 	In the
English Cha p ters, these officers are generally
styled either by the founders' names, as above,
or as First, Second, and Third Principals . In
the Chapters of Ireland the order of the officers
is King, High Priest, and Chief Scribe . Chap-
ters of Royal Arch Masons in America are
primaril y under the jurisdiction of State
Grand Chapters, as Lodges are under Grand
Lodges ; and secondly, under the General
Grand Chapter of the United States, whose
meetings are held triennially, and which ex-
ercises a general supervision over this branch
of the Order throughout the Union . 	(See
Royal Arch Degree .)
Chapters, Irish . 	See Irish Chapters .
Characteristic Name . 	See Order Name .
Characteristics . 	The prefix to signatures
of brethren of the A . A . Scottish Rite is as fol-
lows : To that of the Sovereign Grand Com-
mander, the triple cross crosslet, as in (1), in
red ink . 	To that of an Inspector-General
other than a Commander (2), in red ink . To
that of a Brother of the Royal Secret,
Thirty-second Degree (3), in red ink . 	In the
Northern Jurisdiction of the U . S ., a Rose
Croix Knight will suffix a triangle our-

CHARCOAL
mounted by a cross in red ink, as in (4) .
In all cases, it is usual to place the degree
rank in a triangle after the name .
1 	2 	3 	4
Charcoal . See Chalk, Charcoal, and Clay .
Charge . So called from the "Old Charges,"
because like them, it contains an epitome of
d uty . i t is the admonition which is given by
the presiding officer, at the close of the cere-
mon y of initiation, to the candidate, and
which the latter receives standing, as a token
of respect . There is a charge for each degree,
which is to be found in all the monitors and
manuals from Preston onward .
Charges, Old . 	The Masons' Constitu-
tions are old records, containing a history,
very often somewhat apocryphal, of the origin
and progress of Masonry, and re g ulations for
the government of the Craft . These regula-
tions are called Charges, and are generally
the same in substance, although they differ in
number, in the different documents . These
charges are divided into " Articles " and
"Points" ; although it would be difficult to
say in what the one section differs in character
from the other, as each details the rules which
should govern a Mason in his conduct to-
ward his "lord," or employer, and to his
brother workmen . The oldest of these charges
is to be found in the York Constitutions (if
they are authentic), and consists of Fifteen
Articles and Fifteen Points . It was required
b y the Constitutions of the time of Edward
III ., "that, for the future, at the making or
admission of a brother, the constitutions and
charges should be read ." This regulation is
still preserved in form, in modern Lodges, by
the reading of the charge by the Master to
a candidate at the close of the ceremony of his
reception into a degree . (For a list of the
Old Charges, see Manuscripts, Old .)
Charges of 1722 . 	The Fraternity had
long been in possession of many records, con-
taining the ancient regulations of the Order ;
when, in 1722, the Duke of Montague being
Grand Master of England, the Grand Lodge
finding fault with their antiquated arrange-
ment it was directed that they should be col-
lected' , and after being properly digested, be
annexed to the Book of Constitutions, then in
course of publication under the superintend-
ence of Dr . James Anderson . This was ac-
cordingly done, and the document now well
known under the title of The Old Charges of the
Free and Accepted Masons, constitutes, by uni-
versal consent a part of the fundamental law
of our Order . Yhe charges are divided into six
general heads of duty, as follows : 1 . Concern-
ing God and religion . 2 . Of the civil magis-
trate supreme and subordinate . 3 . Of Lodges .
Masters Wardens, Fellows, and Ap-
prentices . 5 . df the management of the Craft
in working . 6 . Of behavior under different
CHARITY 	143
circumstances and in various conditions .
These charges contain succinct directions for
the proper discharge of a Mason's duties, in
whatever position he may be placed, and are
as modern researches have shown, a collation
of the charges contained in the Old Records
and from them have been abridged, or by them
suggested, all those well-known directions
found in our monitors, which Masters are
accustomed to read to candidates on their
reception . (See Records, Old .)
Charity . 	"Though I speak with the
tongues of men and of angels, and have not
charity, I am become as soundin g brass, or a
tinkling cymbal . And though I have the gift
of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and
all knowledge ; and though I have all faith,
so that I could remove mountains, and have
not charity, I am nothing ." (1 Corinth . xiii .
1, 2 .) 'Such was the language of an eminent
apostle of the Christian church, and such is
the sentiment that constitutes the cementing
bond of Freemasonry . The apostle, in com-
paring it with faith and hope, calls it the
greatest of the three, and hence in Masonry it
is made the topmost round of its mystic ladder .
We must not fall into the too common error
that charity is only that sentiment of commis-
eration which leads us to assist the poor with
pecuniary donations . Its Masonic, as well as its
Christian application is more noble and more
extensive . The word used by the apostle is,
in the original, kyd r l, or love, a word denoting
that kindl y state of mind which renders a per-
son full of good-will and affectionate regard
toward others . John Wesley expressed his
regret that the Greek had not been correctly
translated as love instead of charity, so that the
apostolic triad of virtues would have been,
not "faith hope, and charity," but "faith,
hope and 'ove . 'Then would we have under-
stood the comparison made by St . Paul, when
he said, "Though I bestow all my goods to
feed the poor, and though I give my body to
be burned, and have not love, it profiteth me
nothing ." Guided by this sentiment, the true
Mason will "suffer long and be kind." He will
be slow to anger and easy to forgive . He will
stay his falling brother by gentle admonition,
and warn him with kindness of approaching
danger . He will not o p en his ear to his slan-
derers, and will close his lips against all re-
proach . His faults and his follies will be
locked in his breast, and the prayer for mercy
will ascend to Jehovah for his brother's sins .
Nor will these sentiments of benevolence be
confined to those who are bound to him by
ties of kindred or worldly friendship alone ;
but, extending them throughout the globe, he
will love and cherish all who sit beneath the
broad canopy of our universal Lodge . For it
is the boast of our Institution, that a Mason,
destitute and worthy, may find in every clime
a brother, and in every land a home .
Charity, Committee on . 	See Committee
of Charity .
Charity Fund . 	Many Lodges and Grand
Lodges have a fund es p ecially appropriated to
charitable purposes, which is not used for thg

144 	CHARLATAN
disbursement of the current expenses, but
which is appropriated to the relief of indigent
brethren, their widows, and orphans . The
charity fund of the Grand Lodge of Pennsyl-
vania, which was bequeathed to it by Stephen
Girard, and which is the largest in America,
considerably exceeds fifty thousand dollars .
Charlatan . 	A charlatan is a babbling
mountebank, who imposes on the populace
by large pretensions and high-sounding words .
A charlatan in Masonry is one who seeks by
a display of pompous ceremonial, and often
by claims to supernatural powers, to pervert
the Institution of Masonry to the acquisition
of gain, or the gratification of a paltry ambi-
tion . Every man, says a distinguished writer,
is a charlatan who extorts money by charging
for sixpenny trash the amount that should only
be paid for works of science, and that, too,
under the plea of conveying knowledge that
cannot otherwise be obtained . (Lond. Freem .
Mag ., 1844, p . 505 .) The eighteenth century
presented many examples of these Masonic
charlatans, of whom by far the greatest was
Cagliostro ; nor has the nineteenth century
been entirely without them .
Charlemagne . 	The great Charles, King
of France, who ascended the throne in the
year 768, is claimed by some Masonic writers
as a patron of Masonry . This is perhaps
because architecture flourished in France dur-
ing his reign, and because he encouraged the
arts by inviting the architects and traveling
Freemasons, who were
to
then principally con-
fined 	Italy, to visit France and engage
in the construction of important edifices .
The claim has been made that at his castle
at Aix-la-Chapelle he set apart a room or
rooms in which the seven liberal arts and sci-
ences were taught . This comprised a liberal
education for that period . 	[E . E. C .j
Charles Martel . 	He was the founder
of the Carlovingian dynasty, and governed
France with supreme power from 720 to 741,
under the title of Duke of the Franks, the
nominal kings being only his puppets . He
is claimed by the authors of the Old Records
as one of the patrons of Masonry . Thus, the
Lansdowne MS . says : "There was one of
the Royall Line of France called Charles
Marshall, and he was a man that loved well
the said Craft and took upon him the Rules
and Manners, and after that BY THE GRACE OF
GOD he was elect to be the King of France,
and when he was in his Estate he helped to
make those Masons that were now, and sett
them on Work and gave them Charges and
Manners and good pay as he had learned of
other Masons, and confirmed them a Charter
from yeare to yeare to hold their Assembly
when they would, and cherished them right
well, and thus came this Noble Craft into
France and England ."
Rebold (Hist . Gen .) has accepted this legend
as authentic, and says : "In 740, Charles
Martel, who reigned in France under the title
of Mayor of the Palace, at the request of the
Anglo-Saxon kings, sent many workmen and
Masters into England ."
CHARTERED
Charles I . and II . For their supposed
connection with the origin of Freemasonry,
see Stuart Masonry .
Charles XIII . The Duke of Siidermanland
was distinguished for his attachment to Ma-
sonry . In 1809 he ascended the throne of
Sweden under the title of Charles XIII . Hav-
ing established the Masonic Order of Knight-
hood of that name, he abdicated in favor of
Charles John Bernadotte, but always re-
mained an active and zealous member of the
Order . There is no king on record so distin-
guished for his attachment to Freemasonry as
Charles XIII ., of Sweden, and to him the
Swedish Masons are in a great measure in-
debted for the high position that the Order
has maintained during the present century in
that country .
Charles XIII ., Order of . 	An order of
knighthood instituted in 1811 by Charles
XIII ., King of Sweden, which was to be con-
ferred only on the principal dignitaries of the
Masonic Institution in his dominions . In the
manifesto establishing the Order, the king
says : "To give to this society (the' Masonic)
a proof of our gracious sentiments towards it,
we will and ordain that its first dignitaries to
the number which we may determine, shall in
future be decorated with the most intimate
proof of our confidence, and which shall be
for them a distinctive mark of the highest dig-
nity ." The number of Knights are twenty-
seven, all Masons, and the King of Sweden is
the perpetual Grand Master . The color of the
ribbon is red, and the jewel a maltese cross
pendant from an imperial crown .
Charleston . A city in the United States
of America, and the metropolis of the State of
South Carolina . It was there that the first
Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite was established in 1801, whence
all other Supreme Councils have emanated
directly or indirectly . Hence, it has assume
the title of "Mother Council of the world ."
Its seat was removed in 1870 to the city of
Washington . (See Scottish Rite .)
Charms, Magical . 	See Talisman .
Chart . 	1 . A map on which is delineated
the emblems of a degree, to be used for the
instruction of candidates, formerly called a
carpet, which see . 2 . The title given by
Jeremy L . Cross to his Hieroglyphic Monitor,
which acquired on its first appearance in the
Lodges of America a popularity that it has not
yet entirely lost . 	ence the word chart is
still sometimes used colloquially and improp-
erly to designate any other Masonic manual
of monitorial instruction .
Charter . 	Often used for Warrant of Con-
stitution, which see .
Chartered Lodge . A Lodge working under
the authority of a Charter or Warrant of
Constitution issued by a Grand Lodge as dis-
tinguished from a Lodge working under a
dispensation issued by a Grand Master . Char-
tered Lodges only are entitled to representa-
tion in the Grand Lodge . They alone can
make by-laws, elect members, or have their
officers installed . They are the constituent

CHARTER
bodies of a jurisdiction, and by their repre-
sentatives compose the Grand Lodge .
Charter Member . 	A Mason whose name
is attached to the petitiou upon which a Char-
ter or Warrant of Constitution has been
granted to a Lodge, Chapter, or other subor-
dinate body .
Charter of CologMe . 	See Cologne, Char-
ter Of .
Charter of WTansmission . 	See Trans-
mission, Charter of .
gr
Chasidim . 	In Hebrew, C I- 1`bM, meaning
saints . T> ;le name of a sect which existed in
the time of the Maccabees, and which was
organized for the purpose of opposing innova-
tioris upon the Jewish faith . Their, essential
principles were to observe all the ritual laws
of purification, to meet frequently for devo-
tion, to submit to acts of self-denial and mor-
tification, to have all things in common, and
sometimes to withdraw from society and to
devote themselves to contemplation . Lawrie,
who seeks to connect them with the Masonic
Institution as a continuation of the Masons of
the Solomonic era, describes them under the
name of "Kasideans" as "a religious Fra-
ternity, or an order of the KNIGHTS OF THE
TEMPLE OF JERUSALEM, who bound them-
selves to adorn the porches of that magnificent
structure, and to preserve it from injury and
decay . This association was composed of the
eatest men of Israel, who were distinguished
Poor their charitable and peaceful dispositions,
and always signalized themselves by their
ardent zeal for the purity and preservation of
the Temple ." 	(History of Freemasonry, p .
38 .)
Chastanler, Benedict . 	A French sur-
geon, who in the year 1767 introduced into
England a modification of the Rite of Per-
netty, in nine degrees, and established a
Lodge in London under the name of the "Il-
luminated Theosophists" ; which, however,
according to Lenning, soon abandoned the
Masonic forms, and was converted into a mere
theosophic sect, intended to propagate the
religious system of Swedenborg . Mr . White,
in his Life of Emanuel Swedenborg (Lend .,
1868, p . 683), gives an account of "The The-
osophical Society, instituted for the purpose
of promoting the Heavenly Doctrines of the
New Jerusalem by translating., printing, and
publishing the theological writings of Eman-
uel Swedenborg ." This society was formed in
1784, and met on Sundays and Thursdays at
chambers in New Court, Middle Temple, for
the discussion of Swedenborg's writings .
Among the twenty-five persons mentioned by
White as having either joined the society or
sympathized with its object, we find the name
of "Benedict Chastanier, French Surgeon, 62
Tottenham Court ." The nine degrees of Chas-
tanier's Rite of Illuminated Theosophists are
as follows : 1, 2, and 3, Symbolic degrees ; 4,
5, 6, Theosophic Apprentice, Fellow-Craft,
and Master ; 7, Sublime Scottish Mason, or
Celestial Jerusalem ; 8, Blue Brother ; and 9,
Red Brother .
Chastity . 	In the Regius or Halliwell MS .
CHERUBIM 	145
of the Constitutions of Masonry, wfltten not
later than the latter part of the fourteenth
century, the seventh point is in these words :
"Thou schal not by thy maystres wyf ly .
NY by thy felows yn no manner wyse,
Lest the Craft wolde the despyse ;
Ny by thy felows concubyne,
No more thou woldest he dede by tbyne .'.'
Again, in the Constitutions known as the
Matthew Cooke MS ., the date of which is
about the latter part of the fifteenth century,
the same regulation is enforced in these words :
"The 7th Point . That he covet not the
ne the daughter of his masters, nother of
fellows but if [unless] hit be in maryage ."
So all through the Old Constitutions and
Charges, we find this admonition to respect
the chastity of our brethren's wives and daugh-
ters ; an admonition which, it is scarcely nec-
essary to say, is continued to this day .
Chasuble . 	The outer dress which is worn
by the priest at the altar service, and is an
imitation of the old Roman toga . It is a cir-
cular cloth, which falls down over the body so
as completely to cover it, with an aperture in
the center for the head to pass through . It is
used in the ceremonies of the Rose Croix De-
gree .
Checkered Floor . 	See 	Mosaic 	Pave-
ment .
Chef-d'oeuvre . 	It was a custom among
many of the guilds, and especially among the
Compagnons du Devoir, who sprang up in the
sixteenth century in France, on the decay of
Freemasonry in that kingdom, and as one of
its results, to require every Apprentice, be-
fore be could be admitted to the freedom of
the guild, to present a piece of finished work as
a proof of his skill in the art in which he had
been instructed . The piece of work was called
his chef-d'oeuvre, or masterpiece .
Chereau, Antoine Gui liaume . A painter
in Paris, who published, in 1806, two her-
metico-philosophical brochures entitled Ex-
plication de la Pierre Cubique, and Explication
de la Croix Philosophique ; or Explanations of
the Cubical Stone and of the Philosophical
Cross . These works are brief, but give much
interesting information on the ritualism and
symbolism of the high degrees . They- have
been republished by Tessier in his 	anuel
General, without, however, any acknowledg-
ment to the original author .
Cherubim . 	The second order of the an-
gelic hierarchy, the first being the seraphim .
The two cherubim that overtopped the mercy-
seat or covering of the ark, in the holy of hol-
ies, were placed there by Moses, in obedience
to the orders of God : "And thou shalt make
two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt
thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy-
seat . And the cherubims, shall stretch forth
their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat
with their wings, and their faces shall look one
to another ; towards the mercy-seat shall the
faces of the cherubims be ." (Exod . xxv . 18,
20 .) It was between these cherubim that the
Shekinah or Divine presence rested, and from

146 	CHERUBIM
which issued the Bathkol or voice of God . Of
the form of these cherubim, we are ignorant .
Josephus says, that they resembled no known
creature, but that Moses made them in the
form in which he saw them about the throne
of God ; others, deriving their ideas from what
is said of them by Ezekiel, Isaiah, and St .
John, describe them as having the face and
breast of a man, the wings of an eagle, the
belly of a lion, and the legs and feet of an ox,
which three animals, with man, are the sym-
bols of strength and wisdom . But all agree in
this, that they had wings, and that these
wings were extended . The cherubim were
purely symbolic . But although there is great
diversity of opinion as to their exact signifi-
cation, yet there is a very general agreement
that they allude to and symbolize the pro-
tecting and overshadowing power of the Deity .
Reference is made to the extended wings of the
cherubim in the degree of Royal Master .
* Much light has been thrown upon the
plastic form of these symbols during the past
few years, not only as to the Cherubim of the
Ark of the Covenant spoken of in Exodus,
Samuel, Kings, and Chronicles, but those of
Chaldeo-Assyrian art which beautified the
gates of the palace of Sennacherib at Nine-
veh, and other structures .
The Kirubi of the Assyrian type, in the
shape of bulls with extended wings, in nowise
meet the description given above . The figures
which can be found in various places upon
Egyptian monuments, placed face to face on
either side of the Naos of the gods, and stretch-
ing out their arms, furnished with great wings,
as though to envelop them (Wilkinson, Man-
ners and Customs of Ancient Egyptians, 1878,
vol . iii .), more fully meet the idea-in fact, it is
convincing, when we remember the period,
and note that all else about the sacred furnish-
ings of the Tabernacle, or Ohel-mo'ed, are
exclusively Egyptian in form, as well as the
sacerdotal costumes . (See L'Egypte et Moise,
by Abbe Ancessi, Paris, 1875 .) Furthermore,
this was most natural, since the period was
immediately after the exodus . The Kerubim
of the Ark were remodeled by Solomon after
designs furnished by his father, David . (1
Chron . xxviii . 18 .)
THE ISMIAN CAR .
At this epoch, says Fran ois Lenormant,
Professor of Archeology at the National Li-
brary of France, in his Beginnings of History,
1882, the Egyptian influence was no longer
supreme in its sway over the Hebrews ; that
the Assyro-Babylonian influence balanced it ;
that the new Kerubim, then executed, may
(* From this point the article is from the pen of
C . T . McClenachan .)
CHERUBIM
have been different from the ancient ones as
described in Exodus ; in fact, Kirubi after the
Assyrian type, which formed a Merhbbh (a
chariot, 1 Chron . xxviii . 18), upon which Yah-
veh was seated . In the Egyptian monuments
the gods are often represented between the
forward-stretching wings of sparrow-hawks or
THE ARK OF PHILE .
vultures, placed face to face, and birds of this
kind often enfold with their wings the divine
Naos .
The adornment of the Tabernacle, as men-
tioned in Exodus, excluded every figure sus-
ceptible of an idolatrous character, which is
far from being the case in what we know of the
Temple of Solomon . In the matter of plastic
images, none was admitted save only the Ker-
ubim which were not only placed upon the
Ark, but whose representations are woven into
the hangings of the Mishk&n and the veil
which separates the Holy Place from the Holy
of Holies . It is therefore most probable that
the Kerubim of Exodus were great eagles or
birds-Kurubi-while under the remodeling
by Solomon these were changed to Kirubi
with human faces .
The prophet Ezekiel describes four haq-
y8th or Kerubim, two and two, back to back,
and going "each one straight forward " to-
ward the four quarters . The Kerubim of the
Merkhbgh of Ezekiel have four wings-two
lifted up and two covering their back-and
four human faces set in pairs, to the right and
to the left, one of a man, one of a bull, one of a
lion, and one of an eagle-the faces of crea-
tures which combine all the emblems of
strength depicted by the Chaldeo-Assyrian
bull . Ezekiel (Yehezqel) thus describes the
Kerubim with several faces which, alternately
with the palm-trees, decorated the frieze
around the interior of the temple at Jeru-
salem : "Each Kerub had two faces, a man's
face turned one way toward the palm-tree,
and a lion's face turned the other way to-
ward the other palm-tree ; and it was in this
wise all around the house ."
The following information, furnished by
Prof . Lenormant, on the subject of Cherubim,
is important : "Deductions were formerly
made from the Aryan theory to sup port prim-
itive tradition as to origin and form, but
these have been overthrown, and the Semitic
interpretation made manifest through finding
the name of the Kerubim in the cuneiform
inscriptions ; that in place of referring the
Hebrew word kerub to the Aryan root grabh,

CHESED
'to seize,' the word is more properly of Semitic
origin, from the root kdrab, signifying `bull,'
or a creature strong and powerful
Referring to the prophet Ezekiel i . 10 and x .
14, the two parallel passages use the word
kerzlb interchangeably with shor, 'bull,' the
'face of a bull' and 'face of a cherub,' which
are synonymous expressions . Since we have
come to know those colossal images of winged
bulls with human faces, crowned with the
lofty cidaris, decorated with several pairs of
horns, which flanked the gateways of the As-
syrian palaces, a number of scholars, inti-
mately acquainted with antique sculpture,
have been zealous in associating them with the
Kerubim of the Bible . . . . The winged bull
with a human head figures in a bas-relief in the
palace of Khorsabad as a favoring and pro-
tecting genius, which watches over the safe
navigation of the transports that carry the
wood of Lebanon by sea . The bulls whose
images are placed at the gateways of the pal-
aces and temples, as described in the above
ideographic group, are the guardian genii, who
are looked upon as living beings . As the result
of a veritable magical operation, the super-
natural creature is supposed to reside within
these bodies of stone .'
In a bilingual document, Akkadian with an
Assyrian version, we read invocations to the
two bulls who flanked the gate of the infernal
abode, which were no longer simulacra of
stone, but living beings, like the bulls at the
gates of the celestial palaces of the gods . The
following is one of the unique expressions
made in the ears of the bull which stands to
the right of the bronze enclosure :
"Great Bull, most great Bull, stamping be-
fore the holy gates, he opens the interior ; di-
rector of Abundance, who supports the god
Nirba, he who gives their glory to the culti-
vated fields, my pure hands sacrifice toward
thee ."
Similar expressions were then made in the
bull's left ear .
These genii, in the form of winged bulls
with human countenances, were stationed as
guardians at the portals of the edifices of
Babylonia and Assyria, and were given the
name of Kirubi ; thus, Kirubu damqu lippa-
qid, "May the propitious Kirub guard ." Nu-
merous authorities may be given to show that
the Chaldeo-Assyrians' Kirub, from the tenth
to the fifth century before our era, whose
name is identical with the Hebrew Kerub,
was the winged bull with a human head . The
Israelites, during the times of the Kings and
the Prophets, pictured to themselves the Ker-
ubim under this form .*
Chesed . 	A word which is most generally
corrupted into Hesed . It is the Hebrew `IDi1,
and signifies mercy . 	Hence, it very appropri-
ately refers to that act of kindness and com-
passion which is commemorated in the degree
of Select Master of the American system . It
* "The figures of the Cherubim are said to
have defeated Dante's power of constructive
imagination ."
CHINA 	147
is the fourth of the Kabbalistic Sephiroth, and
is combined in a triad with Beauty and Jus-
tice .
Chevalier . 	Employed by the French
Masons as the equivalent of Knight in the
name of any degree in which the latter word is
used by English Masons, as Chevalier du Soleil
for 'Knight of the Sun, or Chevalier de l'Orient
for Knight of the East . The German word is
Ritter .
Chlbbelum . 	A significant word used in
the rituals of the last century, which define
it to mean "a worthy Mason .' It is a corrup-
tion of Giblim .
Chicago, Congress of . A convention of
distinguished Masons of the United States,
held at the city of Chicago in September,
1859, during the session of the Grand Encamp-
ment and General Grand Chapter, for the pur-
pose of establishing a General Grand Lodge,
or a Permanent Masonic Congress . Its re-
sults were not of a successful character ; and
the death of its moving spirit, Cyril Pearl,
which occurred soon after, put an end to all
future attempts to carry into effect any of its
preliminary proceedings .
Chief of the Tabernacle . The Twenty-
third Degree in the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite . It commemorates the institu-
tion of the order of the priesthood in Aaron
and his sons Eleazar and Ithamar . Its prin-
cipal officers are three, a Sovereign Sacrificer
and two High Priests, now called by the Su-
preme Councils of America the Most Excellent
High Priest and Excellent Priests and the
members of the "Hierarchy " or "court," as
the Lodge is now styled, are called Mites .
The apron is white, lined with deep scarlet and
bordered with red, blue, and purple ribbon . A
golden chandelier of seven branches is painted
or embroidered on the center of the apron .
The jewel, which is a thurible, is worn from a
broad yellow, purple, blue, and scarlet sash
from the left shoulder to the right hip .
Chief of the Twelve Tribes . 	(Chef des
douze Tribes .) 	The Eleventh Degree of the
Chapter of Emperors of the East and West .
It is also called Illustrious Elect .
Chiefs of Masonry . 	A title formerly
given in the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite to Princes of Jerusalem . It seems now
to be more appropriate to Inspectors-General
of the Thirty-third Degree .
Chill . Freemasonry was introduced into
Chili, in 1841, by the Grand Orient of France .
Lodges were subsequently organized in 1850
and 1851 by the Grand Lodges of Massachu-
setts and California . On the 24th of May,
1862, a Grand Lodge was formed .
China . Masonry was introduced into China
by the Grand Lodge of England in the Eigh-
teenth century . There are two District Grand
Lodges under the Grand Lodge of England :
1 . That of Hong Kong and South China with
7 Lodges . 2 . That of Northern China with
11 Lodges. There are also Chapters and an
Encampment of Knights Templars, under the
English authority .
A secret society, akin to Masonry and in-

148 	CHINESE
digenous to China, is the "Most Ancient
Order of Suastica," or the Brotherhood of the
Mystic Cross, said to have been founded 1027
B .c . by Fohi, and introduced into China 975
B .c . 	It contains three degrees : Apprentice
Brothers, Tao Sze (or Doctors of Reason), and
Grand Master . The Apprentice wears the
Jaina Cross, worked on a blue silk ribbon ; the
Tao Sze wears a cross of silver ; and the Grand
Master one in gold . 	The meetings are called
"Tents ."
Chinese Classics and Symbolism . 	Mr .
Giles, well versed in matters pertaining to
Chinese literature, customs, and archeology,
is the authority for stating that in the written
language of the Chinese many curious expres-
sions were in use seven hundred years before
the Christian era, or only about two hundred
years after the death of King Solomon, bearing
close proximity to those used prominently in
Masonry . The following quotation from the
works of Mencius, the great disciple of Con-
fucius, is given in illustration : "A Master
Mason, in teaching his apprentices, makes
use of the compasses and the square . Ye who
are engaged in the pursuit of wisdom must
also make use of the compasses and the
square ." These two words, "compasses" and
"square," in the Chinese language represent
"order, regularity, and propriety ." Mr . Giles
points out that in the oldest of the Chinese
classics, "which embraces a period from the
twenty-fourth to the seventh century before
Christ, there are distinct allusions to this
particular symbolism ."
Chinese Secret Societies . In China, as
in all other countries, secret societies have ex-
isted, such as the Tien-tee-whee, or Associa-
tion of Heaven and Earth, and the Tien-lee,
or Society of Celestial Reason . But the at-
tempt to trace any analogy between them and
Freemasonry is a mistaken one . These soci-
eties have in general been of a political char-
acter, with revolutionary tendencies, and as
such, have been prohibited by the government,
sometimes under the penalty of the death or
banishment of their members . Their similar-
ity to Masonry consists only in these points :
that they have forms of initiation, an esoteric
instruction, and secret modes of recognition .
Beyond these all further resemblance fails .
Chisel . 	In the American Rite the chisel is
one of the working tools of a Mark Master,
and symbolizes the effects of education on the
human mind . For as the artist, by the aid of
this instrument, gives form and regularity to
the shapeless mass of stone, so education, by
cultivating the ideas and by polishing the rude
thoughts, transforms the ignorant savage into
the civilized being .
In the English ritual, the chisel is one of the
working tools of the Entered Apprentice .
With the same reference to the advantages of
education . Preston (B . II ., Sect . vi .) thus elab-
orates its symbolism as one of the implements
of Masonry : "The chisel demonstrates the
advantages bf discipline and education . The
mind, like the diamond in its original state, is
unpolished ; but as the effects of the chisel on
CHRISTIANIZATION
the external coat soon present to view the
latent beauties of the diamond, so education
discovers the latent virtues of the mind and
draws them forth to range the large field of
matter and space, in order to display the sum-
mit of human knowledge, our duty to God and
to man ." (Illustrations, ed . 1812, p . 86, foot-
note .) But the idea is not original with Pres-
ton . 	It is found in Hutchinson, who, how-
ever, does not claim it as his own . It formed,
most ~robably, a portion of the lectures of the
period . In the French system, the chisel is
placed on the tracing board of the Fellow-
Craft as an implement with which to work
upon and polish the Rough Ashlar . It has,
therefore, there the same symbolic significa-
tion .
Chivalry . The origin of chivalry is in-
volved in very great obscurity . Almost every
author who has written on this subject has
adopted an hypothesis of his own . Some de-
rive the institution from the equestrian order
of ancient Rome, while others trace it to the
tribes who, under the name of Northmen,
about the ninth century, invaded the southern
parts of Europe . 	Warburton ascribes the
origin of chivalry to the Arabians ; Pinkerton,
Mallet, and Percy, to the Scandinavians .
Clavel derives it from the secret societies of
the Persians, which were the remains of the
mysteries of Mithras . 	In Christendom, it
gave rise to the orders of knighthood, some of
which have been incorporated into the Ma-
sonic system . 	(See Knighthood .)
Christ, Order of . After the overthrow
of the Order of Knights Templars throughout
Europe, Dennis I ., King of Portugal, in 1317
solicited of Pope John XXII . permission to
reestablish the Order of the Temple in his
dominions under the name of the Order of
Christ, and to restore to it the possessions
which had been wrested from the Templars .
The Pope consented, approved the statutes
which had been submitted to him, and, in
1319, confirmed the institution, reserving to
himself and to his successors the right of cre-
ating knights, which has given rise to the pon-
tifical branch of the Order which exists at
Rome . The knights follow the rule of St . Ben-
edict, and conform in all points to the statutes
of the Order of the Temple . The Grand Mas-
tership is vested in the King of Portugal, and
the Order having been secularized in 1789, the
members were divided into the three classes of
six Grand Crosses, four hundred and fifty
Commanders, and an unlimited number of
knights . It was designated the Most Noble
Order, and none but those nobly descended, of
unsullied character, could be admitted . That
the grandfather had been a mechanic was an
impediment to the exaltation even of knights
of the third class . The Grand Crosses and
Commanders had generally valuable grants
and great privileges ; the latter were also en-
joyed by the knights, with pensions with re-
version to their wives .
Christianization of Freemasonry . The
interpretation of the symbols of Freemasonry
from a Christian point of view is a theory

CHRISTIANIZATION
adopted by some of the most distinguished
Masonic writers of England and this country,
but one which I think does not belong to the
ancient system . Hutchinson, and after him
Oliver-profoundly philosophical as are the
Masonic speculations of both-have, I am
constrained to believe, fallen into a great
error in calling the Master Mason's Degree a
Christian institution . 	It is true that it em-
braces within its scheme the great truths of
Christianity upon the subject of the immor-
tality of the soul and the resurrection of the
body ; but this was to be presumed, because
Freemasonry is truth s and all truth must be
identical . But the origin of each is different ;
their histories are dissimilar . The principles
of Freemasonry preceded the advent of Chris-
tianity . Its symbols and its legends are de-
rived from the Solomonic Temple and from
the people even anterior to that . Its religion
comes from the ancient priesthood ; its faith
was that primitive one of Noah and his imme-
diate descendants . If Masonry were simply a
Christian institution, the Jew and the Mos-
lem, the Brahman and the Buddhist, could
not conscientiously partake of its illumination .
But its universality is its boast . In its lan-
guage citizens of every nation may converse ;
at its altar men of all religions may kneel ; to
its creed disciples of every faith may sub-
scribe .
Yet it cannot be denied that since the ad-
vent of Christianity a Christian element has
been almost imperceptibly infused into the
Masonic system, at least among Christian
Masons . This has been a necessity ; for it is
the tendency of every predominant religion to
pervade with its influence all that surrounds
it or is about it, whether religious, political, or
social . This arises from a need of the human
heart . To the man deeply imbued with the
spirit of his religion, there is an almost uncon-
scious desire to accommodate and adapt all
the business and the amusements of life-
the labors and the employments of his every-
day existence-to the indwelling faith of his
soul .
The Christian Mason, therefore, while ac-
knowledging and appreciating the great doc-
trines taught in Masonry, and also while
grateful that these doctrines were preserved
in the bosom of his ancient Order at a time
when they were unknown to the multitudes
of the surrounding nations, is still anxious to
give to them a Christian character ; to invest
them, in some measure, with the peculiarities
of his own creed, and to bring the interpreta-
tion of their symbolism more nearly home to
his own religious sentiments .
The feeling is an instinctive one belonging
to the noblest aspirations of our human na-
ture ; and hence we find Christian Masonic
writers indulging in it to an almost unwar-
rantable excess, and, by the extent of their
sectarian interpretations, materially affecting
the cosmopolitan character of the Institution .
This tendency to Christianization has, in
some instances, been so universal, and has pre-
vailed for so long a period, that certain sym-
CHROMATIC 	149
bola and myths have been, in this way, so
deeply and thoroughly imbued with the Chris-
tian element as to leave those who have not
penetrated into the cause of this peculiarity,
m doubt whether they should attribute to the
symbol an ancient or a modern and Christian
origin
Chromatic 	Calendar . 	"The 	Five
Points ." 	In the great Temple, usually
known as the Ocean Banner Monastery, at
Honam, a suburb of Canton, China, we find
four colossal idols occupying a large porch,
each image being painted a different color .
Ch'i-kwoh, who rules the north and grants
pro itious winds, is dark ; Kwang-muh is red,
and to him it is given to rule the south and
control the fire, air, and water ; To-man'
rules the west, and grants or withholds rain,
his color being white ; while Chang-tsang,
whose color is green, rules the winds and keeps
them within their proper bounds, his supreme
control being exercised over the east . The old
custom of associating colors with the four
quarters of the globe has probably led to the
habit of describing the winds from these re-
spective points as possessed of the same colors .
The fifth, the earth, the central remaining
point, still is conjectural . Thus, we also find
m China a set of deities known as the five
rulers ; their colors, elements, and points may
be thus represented :
These again are in turn associated with the
planets, and the study of Chinese and Baby-
lonian planet-colors is full of curious points of
similarity .
BLACK, typifying the north, has two direct
opponents m symbolic colors, and these are
red and white . The first as implying ignorance
arising from evil passions, the second indicat-
ing ignorance of mind . Red-black is called in
Hebrew G11, Heum, from which comes Heume,
an enclosing wall . 	Black from white, in He-
brew, is 1710, sehher, signifying the dawn of
light to the mid of the Masonic profane . The
hand to back, as the words of wisdom are about
to be spoken .
In the Egyptian, the black Osiris appears
at the commencement of the Funereal Ritual,
representing the state of the soul which passes
into the world of light . Anubis, one of the sons
of Osiris, who weighs the soul in the scales of
Amenti, and is the god of the dead, is black .
The Conductor, or Master of Ceremonies,
Thoth Psychopompe, has the head of the
black Ibis . 	(See Truth .)
RED . 	In Hebrew, the fire of love, which
burns in the south, is 1 , are, to burn . On
Egyptian monuments, and in their temples,
the flesh of men is painted red, and that of
women, yellow . 	The same difference exists
between the gods and goddesses, except where
specially otherwise defined . 	Man's name in
Hebrew signifies red, and as the image of fire
1 . Black . 	Water . 	North . 	Back .
2 . Red . 	Fire . 	South . 	Breast .
3. Green . 	Wood . 	East . 	Mouth .
4 . White . 	Metal . 	West . 	Knee .
5. Yellow . 	Earth . 	Middle . 	Foot .

150 	CHURCH
is love, it is the universal tie of beings from
breast to breast .
GREEN . 71~, Irq, viridis, verdure . Y 1 1)1, the
firmament, also the winds . Green designates
the beginning, the creation, the birth, as the
world was called into being in the wisdom of
God by his word of mouth, and Light was to
appear in the East . Phtha was the Egyptian
Creator of the world ; he was at times repre-
sented with his flesh painted green, and hold-
ing a scepter of four colors, red, blue, green, and
yellow : fire, air, water, and earth . The god
Lunus, the Moon, in Hebrew 71`, irhe, is
formed of one of the roots of green, signifying
to found or set in order . Green is the symbol
of Victory as well as Hope, in the symbolic
colors . (See Green .)
WarrE . 11ri, Heur, to be white ; C'11 i,
Heurim, to be noble and pure . The Egyptian
spirits of the dead were clothed in white, like
the priests . Phtha, the creator and regenera-
tor, was frequently robed in a white vestment,
symbol of the egg from which he was born, en-
veloped in the white or albumen . The head of
Osiris was draped in a white tunic . While the
Chinese metaphorically represented Metal by
this color, the Egyptians and Hebrews made it
the symbol of Earth . Its reference to the West
would imply the first point whereat the pro-
fane bent the knee in supplication to the Deity .
YELLOW . ]'13, Tseb, gold color, designates a
radiation of light, signifying to shine, to be
resplendent . Man, or the male principle, sym-
bolized by ardent fire, was represented by red,
and the female principle, identified with the
idea of light or flame, represented by yellow
or light-colored earth, over which the swift-
footed messenger bears the tidings of a Mason's
distress and the return of obligatory succor .
This light of the fire, the female of Divine
beauty, the Egyptian Venus, was called Athor,
signifying dwelling of Horus, and was thus
represented .
Church, Freemasons of the . An Archi-
tectural College was organized in London, in
the year 1842, under the name of "Freemasons
of the Church for the Recovery, Maintenance,
and Furtherance of the True Principles and
Practice of Architecture ." The founders an-
nounced their objects to be "the rediscovery
of the ancient principles of architecture ; the
eauction of good principles of building, and
CIPHER
the condemnation of bad ones ; the exercise of
scientific and experienced judgment in the
choice and use of the most proper materials ;
the infusion, maintenance, and advancement
of science throughout architecture* and event-
ually, by developing the powers of the College
upon a just and beneficial footing, to reform
the whole practice of architecture, to raise it
from its present vituperated condition, and to
bring around it the same unquestioned honor
which is at present enjoyed by almost every
other profession ." (TheBuilder, vol . i ., p . 23 .
One of their own members has said that
"the title was not intended to express any con-
formity with the general body of Freemasons,
but rather as indicative of the professed views
of the College, namely, the recovery, main-
tenance, and furtherance of the free principles
and practice of architecture ." And that, in
addition, they made it an object of their exer-
tions to preserve or effect the restoration of
architectural remains of antiquity threatened
unnecessarily with demolition or endangered
by decay . But it is evident, from the close
connection of modern Freemasonry with the
building guilds of the Middle Ages that any
investigations into the condition of" medieval
architecture must throw light on Masonic
history .
Cipher Writing . 	Cryptography, or the
art of writing in cipher, so as to conceal the
meaning of what is written from all except
those who possess the key, may be traced to
remote antiquity. De la Guilletiere (Lace-
dcemon) attributes its origin to the Spartans,
and Polybius says that more than two thou-
sand years ago . Eneas Tacitus had collected
more than twenty different kinds of cipher
which were then m use . Kings and generals
communicated their messages to officers in
distant provinces, by means of a preconcerted
cipher- and the system has always been em-
ployed wherever there was a desire or a neces-
sity to conceal from all but those who were
entitled to the knowledge the meaning of a
written document .
The Druids, who were not permitted by the
rules of their Order to commit any part of
their ritual to ordinary writing, preserved the
memory of it by the use of the letters of the
Greek alphabet . The Kabbalists concealed
many words by writing them backward : a
method which is still pursued by the French
Masons . The old alchemists also made use of
cipher writing, in order to conceal those proc-
esses the knowledge of which was intended
only for the adepts . Thus Roger Bacon, who
discovered the composition of gunpowder, is
said to have concealed the names of the in-
gredients under a cipher made by a transpo-
sition of the letters .
Cornelius Agrippa tells us, in his Occult
Philosophy, that the ancients accounted it
unlawful to write the mysteries of God with
those characters with which profane and vul-
gar things were written ; and he cites Por-
phyry as saying that the ancients desired to
conceal God, and divine virtues, by sensible
figures which were visible, yet signified invie-

CIPHER
ible things, and therefore delivered their great
mysteries in sacred letters, and explained them
by symbolical representations . Porphyry here
undoubtedly, referred to the invention and
use of hieroglyphics by the Egyptian priests ;
but these hieroglyphic characters were in fact
nothing else but a form of cipher intended to
conceal their instructions from the uninitiated
profane .
Peter Aponas, an astrological writer of the
thirteenth century, gives us some of the old
ciphers which were used by the Kabbalists,
and among others one alphabet called "the
passing of the river," which is referred to in
some of the high degrees of Masonry .
But we obtain from Agrippa one alphabet
in cipher which is of interest to Masons, and
which he says was once in great esteem among
the Kabbahsts, but which has now, he adds,
become so common as to be placed among
profane things . He describes this cipher as
follows (Philos . Occult ., lib . iii ., cap . 3) : The
twenty-seven characters (including the finals)
of the Hebrew alphabet were divided into
three classes of nine in each, and these were
distributed into nine squares, made by the in-
tersection of two horizontal and two vertical
lines, forming the following figure :
6 	15 	14
9 18 	17
In each of these compartments three letters
were placed - as, for instance, in the first com-
partment, tie first, tenth, and nineteenth let-
ters of the alphabet ; in the second compart-
ment, the second, eleventh, and twentieth,
and so on . The three letters in each compart-
ment were distin gut'shed from each other by
dots or accents . Thus, the first compartment,
or L, represented the first letter or K ; the
same compartment with a dot, thus, L, rep-
resented the tenth letter, or :) ; or with two
dots, thus, L, it represented the nineteenth
letter, or 7 ; and so with the other compart-
ments ; the ninth or last representing the
ninth, eighteenth, and twenty-seventh letters,
to, 2, or y, accordingly as it was figured ,, 1
or ' .1, without a dot in the center or with one
or two .
About the middle of the last century, the
French Masons adopted a cipher similar to
this in principle, but varied in the details,
among which was the addition of four com-
partments, made by the oblique intersection
of two lines in the form of a St . Andrew's
Cross . This cipher was never officially adopted
by the Masons of any other country, but was
at one time assumed by the American Royal
Arch ; although it is now becoming obsolete
there . It is, however, still recognized in all the
CIRCLES 	151
"Tuilleurs" of the French Rite . It has be-
come so common as to be placed, as Agrippa
said of the original scheme, "among profane
things ." 	Its use would certainly no longer
subserve any purpose of concealment . Rock-
well openly printed it in his Ahiman Rezon
of Georgia ; and it is often used by those who
are not initiated, as a means of amusement .
There is, therefore, really no recognized
cipher in use in Ancient Craft Masonry .
Browne and Finch, who printed rituals in-
tended only for the use of Masons, and not as
expositions, invented ciphers for their own
use, and supplied their initiated readers with
the key . 	Without a key, their works are un-
intelligible, except by the art of the decipherer .
Although not used in symbolic Masonry,
the cipher is common in the high degrees, of
which there is scarcely one which has not its
peculiar cipher . But for the purposes of con-
cealment, the cipher is no longer of 'any prac-
tical use . 	The art of deciphering has been
brought to so great a state of perfection that
there is no cipher so complicated as to bid
defiance for many hours to the penetrating
skill of the experienced decipherer . Hence, the
cipher has gone out of use in Masonry as it
has among diplomatists, who are compelled to
communicate with their respective countries
by methods more secret than any that can be
supplied by a dispatch written in cipher .
Edgar A . Poe has justly said, in his story of
The Gold Bug, that "it may well be doubted
whether human ingenuity can construct an
enigma of the kind, which human ingenuity
may not, by proper application resolve ."
Cipriani, Jean Baptiste . 	1727--85 .) 	A
famous Florentine artist, who came to Eng-
land in 1755, and cooperated with Bartolozzi
in the production of the frontispiece of the
1784 Edition of the Book of Constitutions .
Circle . 	The circle being a figure which
returns into itself, 	and having therefore
neither beginning nor end, has been adopted
in the symbology of all countries and times as
a symbol sometimes of the universe and some-
times of eternity . With this idea in the Zoro-
astrian mysteries of Persia, and frequently in
the Celtic mysteries of Druidism, the temple
of initiation was circular . 	In the obsolete lec-
tures of the old English system, it was said
that "the circle has ever been considered sym-
bolical of the Deity ; for as a circle appears to
have neither beginning nor end, it may be
justly considered a type of God, without
either beginning of days or ending of years .
It also reminds us of a future state, where we
hope to enjoy everlasting happiness and joy ."
But whatever refers especially to the Masonic
symbolism of the circle will be more appropri-
ately contained in the article on the Point
within a Circle .
Circles (Kranzchen) . 	There are in Ger-
many many small Masonic clubs, or Circles,
which are formed in subordination to some
Lodge which exercises a supervision over them
and is responsible for their good behavior to
the Grand Lodge, by whose permission they
have been established . The members devote

152 	CIRCUIT
themselves to Masonic work organize lec-
tures, etc ., and acquire a Masonic library .
(ArsQuatuorCoronatorum, ix ., 66 .) [E . L . H .]
Circuit . 	Fort, in his Early History and
Antiquities of Freemasonry, says : "Northern
kings, immediately upon acceding to the
throne, made a `gait or procession about
their realms . According to the Scandinavian
laws, when real property was sold, granted, or
conveyed, the transfer of possession was in-
complete until a circuit was made around the
estate by the buyer and vendor, in which tour
all the inhabitants of the nearest hamlet
united . . . "
"During the installation ceremonies of the
Master of a Masonic Lodge, a procession of all
the Craftsmen march around the room before
the Master, to whom an appropriate salute is
tendered . This Circuit is designed to signify
that the new incumbent reduces the Lodge
to his possession in this symbolic manner ."
(P . 320 .)
Circular Temples . 	These were used in
the initiations of the religion of Zoroaster .
Like the square temples of Masonry, and the
other mysteries, they were symbolic of the
world ; and the symbol was completed by
making the circ um ference of the circle a rep-
resentation of the zodiac . In the mysteries of
Druidism also, the temples were sometimes
circular .
Circumambulation, Rite of . Circum-
ambulation is the name given by sacred arch-
eologists to that religious rite in the ancient
initiations which consisted in a formal pro-
cession around the altar, or other holy and
consecrated object . The same Rite exists in
Freemasonry .
In ancient Greece, when the priests were
engaged in the rite of sacrifice, they and the
people always walked three times round the
altar while singing a sacred hymn . In making
this procession great care was taken to move
in imitation R the course of the sun . For
this purpose, they commenced at the east,
and passing on by the way of the south to the
west and thence by the north, they arrived at
the east again .* By this means, as it will be
observed, the right hand was always placed to
the altar . t
This ceremony the Greeks called moving,
1K aeilas eis S€liav, from the right to the
right, which was the direction of the motion,
and the Romans applied to it the term dex-
trovorsum, or dextrorsum, which signifies the
same thing . Thus, Plautus (Curcul ., I ., i . 70)
makes Palinurus, a character in his comedy of
Curculio, say : "If you would do reverence to
the gods, you must turn to the right hand ."
Si deos salutas dextroversum censeo . Gronovius,
* The strophe of the ancient hymn was sung in
going from the east to the west ; the antistrophe
in returning to the east, and the epode while
standing still .
t "After this," says Potter, "they stood about
the altar, and the priest, turning towards the
right hand, went round it and sprinkled it with
meal and holy water ." (Antiquities of Greece,
B . II ., ch . iv ., p . 206 .)
CIRCUMAMBULATION
in commenting on this passage of Plautus,
says : "In worshiping and praying to the gods,
they were accustomed to turn to the right
hand ."
A hymn of Callimachus has been preserved,
which is said to have been chanted by the
priests of Apollo at Delos, while performing
this ceremony of circumambulation, the sub-
stance of which is "we imitate the example of
the sun, and follow his benevolent course ."
Among the Romans, the ceremony of cir-
cumambulation was always used in the rites
of sacrifice, of expiation or purification . Thus,
Virgil (ZEn ., vi ., 229) describes Corynwus as
purifying his companions at the funeral of
Misenus, by passing three times around them
while aspersing them with the lustral waters ;
and to do so conveniently, it was necessary
that he should have moved with his right hand
toward them .
Idem ter soeios pura circumtulit undo,
Spargens rore levi et ramo felicis olive	.
That is :
"Thrice with pure water compass'd he the crew,
Sprinkling, with olive branch, the gentle dew ."
In fact, so common was it to unite the cere-
mony of circumambulation with that of expi-
ation or purification, or, in other words, to
make a circuitous procession in performing the
latter rite, that the term lustrare, whose prim-
itive meaning is "to purify," came at last to be
synonymous with circumire, to walk round
anything, and hence a purification and a cir-
cumambulation were often expressed by the
same word .
Among the Hindus, the same Rite of Cir-
cumambulation has always been practised .
As an instance, we may cite the ceremonies
which are to be performed by a Brahman,
upon first rising from bed in the morning, an
accurate account of which has been given by
Mr . Colebrooke in the sixth volume of the
Asiatic Researches . 	The priest having first
adored the sun, while directing his face to the
east, then walks toward the west by the way
of the south, saying, at the same time, "I
follow the course of the sun," which he thus
explains : "As the sun in his course moves
round the world by way of the south, so do I
follow that luminary, to obtain the benefit
arising from a journey round the earth by the
way of the south ."
Lastly, we may refer to the preservation of
this Rite among the Druids, whose "mystical
dance" around the cairn, or sacred stones, was
nothing more nor less than the Rite of Cir-
cumambulation . On these occasions, the priest
always made three circuits from east to west,
by the right hand, around the altar or cairn,
accompanied by all the worshipers . And so
sacred was the rite once considered, that we
learn from Toland (Celt . Rel . and Learn ., II .,
xvii .) that in the Scottish Isles, once a principal
seat of the Druidical religion, the people
"never come to the ancient sacrificing and
fire-hallowing cairns, but they walk three
times around them, from east to west, accord-

CIRCUMSPECTION
fng to the course of the sun ." This sanctified
tour, or round by the south, he observes, is
called Deaseal, as the contrary, or unhallowed
one by the north, is called Tuapholl . And, he
further remarks, that this word Deaseal was
derived "from Deas, the right (understanding
hand) and soil, one of the ancient names of the
sun ; the right hand in this round being ever
next the heap ."
This Rite of Circumambulation undoubt-
edly refers to the doctrine of sun-worship,
because the circumambulation was always
made around the sacred place, just as the sun
was supposed to move around the earth ; and
although the dogma of sun-worship does not
of course exist in Freemasonry ; we find an
allusion to it in the Rite of Circumambula-
tion, which it preserves, as well as in the posi-
tion of the officers of a Lodge and in the sym-
bol of a point within a circle .
Circumspection . 	A necessary watchful-
ness is recommended to every man, but in a
Mason it becomes a positive duty, and the
neglect of it constitutes a heinous crime . On
this subject, the Old Charges of 1722 (vi ., 4)
are explicit . "You shall be cautious in your
words and carriage that the most penetrating
stranger shall not J,e able to discover or find
out what is not proper to be imitated ; and
sometimes you shall divert a discourse and
manage it prudently for the Honour of the
Worshipful Fraternity ." (Constitutions, 1723,
p . 55 .)
City of David . 	A section in the southern
part of Jerusalem, embracing Mount Zion,
where a fortress of the Jebusites stood, which
David reduced, and where he built a new pal-
ace and city, to which he gave his own name .
City of the Great King . 	Jerusalem, so
called in Psalm xlviii . 2, and by the Savior
in Matt . v . 35 .
Civilization and Freemasonry . Those
who investigate in the proper spirit the his-
tory of Speculative Masonry will be strongly
impressed with the peculiar relations that
exist between the history of Masonry and
that of civilization . They will find these facts
to be patent : that Freemasonry has ever been
the result of civilization ; that in the most
ancient times the spirit of Masonry and the
spirit of civilization have always gone to-
gether ; that the progress of both has been with
equal strides ; that where there has been no
appearance of civilization there has been no
trace of Masonry ; and, finally, that wherever
Masonry has existed in any of its forms, there
it has been surrounded and sustained by civil-
ization, which social condition it in turn ele-
vated and purified .
Speculative Masonry, therefore, seems to
have been a necessary result of civilization .
It is, even in its primitive and most simple
forms, to be found among no barbarous or
savage people . 	Such a state of society has
never been capable of introducing or maintain-
ing its abstract principles of Divine truth .
But while Speculative Masonry is the result
of civilization, existing only in its bosom and
never found among barbarous or savage races,
CLANDESTINE 	153
it has by a reactionary law of sociology,
prove the means of extending and elevating
the civilization to which it originally owed its
birth . Civilization has always been progres-
sive . That of Pelasgic Greece was far behind
that which distinguished the Hellenic period
of the same country . The civilization of the
ancient world was inferior to that of the mod-
ern, and every century shows an advancement
in the moral, intellectual, and social condition
of mankind . But in this progress from imper-
fection to perfection the influence of those
speculative systems that are identical with
Freemasonry has always been seen and felt .
Let us, for an example, look at the ancient
heathen world and its impure religions . While
the people of Paganism bowed, in their igno-
rance, to a many-headed god, or, rather, wor-
shiped at the shrines of many gods, whose
mythological history and character must have
exercised a pernicious effect on the moral pur-
ity of their worshipers, Speculative Philoso-
phy, in the form of the "Ancient Mysteries,"
was exercising its influence upon a large class
of neophytes and disciples, by giving this true
symbolic interpretation of the old religious
myths . In the adyta of their temples in Greece
and Rome and Egypt, in the sacred caves of
India, and in the consecrated groves of Scan-
dinavia and Gaul and Britain, these ancient
sages were secretly divesting the Pagan faith
of its polytheism and of its anthropomorphic
deities, and were establishing a pure mono-
theism in its place, and illustrating, by a pe-
culiar symbolism, the great dogmas-since
taught in Freemasonry-of the unity of God
and the immortality of the soul . And in mod-
ern times, when the religious thought of man-
kind under a better dispensation, has not
required this purification, Masonry still, in
other ways, exerts its influence in elevating
the tone of civilization ; for through its work-
ing the social feelings have been strengthened,
the amenities and charities of life been refined
and extended, and, as we have had recent
reason to know and see, the very bitterness of
strife and the blood-guiltiness of war have
been softened and oftentimes obliterated .
We then arrive at these conclusions, namely,
that Speculative Masonry is a result of civili-
zation, for it exists in no savage or barbarous
state of society, but has always appeared with
the advent in any country of a condition of
civilization, "grown with its growth and
strengthened with its strength" ; 	and, in
return, has proved, by a reactionary influence,
a potent instrument in extending, elevatin*,
and refining the civilization which gave it
birth, by advancing its moral, intellectual,
and religious character .
Clandestine . The ordinary meaning of
this word is secret, hidden . The French word
clandestin, from which it is derived, is defined
by Boiste to be something "fait en cachette et
contre les loin," done in a hiding-place and
against the laws, which better suits the Ma-
sonic signification, which is illegal, not au-
thorized . 	Irregular is often used for small
departures from custom .

154 	CLANbESTINE
Clandestine Lodge . 	A body of Masons
uniting in a Lodge without the consent of a
Grand Lodge, or, although originally legally
constituted, continuing to work after its char-
ter has been revoked, is styled a "Clandestine
Lodge ." Neither Anderson nor Entick em-
ploy the word . It was first used in the Book of
Constitutions in a note b 	Noortbouck, on
page 239 of his edition . 	(Constitutions, 1784 .)
regular Lodge would be the better term .
Clandestine Mason . One made in or
affiliated with a clandestine Lodge . 	With
clandestine Lodges or Masons, regular Masons
are forbidden to associate or converse on Ma-
sonic subjects .
Clare, Martin . 	A London schoolmaster
and a celebrated Mason of England in the last
century . He was a man of some distinction in
literary circles, for he was a Fellow of the
Royal Society . He was a Grand Steward in
1734, Junior Grand Warden in 1735, and in
1741, Deputy Grand Master. He was dis-
tinguished for zeal and intelligence in Mar
sonry and it has been pretty well established
that he was the author of A Defence of Ma-
sonry, which was issued in 1730 in answer to
Prichard's Masonry Dissected, and which was
reproduced in the 1738 Edition of the Con-
stitutions . (Ars Quatuor Coronatorum vol .
iv ., 33-41 .) 	He translated into English a
work which had been published the preceding
year, in Dublin, under the title of Relation
Apologa',que et Historique de la Socltte des
Franc-Macons . 	In 1735, he delivered an ad-
dress before the Grand Lodge, which was
translated into French and German . He died
in 1751 . 	[E . L . H .]
Clarence, H . R . H . the Duke of, after-
ward King William IV ., was initiated in
Lodge 86, Plymouth, on March 9, 1796 .
Classification of Masons . 	Oliver says, in
his Dictionary of Symbolical Masonry (s . v .
Classes), that ancient Masonic tradition in-
forms us that the Speculative and Operative
Masons who were assembled at the building
of the Temple were arranged in nine classes,
under their respective Grand Masters ; viz .,
30,000 Entered Apprentices, 	under their
Grand Master Adoniram ; 	80,000 Fellow-
Crafts, under Hiram Abif ; 2,000 Mark Men,
under Stolkyn ; 1,000 Master Masons, under
Mohabin ; 600 Mark Masters, under Ghiblim ;
24 Architects, under Joabert ; 12 Grand Ar-
chitects, under Adoniram ; 45 Excellent Ma-
sons, under Hiram Abif • 9 Super-Excellent
Masons, under Tito Zacdok ; besides the Ish
Sabbal or laborers . The tradition is, how-
ever rather apocryphal .
davel, F . T . Begue . 	An abbe . A French
Masonic writer, who published, in 1842, a
Histoire Pittoresque de la Franc-Magonnerie et
des Socittes Secretes Anciennes et Modernes .
This work contains a great amount of interest-
ing and valuable information, notwithstand-
many historical inaccuracies, especially in
erence to the Ancient Accepted Scottish
Rite, of which the author was an adversary .
For the publication of the work without au-
thority he was suspended by the Grand Orient
CLEAN
for two months and condemned to pay a fine .
Clavel appealed' to the intelligence of the Fra-
ternity against thiss sentence . In 1844, he com-
menced the publication of a Masonic Journal
called the Grand Orient, the title of which he
subsequently changed to the Orient . 	As he
had not obtained the consent of the Grand
Orient, he was again brought before that body,
and the sentence of perpetual exclusion from
the Grand Orient pronounced against him .
Rebold says that it was the act of a ,faction,
and obtained by unfair means . 	It was not
sustained by the judgment of the Craft in
France, with whom Clavel gained reputation
and popularity . 	Notwithstanding the Mar
sonic literary labors of Clavel, an account of
the time of his birth or of his death, appears
to be obscure . His desire seemed to be to es-
tablish as history, by publication, those views
which he personally entertained and formed ;
gathered from sources of doubtful character,
he desired they should not be questioned in
the future, semel pro semper .
Clay . 	See Chalk, Charcoal, and Clay .
Clay Ground . In the clay ground between
Succoth and Zeredatha Hiram Abif cast all
the sacred vessels of the 'Temple, as well as the
pillars of the porch . 	This spot was about
thirty-five miles in a northeast direction from
Jerusalem ; and it is supposed that Hiram
selected it for his foundry because the clay
which abounded there was,'by its great tenac-
ity, peculiarly fitted for making molds . 	The
Masonic tradition on this subject is sustained
by the authority of Scripture . (See 1 Kings vii .
46, and 2 Chron . iv . 17 .) Morris, in his Free-
masonry in the Holy Land, gives the following
interesting facts in reference to this locality .
"A singular fact came to light under the in-
vestigations of my assistant at Jerusalem .
He discovered that the jewellers of that city, at
the present day, use a particular species of
brown, arenaceous clay in making moulds for
casting small pieces in brass, etc . Inquiring
whence this clay comes they reply, `From
Seikoot about two days' journey north-east of
Jerusalem .' Here, then, is a satisfactory reply
to the question, Where was the `clay ground'
of Hiram's foundries? It is the best matrix-
clay existing within reach of Hiram Abif, and
it is found only in `the clay ground between
Succoth and Zeredatha' ; and considerable as
was the distance, and extremely inconvenient
as was the locality, so important did that
master-workman deem it, to secure a sharp
and perfect mould for his castings, that, as
the Biblical record informs us, he established
his furnaces there ."
Clean Hands . 	Clean hands are a symbol
of purity . The psalmist says "that he only
shall ascend into the hill of the Lord, or shall
stand in his holy place, who hath clean hands
and a pure heart ." Hence, the washing of the
hands is an outward sign of an internal puri-
fication ; and the psalmist says in another
place, "I will wash my hands in innocence .
And I will encompass thine altar, Jehovah ."
In the Ancient Mysteries the washing of the
hands was always an introductory ceremony

CLEAVE
to the initiation ; and, of course, it was used
symbolically to indicate the necessity of purity
from crime as a qualification of those who
sought admission into the sacred rites ; and
hence, on a temple in the Island of Crete, this
inscription was placed : "Cleanse your feet,
wash your hands, and then enter." Indeed,
the washing of hands, as symbolic of purity,
was among the ancients a peculiarly religious
rite . No one dared to pray to the gods until he
had cleansed his hands . Thus, Homer makes
Hector say :
" xepai 8' avi,rrow v Alt Aetsety ateoaa oivov
"Atoμat ." 	(Iliad, vi., 266 .)
"I dread with unwashed hands to bring
My incensed wine to Jove an offering ."
In a similar spirit of reli ion, 1Eneas, when
leaving burning Troy, reuses to enter the
Temple of Ceres until his hands, polluted by
recent strife, had been washed in the living
stream .
Me hello e tanto digressum et `cede recenti,
Attrectare nefas, donee me flumine vivo
Abluero ." 	(,'n ., ii ., 718 .)
"In me, now fresh from war and recent strife,
'T is impious the sacred things to touch,
Till in the living stream myself I bathe ."
The same practise prevailed among the
Jews, and a striking instance of the symbol-
ism is exhibited in that well-known action of
Pilate who, when the Jews clamored for Jesus
that they might crucify him, appeared before
the people, and, having taken water, washed
his hands, saying at the same time, `I am in-
nocent of the blood of this just man, see ye to
it."
The white gloves worn by Masons as a part
of their clothing, alluded to this symbolizing
of clean hands ; and what in some of the high
degrees has been called "Masonic Baptism"
is nothing else but the symbolizing, by a cere-
mony, this doctrine of clean hands as the sign
of a pure heart .
Cleave . The word to cleave is twice used
in Masonry, and each time in an opposite
sense . First, in the sense of adhering, where
the sentence in which it is employed is in the
Past Master's Degree, and is taken from the
137th Psalm : "Let my tongue cleave to the
roof of my mouth" ; second, in the Master's
Degree, where, in the expression "The flesh
cleaves from the bone," it has the intransitive
meaning of to separate, and is equivalent to
"the flesh parts, or separates, itself from the
bone ." In this latter use the word is obsolete,
and used only technically as a Masonic term .
Cleche . 	A cross charged with another of
the same figure, but whose color is that of the
field .
Clefts of the Rocks . 	The whole of Pales-
tine is very mountainous, and these moun-
tains abound in deep clefts or eaves, which
were anciently places of refuge to the nhabit-
ants in time of war, and were often used as
lurking places for robbers . It is, therefore,
strictly m accordance with geographical truth
CLERMONT 	1,55
that the statement, in relation to the con-
cealment of certain persons in the clefts of the
rocks, is made in the Third Degree . 	(See the
latter part of the article Caverns .)
Clement XU . 	A Pope who assumed the
pontificate on the 12th of August, 1730, and
died on the 6th of February, 1740 . On the
24th of April, 1738, he published his cele-
brated bull of excommunication, entitled In
Eminenti Apostolatus Specula, in which we
find these words : "For which reason the tem-
poral and spiritual communities are enjoined,
in the name of holy obedience, neither to enter
the society of Freemasons, to disseminate its
principles, to defend it, nor to admit nor con-
ceal it within their houses or palaces, or else-
where, under pain of excommunication ipso
facto, for all acting in contradiction to this,
and from which the pope only can absolve the
dying ." Clement was a bitter persecutor of
the Masonic Order, and hence he caused his
Secretary of State, the Cardinal Firrao, to
issue on the 14th of January, 1739, a still
more stringent edict for the Papal States, in
which death and confiscation of property,
without hope of mercy, was the penalty, or, as
the original has it, "sotto Pena della morte, e
confiscazione de beni da incorressi, i remissi-
bilmente senz a speranza di grazia ."
Clerks of Strict - Observance . Known
also as the Spiritual Branch of the Templars,
or Clerici Ordinis Templarii . 	This was a
schism from the Order or Rite of Strict Ob-
servance, and was founded by Starck in 1767 .
The members of this Rite established it as a
rival of the latter system . They claimed a
preeminence not only over the Rite of Strict
Observance, but also over all the Lodges of
ordinary Masonry, and asserted that they alone
possessed the true secrets of the Order, and
knew the place where the treasures of the
Templars were deposited . (For a further his-
tory of this Rite, see Starck .) 	The Rite con-
sisted of seven degrees, viz . : 1, 2 and 3 . Sym-
bolic Masonry . 4 . Junior Scottish Mason, or
Jungschotte . 5 . Scottish Master, or Knight
of St . Andrew . 6 . Provincial Capitular of the
Red Cross . 7 . Magus, or Knight of Purity
and Light . 	Clavel (Histoire Pittoresque, p .
186) gives different names to some of the
degrees . 	This last was subdivided into five
sections, as follows : I . Knight Novice of the
third year . 	II . Knight Novice of the fifth
year . III . Knight Novice of the seventh year .
IV . Levite, and V . Priest . Ragon errs in call-
ing this the Rite of Lax Observance .
Clermont, Chapter of . 	On the 24th of
November 1754, the Chevalier de Bonneville
established in Paris a Chapter of the high
degrees under this name, which was derived
from the Jesuitical Chapter of Clermont .
This society was composed of many distin-
guished persons of the court and city, who,
disgusted with the dissensions of the Parisian
Lodges, determined to separate from them .
They adopted the Templar system, which had
been created at Lyons, m 1743, and their Rite
consisted at first of but six degrees, viz . : 1 !&'
2
3 . St . John's Masonry . 	4 . Knight of

156 	CLERMONT
Eagle . 5 . Illustrious Knight or Templar . 6 .
Sublime Illustrious Knight . But soon after
the number of these degrees was greatly ex-
tended . The Baron de Hund received the high
degrees in this Chapter, and derived from them
the idea of the Rite of Strict Observance,
which he subsequently established in Ger-
many .
Clermont, College of . 	A college of
Jesuits in Paris, where James II ., after his
flight from England, in 1688, resided until his
removal to St . Germains . During his resi-
dence there, he is said to have sought the es-
tablishment of a system of Freemasonry, the
object of which should be the restoration of
the House of Stuart to the throne of England .
Relics of this attempted system are still to be
found in many of the high degrees, and the
Chapter of Clermont, subsequently organized
in Paris, appears to have had some reference
to it .
Clermont, Count of . 	Louis of Bourbon,
prince of the blood and Count of Clermont,
was elected by sixteen of the Paris Lodges per-
petual Grand Master, for the purpose of cor-
recting the numerous abuses which had crept
into French Masonry . He did not, however,
fulfil the expectations of the French Masons ;
for the next year he abandoned the super-
vision of the Lodges, and new disorders arose .
He still, however, retained the Grand Master-
ship, and died in 1771, being succeeded by his
nephew, the Duke of Chartres .
Clinton, De Witt . A distinguished states-
man, who was born at Little Britain, New
York, March 2, 1769 and died on the 11th of
February, 1828 . 	Ve entered the Masonic
Order in 1793, and the next year was elected
Master of his Lodge . In 1806, he was elevated
to the position of Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of New York, and in 1814, to that of
Grand Master of the Grand Encampment .
In 1816, he was elected General Grand High
Priest of the General Grand Chapter of the
United States . In 1813, he became unwit-
tingly complicated with the Spurious Con-
sistory, established by Joseph Cerneau in the
city of New York, but he took no active part
in its proceedings, and soon withdrew from all
connection with it . When the anti-Masonic
excitement arose in this country in 1826, in
consequence of the affair of William Morgan,
whom the Masons were accused of having put
to death, Mr . Clinton was Governor of the
State of New York, and took all the necessary
measures for the arrest of the supposed crim-
inals . But, although he offered a liberal re-
ward for their detection he was charged by
the anti-Masons with official neglect and in-
difference, charges which were undoubtedly
false and malicious . 	Spenser, the special
attorney of the State, employed for the pros-
ecution of the offenders, went so far as to
resign his office, and to assign, as a reason for
his resignation, the want of sympathy and
support on the part of the Executive . But all
of the accusations and insinuations are prop-
erly to be attributed to political excitement,
anti-Masonry having been adopted soon after
CLOUDED
its origin by the politicians as an engine for
their advancement to office . Clinton was an
honorable man and a true patriot . He was
also an ardent and devoted Mason .
Closing . The duty of closing the Lodge
is as imperative, and the ceremony as solemn,
as that of opening ; nor should it ever be
omitted through negligence, nor hurried over
with haste but everything should be per-
formed with order and precision so that no
brother shall go away dissatisfied . From the
very nature of our Constitution, a Lodge can-
not properly be adjourned . It must be closed
either in due form, or the brethren called off
to refreshment . But an adjournment on mo-
tion, as in other societies, is unknown to the
Order . 	The Master can alone dismiss the
brethren, and that dismission must take place
after a settled usage . In Grand Lodges which
meet for several days successively, the session
is generally continued from day to day, by
calling to refreshment at the termination of
each day's sitting .
Clothed . 	A Mason is said to be properly
clothed when he wears white leather gloves, a
white apron, and the jewel of his Masonic
rank . The gloves are now often, but improp-
erly, dispensed with, except on public occa-
sions . 	"No Mason is permitted to enter a
Lodge or join in its labors unless he is prop-
erly clothed ." Lenning, speaking of Conti-
nental Masonry, under the article Kleidung
in his Lexicon, says that the clothing of a
Freemason consists of apron, gloves, sword,
and hat . In the York and American Rites, the
sword and hat are used only in the degrees of
chivalry . 	In the catechisms of the early eigh-
teenth century the Master of a Lodge was de-
scribed as clothed in a yellow jacket and a blue
pair of breeches, in allusion to the brass top
and steel legs of a pair of compasses . After the
middle of the century, he was said to be
"clothed in the old colors, viz ., purple, crim-
son, and blue" ; and the reason assigned for it
was "because they are royal, and such as the
ancient kings and princes used to wear ." The
actual dress of a Master Mason was, however,
a full suit of black, with white neck-cloth,
apron, gloves, and stockings ; the buckles
being of silver, and the jewels being suspended
from a white ribbon by way of collar . (For the
clothing and decorations of the different de-
grees, see Regalia .)
Clothing the Lodge . In the "Generat
Regulations," approved by the Grand Lodge
of England in 1721, it is provided in article
seven that "Every new Brother at his making
is decently to cloath the Lodge, that is, all the
Brethren present ; and to deposit something
for the relief of indigent and decayed Breth-
ren ." By "clothing the Lodge" was meant
furnishing the Brethren with gloves and
aprons . The regulation no longer exists . It is
strange that Oliver should have quoted as the
authority for this usage a subsequent regula-
tion of 1767 . In Scotland this was practised
in several Lodges to a comparatively recent
date .
Clouded Canopy . See Canopy, Clouded .

CLOUD
Cloud, Pillar of . See Pillars of Cloud and
Fire .
Cloudy . A word sometimes improperly
used by the Wardens of a Lodge when report-
ing an unfavorable result of the ballot . The
proper word is foul .
Clubs . 	The eighteenth century was dis-
tinguished in England by the existence of
numerous local and ephemeral associations
under the name of clubs, where men of differ-
ent classes of society met for amusement and
recreation . Each profession and trade had its
club, and "whatever might be a man's charac-
ter or disposition," says Oliver, "he would find
in London a club that would square with his
ideas ." Addison, in his paper on the origin of
clubs (Spectator, No . 9), remarks : "Man is
said to be a social animal, and as an instance of
it we may observe that we take all occasions
and pretences of forming ourselves into those
little nocturnal assemblies which are com-
m known by the name of clubs . When a
set omen find themselves agree in any par-
ticular, though never so trivial, they establish
themselves into a kind of fraternity and meet
once or twice a week, upon the account of such
a fantastic resemblance ." Hard drinking was
characteristic of those times, and excesses too
often marked the meetings of these societies .
It was at this time that the Institution of
Freemasonry underwent its revival com-
monly known as the revival of 1717, and it is
not strange that its social character was some-
what affected by the customs of the day . The
Lodges therefore assumed at that time too
much of a convivial character, derived from
the customs of the existing clubs and coteries ;
but the moral and religious principles upon
which the Institution was founded prevented
any undue indulgence ; and although the
members were permitted the enjoyment of
decent refreshment, there was a standing law
which provided against all excess .
Coat of the Tiler . 	In olden times it was
deemed proper that the Tiler of a Lodge, like
the beadle of a parish-whose functions were
in some respects similar-should be distin-
guished by a tawdry dress . In a schedule of
the regalia, records, etc ., of the Grand Lodge
of all England, taken at York in 1779, to be
found in Hughan's Masonic Sketches and Re-
pnnts (p 33), we find the following item : "a
blue cloth coat with a red collar for the Tyler ."
Cochleus . 	A very corrupt word in the
Fourth Degree of the Scottish Rite ; there said
to signify in the form of a screw, and to be the
name of the winding staircase which led to the
middle chamber . The true Latin word is
cochlea . But the matter is so historically
absurd that the word ought to be and is re-
jected in the modern rituals .
Cock . 	The ancients made the cock a
symbol of courage, and consecrated him to
Mars, Pallas, and Bellona, deities of war .
Some have supposed that it is in reference to
this quality that the cock is used in the jewel
of the Captain-General of an Encampment of
Knights Templar .
Reghellini, however, gives a different ex-
COLE 	157
planation of this symbol . He says that the
cock was the emblem of the sun and of life,
and that as the ancient Christians allegor-
ically deplored the death of the solar orb in
Christ, the cock recalled its life and resur-
rection . The cock, we know, was a symbol
among the early Christians, and is repeatedly
to be found on the tombs in the catacombs of
Rome . Hence it seems probable that we
should give a Christian interpretation to the
jewel of a Knights Templar as symbolic of the
resurrection . .
Cockade . 	Some few of the German
Lodges have a custom of permitting their
members to wear a blue cockade in the hat as
a symbol of equality and freedom-a symbol-
ism which, as Lenning says, it is difficult to
understand, and the decoration is inappropri-
ate as a part of the clothing of a Mason . Yet
it is probable that it was a conception of this
kind that induced Cagliostro to prescribe the
cockade as a part of the investiture of a fe-
male candidate in the initiation of his Lodges
Clavel says the Venerable or Master of a
French Lodge wears a black cockade .
Cockle-Shell . 	The cockle-shell was worn
by ilgrims in their hats as a token of their
profession ; now used in the ceremonies of
Templarism .
Caetus . Latin . An assembly . It is in-
correctly used in some old Latin Masonic
diplomas for a Lodge . It is used by Laurence
Dermott in a diploma dated September 10
1764, where he signs himself "Sec . M . Ceetus,' 1
or Secretary of the Grand Lodge .
Coffin . In the Ancient Mysteries the
aspirant could not claim a participation in
the highest secrets until he had been placed in
the Pastos, bed or coffin . The placing him in
the coffin was called the symbolical death of
the mysteries, and his deliverance was termed
a raising from the dead . "The mind," says an
ancient writer, quoted by Stobaeus, "is af-
fected in death just as it is in the initiation into
the mysteries . And word answers to word, as
well as thing to thing ; for TEXEVra' is to die,
and rEA &neat, to be initiated ." The coffin in
Masonry is found on tracing boards of the
early part of the last century, and has always
constituted a part of the symbolism of the
Third Degree, where the reference is precisely
the same as that of the Pastos in the Ancient
Mysteries .
Cohen . 	1'c . 	A Hebrew word signifying
a priest . The French Masonic writers, indulg-
ing in a Gallic custom of misspelling all names
derived from other languages, universally spell
it coen .
Cohens, Elected . 	See Paschalis, Mar-
tinez .
Cole, Benjamin . 	He published at Lon-
don, in 1728, and again in 1731, the Old Con-
stitutions, engraved on thirty copper plates,
under the title of A Book of the Ancient Con-
stitutions of the Free and Accepted Masons . In
1751, Cole printed a third edition with the
title of The Ancient Constitutions and Charges
of Freemasons, with a true representation of
their noble Art in several Lectures or Speeches .

158 	COLE
Subsequent editions were published up to
1794 . Bro . Richard Spencer, the well known
Masonic bibliographer, says that Cole en-
graved his plates from a MS . which he calls
the Constitutions of 1726, or from a similar
MS . by the same scribe . Bro . Hughan pub-
lished in 1869 in his Constitutions of the
Freemasons, in a limited edition of seventy
copies, a lithograph facsimile of the 1729
Edition of Cole, and in 1897 a facsimile
of the 1731 Edition, which was limited to
200 copies was published by Mr . Richard
Jackson of Leeds, with an introduction by
Bro . Hughan .
Cole, Samuel . He was at one time the
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Mary-
land, and the author of a work entitled The
Freemason's Library, or General Ahiman Rezon,
the first edition of which appeared in 1817,
and the second in 1826 . It is something more
than a mere monitor or manual of the degrees,
and greatly excels in literary pretensions the
contemporary works of Webb and Cross .
Cole's Manuscript . 	The MS . from which
Cole is supposed to have made his engraved
Constitutions, now known as the Spencer MS .
It was in the possession of Bro . Richard Spen-
cer, who published it in 1871, under the title
of A Book of the Ancient Constitutions of the
Free and Accepted Masons . Anno Dom ., 1786 .
The subtitle is The Beginning and First
Foundation of the Most Worthy Craft of Ma-
sonry, with the charges thereunto belonging . 	In
1875 it was bought by Mr . E . T . Carson of
Cincinnati, U . S . A .
Collar . 	An ornament worn around the
neck by the officers of Lodges, to which is sus-
pended a jewel indicative of the wearer's rank .
The color of the collar varies in the different
grades of Masonry . That of a symbolic Lodge
is blue ; of a Past Master, purple ; of a Royal
Arch Mason, scarlet ; of a Secret Master,
white bordered with black ; of a Perfect Mas-
ter, green, etc . These colors are not arbitrary,
but are each accompanied with a symbolic
signification .
In the United States, the collar worn by
Grand Officers in the Grand Lodge is, properly,
pur le edged with gold . In the Grand Lodge
of England, the Grand Officers wear chains of
gold or metal gilt instead of collars, but on
other occasions, collars of ribbon, garter blue,
four inches broad, embroidered or plain .
The-use of the collar in Masonry, as an
official decoration, is of very old date . It is a
regulation that its form should be triangular ;
that is, that it should terminate on the breast
in a point. The symbolical reference is evi-
dent . 	The Masonic collar is derived from the
practises of heraldry ; collars are worn not
only by municipal officers and officers of State,
but also by knights of the different orders as a
part of their investiture .
College . 	The regular Convocation of the
subordinate bodies of the Society of Rosicru-
cians is called an Assemblage of the College,
at which their mysteries are celebrated by ini-
tiation and advancement, at the conclusion
of which the Mystic Circle is broken .
COLLOCATIO
Colleges, Irish . These Were established
in Paris between 1730 and 1740, and were
rapidly being promulgated over France, when
they were superseded by the Scottish Chap-
ters .
Colleges, Masonic . There was atone time
a great disposition exhibited by the Fraternity
of the United States to establish colleges, to
be placed under the supervision of Grand
Lodges . The first one ever endowed in this
country was that at Lexington, in Missouri,
established by the Grand Lodge of that State,
in October, 1841, which for some time pursued
a prosperous career . Other GrandLodges, such
as those of Kentucky, Mississippi, Arkansas,
North Carolina, Florida, and a few others,
subsequently either actually organized or took
the preliminary steps for organizing Masonic
colleges in their respective jurisdictions . But
experience has shown that there is an incon-
gruity between the official labors of a Grand
Lodge as the Masonic head of the Order and
the superintendence and support of a college .
Hence, these institutions have been very gen-
erally discontinued, and the care of providing
for the education of indigent children of the
Craft has been wisely committed to the sub-
ordinate Lodges .
The late Thomas Brown, the distinguished
Grand Master of Florida, thus expressed the
following correct views on this subject :
"We question if the endowment of colleges
and large seminaries of learning, under the
auspices and patronage of Masonic bodies, be
the wisest plan for the accomplishment of the
great design, or is in accordance with the
character and principles of the Fraternity .
Such institutions savor more of pageantry
than utility ; and as large funds, amassed for
such purposes, must of necessity be placed
under the control and management of com-
paratively few, it will have a corrupting influ-
ence, promote discord, and bring re roach
upon the Craft . The principles of Masonry
do not sympathize with speculations in stock
and exchange brokerage . Such, we fear, will
be the evils attendant on such institutions, to
say nothing of the questionable right and
policy of drawing funds from the subordinate
Lodges, which could be appropriated by their
proper officers more judiciously, economically,
and faithfully to the accomplishment of the
same great and desirable object in the true
Masonic spirit of charity, which is the bond of
peace ."
Collegla Artifleum . 	Colleges of Artif .
icers . (See Roman Colleges of Artificers .)
Collegium . 	In Roman jurisprudence, a
collegium, or college, expressed the idea of
several persons united together in any office
or for any common purpose . It required not
less than three to constitute a college, ac-
cording to the law maxim, "Tree faciunt
collegium" (Three make a college), and
hence, perhaps, the Masonic rule that not
fewer than three Master Masons can form a
Lodge .
Collocatio . 	The Greek custom of ex-
posing the corpse on a bier over night,


COLOGNE
near the threshold, that all might be con-
vinced of the normal death .
Cologne, Cathedral of . The city of
Cologne, on the banks of the Rhine, is memo-
rable in the history of Freemasonry for the
connection of its celebrated Cathedral with the
labors of the Steinmetzen of Germany, whence
it became the seat of one of the most impor-
tant Lodges of that period . It has been as-
serted that Albertus Magnus designed the
plan, and that he there also altered the Con-
stitution of the Fraternity, and gave it a new
code of laws . It is at least clear that in this
Cathedral the symbolic principles of Gothic
architecture, the distinguishing style of the
Traveling Freemasons, were carried out in
deeper significance than in any other building
of the time . Whether the document known as
the Charter of Cologne be authentic or not, and
it is fairly well established that it is not, the
fact that it is claimed to have emanated from
the Lodge of that place, gives to the Cathe-
dral an importance in the views of the Ma-
sonic student .
The Cathedral of Cologne is one of the most
beautiful religious edifices in the world, and
the vastest construction of Gothic architec-
ture . 	The primitive Cathedral, which was
consecrated in 873, was burned in 1248 . The
present one was commenced in 1249, and the
work upon it continued until 1509 . But dur-
ing that long period the labors were often in-
terrupted by the sanguinary contests which
raged between the city and its archbishops, so
that only the choir and the chapels which sur-
rounded it were finished . In the eighteenth
century it suffered much from the ignorance
of its own canons, who subjected it to un-
worthy mutilations, and during the French
Revolution it was used as a military depot .
In 1820, this edifice, ravaged by men and mu-
tilated by time, began to excite serious anxi-
eties for the solidity of its finished portions .
The debris of the venerable pile were even
about to be overthrown, when archeologic
zeal and religious devotion came to the res-
cue . Societies were formed for its restoration
by the aid of permanent subscriptions, which
were liberally supplied ; and it was resolved to
finish the gigantic structure according to the
original plans which had been conceived by
Gerhard de Saint Trond, the ancient master
of the works . The works were renewed under
the direction of M . Zwiner . The building is
now completed ; Mr . Seddon says (Ramb . on
the Rhine, p . 16), "It is without question, one
of the most stupendous structures ever con-
ceived ."
There is a story, that may be only a tra-
dition, that there was a book written by
Albertus Magnus called Liber Constructionum
Alberti, which contained the secrets of the
Operative Masons, and particularly giving
directions of how to lay the foundations of
cathedrals .
Even though these builders had a special
treatise on laying the foundations of cathe-
drals, they had not made provision for inven-
tions which carte later . It has been shown
COLOGNE 	159
that lately the foundations of the Cathedral
were being loosened by the constant shaking
from the railway trains that now run near, so
that they became unsafe and seriously threat ..
ened the destruction of this wonderful master .
piece of Gothic architecture . The German
Government came to the relief and saved the
structure . 	[E . E . C .]
Cologne, Charter of . 	This is an interest-
ing Masonic document, originally written in
Latin, and purporting to have been issued in
1535 . Its history, as given by those who first
offered it to the public, and who claim that it
is authentic, is as follows : From the year
1519 to 1601, there existed in the city of Am-
sterdam, in Holland, a Lodge whose name was
Het Vredendall, or The Valley of Peace . In
the latter year, circumstances caused the
Lodge to be closed, but in 1637 it was revived,
by four of its surviving members, under the
name of Frederick's Vredendall, or Frederick's
Valley of Peace . In this Lodge, at the time of
its restoration, there was found a chest, bound
with brass and secured by three locks and
three seals, which, according to a protocol
published on the 29th of January, 1637, con-
tained the following documents :
1 . The original warrant of constitution of
the Lodge Het Vredendall, written in the
English language . 2 . A roll of all the mem-
bers of the Lodge from 1519 to 1601 . 3 . The
original charter given to the Brotherhood at
the city of Cologne, and which is now known
among Masonic historians as the Charter of
Cologne .
It is not known how long these documents
remained in possession of the Lodge at Am-
sterdam . 	But they were subsequently re-
mitted to the charge of Bro . James Van
Vasner, Lord of Opdem, whose signature is
appended to the last attestation of The Hague
register, under the date of the 2d of February,
16 y38 . After his death, they remained among
the papers of his family until 1790, when M .
Walpenaer, one of his descendants, presented
them to Bro . Van Boetzelaer, who was then
the Grand Master of the Lodges of Hol-
land . Subsequently they fell into the hands
of some person whose name is unknown, but
who, in 1816, delivered them to Prince Fred-
erick .
There is a story that the Prince received
these documents accompanied by a letter,
written in a female hand, and signed "C .,
child of V . J ." In this letter the writer states
that she had found the documents among the
papers of her father, who had received them
from Mr . Van Boetzelaer . It is suspected that
the authoress of the letter was the daughter
of Bro . Van Jeylinger, who was the suc-
cessor of Van Boetzelaer as Grand Master of
Holland .
There is another version of the history
which states that these documents had long
been in the possession of the family of Was-
senaer Van Opdem, by a member of which
they were presented to Van Boetzelaer, who
subsequently gave them to Van Jeylinger,
with strict injunctions to preserve them until

160 	COLOGNE
the restitution of the Orange regency . The
originals are now, or were very lately, de-
posited in the archives of a Lodge at Namur,
on the Meuse ; but copies of the charter were
given to the Fraternity under the following
circumstances :
In the year 1819, Prince Frederick of Nas-
sau, who was then the Grand Master of the
National Grand Lodge of Holland, contem-
plating a reformation in Masonry, addressed
a circular on this subject to all the Lodges
under his jurisdiction, for the purpose of en-
listing them in behalf of his project, and ac-
companied this circular with copies of the
charter which he had caused to be taken in
facsimile, and also of the register of the Am-
sterdam Lodge, Valley of Peace, to which I
have already referred as contained in the
brass-mounted chest . 	A transcript of the
charter in the original Latin, with all its errors,
was published, in 1818, in the Annales Magon-
niques . The document was also presented to
the public in a German version, in 1819, by
Dr . Fred . Heldmann ; but his translation has
been proved, by Lenning and others, to be ex-
ceedingly incorrect . In 1821, Dr . Krause pub-
lished it in his celebrated work entitled The
Three Oldest Masonic Documents . It has been
frequently published since in a German trans-
lation, in whole or in part, but is accessible to
the English reader only in Burnes' Sketch of
the History of the Knights Templars (London,
1840) ; in the English translation of Findel's
History of Freemasonry, and in the American
Quarterly Review of Freemasonry, where it was
published with copious notes by the author of
the present work . P . J . Schouten, a Dutch
writer on the history of Freemasonry, who had
undoubtedly seen the original document, de-
scribes it as being written on parchment in
Masonic cipher, in the Latin language, the
characters uninjured by time, and the sub-
scription of the names not in cipher, but in the
ordinary cursive character . The Latin is that
of the Middle Ages, and is distinguished by
many incorrectly spelled words, and frequent
grammatical solecisms . Thus, we find "bagis-
tri" for "magistri," "trigesimo" for "trices-
imo," "ad nostris ordinem" for "ad nostrum
ordinem," etc .
Of the authenticity of this document, it is
but fair to say that there are well-founded
doubts among many Masonic writers . The
learned antiquaries of the University of Le -
den have testified that the paper on which the
register of the Lodge at The Hague is written,
is of the same kind that was used in Holland at
the commencement of the seventeenth century,
which purports to be its date, and that the
characters in which it is composed are of the
same period . This register, it will be remem-
bered, refers to the Charter of Cologne as
existing at that time ; so that if the learned
men of Leyden have not been deceived, the
fraud--supposing that there is one in the
charter-must be more than two centuries old .
Dr . Burnes professes to have no faith in the
document, and the editors of the Hermes at
once declare it to be surreptitious . But the
COLORADO
condemnation of Burnes is too sweeping in its
character, as it includes with the charter all
other German documents on Freemasonry ;
and the opinion of the editors of the Hermes
must be taken with some grains of allowance,
as they were at the time engaged in a contro-
versy with the Grand Master of Holland, and
in the defense of the high degrees, whose
claims to antiquity this charter would materi-
ally impair . Dr . Oliver, on the other hand,
quotes it unreservedly, in his Landmarks, as
an historical document worthy of credit ; and
Reghellini treats it as authentic . In Germany,
the Masonic authorities of the highest reputa-
tion, such as Heldermann, Morsdorf, Moss,
and many others, have repudiated it as a
spurious production, most probably of the
beginning of the present century . 	oss ob-
jects to the document, that customs are re-
ferred to in it that were not known in the rit-
uals of initiation until 1731 ; that the higher
degrees were nowhere known until 1725 ; that
none of the eighteen copied documents have
been found ; that the declaimer against Tem-
plar Masonry was unnecessary in 1535, as no
Templar degrees existed until 1741 ; that some
of the Latin expressions are not such as were
likely to have been used ; and a few other ob-
jections of a similar character . Bobrik, who
published, in 1840, the Text, Translation, and
Examination of the Cologne Document, also
advances some strong critical arguments
against its authenticity . On the whole, the
arguments to disprove the genuineness of the
charter appear to be very convincing, and are
strong enough to throw at least great doubt
upon it as being anything else but a modern
forgery. [See Gould's History of Freemasonry
(i ., 496), where the question of the authentic-
ity of the document is examined, and it is
classed among Apocryphal Manuscripts .-
E . L . H .]
Cologne, Congress of . 	A Congress which
is said to have been convened in 1525, by the
most distinguished Masons of the time, in
the city of Cologne, as the representatives of
nineteen Grand Lodges, who are said to have
issued the celebrated manifesto, in defense of
the character and aims of the Institution,
known as the Charter of Cologne . Whether
this Congress was ever held is a moot point
among Masonic writers, most of them con-
tending that it never was, and that it is simply
an invention of the early part of the present
century . 	(See Cologne, Charter of .)
Colonial Lodges . 	Lodges in the colonies
of Great Britain are under the immediate
supervision and jurisdiction of District Grand
Lodges, to which title the reader is referred .
Colorado . 	Freemasonry was introduced
into the territory of Colorado in 1860, in which
year the Grand Lodge of Kansas chartered
Golden City Lodge at Golden City . In 1861
two other Lodges, Rocky Mountain at Gold
Hill and Summit Lodge at Parkville, were
chartered by the Grand Lodge of Nebraska .
On August 2, 1861, representatives from these
three Lodges met in convention at Golden
City, and organized the Grand Lodge of Col-

COLORED
orado, the Grand East of which was placed at
Denver . J. M . Chivington was elected first
Grand Master . 	Chapters of Royal Arch
Masons and a Commandery of Knights Tem-
plar were subsequently introduced .
Colored Fraternities . 	The secret soci-
eties of negroes claiming to be Masonic are
quite extensive, embracing Grand Lodges in
practically every State . (See Negro Masonry .)
Colors, Symbolism of . 	Wemyss, in his
Clavis Symbolica, says : "Color, which is out-
wardly seen on the habit of the body, is sym-
bolically used to denote the true state of the
person or subject to which it is applied, ac-
cording to its nature ." This definition may
appropriately be borrowed on the present oc-
casion, and applied to the system of Masonic
colors . The color of a vestment or of a decora-
tion is never arbitrarily adopted in Freema-
sonry . 	Every color is selected with a view to
its power in the symbolic alphabet, and it
teaches the initiate some instructive moral
lesson, or refers to some important historical
fact in the .system .
Frederic Portal, a French archeologist, has
written a valuable treatise on the symbolism
of colors, under the title of Des Couleurs Sym-
boliques dans l'antiquite, le moyen dge et les
temps modernes, which is well worth the at-
tention of Masonic students . 	The Masonic
colors are seven in number, namely : 1, blue ;
2, purple ; 3 red ; 4, white ; 5, black ; 6,
green ; 7, yellow ; 8, violet . 	(See those re-
spective titles .)
Columbia, 	District 	of . 	The 	Grand
Lodge of the District of Columbia was organ-
ized December 11, 1810, by Lodges having
warrants from Maryland and Virginia, and
Valentine Reintzel was elected Grand Master .
It has 27 Lodges under it . 	The Grand
Chapter formed, originally, a component
part of the Grand Chapter of Maryland and
the District of Columbia ; but the connection
was dissevered in 1867, and an independ-
ent Grand Chapter formed, which has now
five Chapters under its jurisdiction . There is
neither a Grand Commandery nor Grand
Council in the Territory, but several Com-
manderies subordinate to the Grand Encamp-
ment of the United States and a Council of
Royal and Select Masters chartered by the
Grand Council of Massachusetts . The Scot-
tish Rite has also been successfully culti-
vated, and there are in operation a Lodge of
Perfection and a Chapter of Rose Croix .
Column . 	Around ~pillar made to suppor-
as well as to adorn a building, whose construc-
tion varies in the different orders of architect
ture . In Masonry, columns have a symbolic
signification as the supports of a Lodge, and
are known as the Columns 	of Wisdom,
Strength, and Beauty. The broken column is
also a symbol in Masonry . 	(See the titles
Supports of the Lodge and Broken Column .)
Comacine Masters . 	It has long been a
theory of some writers, secular and Masonic,
that there was a direct succession of the oper-
ative gilds from the Roman Colleges to those
who merged into Speculative Masonry in
COMACINE 	161
1717, and as investigation proceeded, the
proofs became stronger and stronger until
now it can no longer reasonably be doubted .
At first it was not attempted to prove the
succession it was only inferred, but recently
more careful investigators have come to view,
whose results go far in establishing the direct
succession from Roman Colleges to Specula-
tive Masonry .
The principal purpose of this article is to
put a link in the chain of operative gilds and
establish a continuous connection from the
oldest gild formation (Roman Colleges which
see) through the Lombard period and lztenais-
sance to the formation of Speculative Masonry
by the English gilds .
Before beginning the description of the
Comacine Masters, which, from the contro-
versial character of the subject, must of ne-
cessity be kindred to a discussion resting heav-
ily on citations and quoted authorities who
have worked in this special field, it will be
necessary to draw a fair picture of the Roman
possessions and civilization at this period .
When Rome had passed the zenith of her
power and had begun to decline from internal
and external causes, it is but natural to sup-
pose that her neighboring enemies noticed
this, and as they had long looked upon Italy
with avaricious eyes, felt the time had arrived
for them to attain what they had most de-
sired . The year 476 A .D ., when the last of
the nominal Cmsars ceased to rule in the
West, is usually taken by historians as mark-
ing the fall of the Roman Empire . However
true that may be, the falling began when Con-
stantine established the seat of his empire
at Constantinople, in 327 and drew much
strength from Rome, thereby making it easier
for the Vandals and Goths to renew their at-
tacks . 	For five centuries horde after horde
of barbarians flung themselves against the
Roman frontiers, each striking deeper than
the last, and being repelled with greater and
greater difficulty, the Empire sinking be-
neath internal decay more than from her ex-
ternal enemies .
When the Western Empire ceased in the
fifth century and Europe was plunged into
what has been called "The Dark Ages" and
all progress in letters and the arts of peace is
supposed to have ceased, it is refreshing to
quote what John Fiske said in Old and New
Ways of Treating History, when speaking of
that period : "In truth the dull ages which no
Homer has sung or Tacitus described, have
sometimes been critical ages for human
progress . . This restriction of the views to
literary ages has had much to do with the pop-
ular misconception of the 1,000 years that
elapsed between the reign of Theodoric the
Great and the Discovery of America . For
many reasons that period might be called the
Middle Ages ; but the popular mind is apt to
lump these ten centuries together, as if they
were all alike, and apply to them the mislead-
ing epithet `Dark Ages .' 	A portion of the
darkness is in the minds of those who use
the epithet ."

162 	COMACINE
I, also, wish to take exception to theirpo si-
tion and conclusions, for in the success of my
exceptions lies the potency and possibility of
my subject, the Comacine Masters, who lived
and built at this period, having descended
from branches of the Roman Colleges of Ar-
tificers who had come to Como as colonists or
had fled to this free republic for safety during
barbaric invasions, creating and developing
what is called Lombard architecture, and
forming a powerful gild which later not only
influenced, but had a connection with the
gilds of France and Germany at the Re-'
naissance, thereby establishing a direct line of
descent of Rbman Colleges to the operative
gilds that grew into Speculative Masonry .
It can be understood bow a tribe or a small
section of people may, from various causes,
recede in letters, science and civilization, but
how the world could do so is difficult to com-
prehend, yet the historians and literature
attempted to confirm this in describing the
"gloom when the sun of progress was in a
total or partial eclipse from the fifth to the
twelfth centuries," or, between the period of
ancient Classic Art of Rome and that early
rise of Art in the twelfth century, which led
to the Renaissance . Leder Scott says that
"this hiatus is supposed to be a time when Art
was utterly dead and buried, its corpse in By-
zantine dress lying embalmed in its tomb at
Ravenna . 	But all death is nothing but the
germ of new life . Art was not a corpse ; it
was only a seed laid in Italian soil to germi-
nate and it bore several plants before the great
reflowering period of the Renaissance ."
Those who produced these several plants
which it bore before the great Cathedral
Building period that followed the Renais-
sance, will furnish the subject of this article,
and trust it will be as interesting and im-
portant to the Masonic student as it is new in
the literature of Masonry .
Most things will I trust, become more and
more clear as we follow up the traces of the
Comacine Gild from the chrysalis state, in
which Roman Art hibernated during the dark
winter of the usually called Dark Ages, as
Scott says "through the grub state of the
Lombard period to the glorious winged flight
of the full Gothic of the Renaissance ."
Many historians, Masonic and profane, who
wrote as long as a generation ago, are inclined
to give the impression that there was but little
or nothing that transpired during the so-called
Dark Ages which was essential to the world's
progress at the time, or worthy of contempla-
tion at present . Had their views of the im-
portance of historical matter prevailed, we
would now know very little of what transpired
from the Fall of the Western part of the
Roman Empire to the Renaissance . We know
that many cities in Italy were rebuilt after
they had been sacked and partly destroyed
by the Goths and Huns . Many cathedrals
were built during this period, some of which
work lasts till to-day, and is worthy work-
manship . 	The historical architects have ap-
proached this period from another angle and
COMACINE
the results of their efforts now make this ar-
ticle possible and open up a new and im-
portant field for Masonic students .
Toward the end of the fifth century a new
wave of barbaric invasions swept over the
West . North and East Gaul-all not pre-
viously held by the Visigoths-fell into the
hands of the Franks (486) . Theodoric and the
Ostrogoths wrested Italy from Odoacer and
established the Ostrogothic Kingdom in Italy,
with its capital at Ravenna . This kingdom
was established and governed on exceptionally
enlightened lines . Theodoric, often called TJie
Great, was the most broad-minded and ad-
vanced of all the German conquerors . He was
a man of culture, yet some have said that he
could not read . He had been educated from
his eighth to his eighteenth year at Constan-
tinople . His rule was, therefore, more like
the revival of Roman ideas than a barbarous
conquest . Accordingly we need not be sur-
prised to find him decorating his capital city,
Havenna, during the period of his occupation,
(493-526) with a series of monuments which,
although strongly tinctured with Byzantine
influence, yet constitute, perhaps, the finest
examples we possess of the early Christian
style . Theodoric was an Aryan and opposed
to the Bishop of Rome . This fact and his
education at Constantinople are sufficient to
explain the strong Byzantine elements so
noticeable even in those monuments at Raven-
na, which antedate the Byzantine conquest .
Charles A . Cummings in his History of Archi-
tecture in Italy says : "One of the earliest acts
of Theodoric after his accession to the throne
was the appointment of an architect to have
charge of all the public buildings-including
the aqueducts and the city walls-of Ravenna
and Rome putting at his disposal for this pur-
pose, yearly, twelve hundred pounds of gold
two hundred and fifty thousand bricks, and
the income of the Lucrine Haven . A remark-
able letter from Theodoric to this official on
his appointment is preserved by Cassiodorus,
who was the minister of the Empire . `These
excellent buildings,' he says, `are my delight .
They are the noble image of the power of the
Empire, and bear witness to its grandeur and
glory . The palace of the sovereign is shown
to ambassadors as a monument worthy of
their admiration, and seems to declare to them
his greatness. It is then a great pleasure for
an enlightened prince to inhabit a palace
where all the perfections of art are united, and
to find there relaxation from the burden of
public affairs . . I give you notice that our
intelligence and talents have determine me
to confide to your hands the care of my palace .
It is my wish that you preserve in its original
splendor all which is ancient, and that what-
ever you add to it may be conformable to it in
style . It is not a work of small importance
which I place in your hands, since it will be
your duty to fulfill by your art the lively de-
sire which I feel to illustrate my reign by
many new edifices ; so that whether the mat-
ter in hand be the rebuilding of a city, the
construction of new castles, or the building of

COMACINE
a Pretorium : it will be for you to translate
my projects into accomplished realities . 	And
this is a service highly honorable and worthy
of any man's ambition :-to leave to future ages
the monuments which shall be the admiration
of new generations of men . 	It will be your
duty to direct the mason, the sculptor, the
painter, the worker in stone, in bronze, in
plaster, in mosaic . What they know not, you
will teach them . The difficulties which they
find in their work, you will solve for them . But
behold what various knowledge you must pos-
sess, thus to instruct artificers of so many
sorts . 	But if you can direct their work to a
good and satisfactory end, their success will be
your eulogy, and will form the most abundant
and flattering reward you could desire ."'
From this it may be seen that an architect of
those days was a complete Master of the art
of building . 	He was required to be able to
construct a building from foundation to roof
and also to be able to decorate it with sculp-
ture and painting, mosaics and bronzes . This
broad education prevailed in all the schools
or Lodges up to 1335, when the painters se-
ceded, which was followed by other branches
separating themselves into distinct gilds .
It is a well-known fact that when the bar-
barians were sacking and carrying away the
riches of many Italian cities and particularly
of Rome, people fled to more secure places for
the better protection of their lives and prop-
erty . 	Of the various places to which they
fled onl one interests us in this article . Como
was a tree republic and many fled there for
the protection it afforded . Rome had previ-
ously colonized many thousands in Como be-
fore the Christian Era . 	(See Como .)
The first we hear of the Comacines was
that they were living on an island called Isola
Comacina in Lake Como, that most beautiful
of lakes . 	They were so well fortified that it
was years before the island was captured and
then only by treachery . Their fortifications
and buildings were similar to those built by
the Colleges of Artificers at Rome, which gave
rise to the belief that they were the direct
descendants from these Roman builders, who
had built for the Roman Empire for several
centuries .
In offering the form of building as best evi-
dence of the descent of the Comacines from the
Roman Colleges, it is appreciated how re-
corded literature, which is usually the word
and opinions of one person, can be biased,
changed and often wrong . But all who have
studied a people in their social, political or re-
ligious aspects, know how permanent these
things are and how subject to slow changes .
Their forms of dress, songs, folk-lore and lan-
guage undergo changes but slowly, climate,
unsuccessful wars and amalgamation proving
the most disastrous . 	But probably none of
these change so slowly as forms of building,
unless the latter be subjected to a marked
change of climate from migration . Architec-
ture is one of the noblest and most useful of
arts and one of the first to attract the atten-
tion of barbarous people when evoluting into
COMACINE 	168
a higher civilization, and is at all times an as
curate measure of a people's standing in civil-
ization .
A law we learn from biology in the morphol-
ogy of animals is that nature never makes a
new organ when she can modify an old one so
as to perform the required functions . 	New
styles of architecture do not spring from
human intellect as "creations ." Cattaneo
says : "Monuments left by a people are truer
than documents, which often prove fallacious
and mislead and prove no profit for those who
blindly follow them . 	The story of a people
or a nation, if not known by writings might
be guessed through its monuments and works
of art."
The Lombards who had come from north-
ern Germany and settled in northern Italy in
568, at once began to develop along many
lines which made Lombardy known all over
Europe-the result of which influence Europe
feels to-day . 	They developed along lines
which in our every-day parlance may be called
business . 	They were not primarily archi-
tects or builders and they employed the Coma-
cines for this kind of work and it was the Co-
macines who developed what is known to-day
as Lombard architecture, covering a period
that we may roughly put as from the seventh
century to the Renaissance .
The first to draw attention to the name
Magistri Comacini was the erudite Muratori,
that searcher out of ancient manuscripts, who
unearthed from the archives an edict, dated
November 22, 643, signed by Rotharis, in
which are included two clauses treating of the
Magistri Comacini and their colleagues . 	The
two clauses, Nos . 143 and 144, out of the 388
inscribed in cribbed Latin, says Leder Scott,
are, when anglicized, to the following intent :
`Art . 143 . Of the Magister Comacinus . If
the Comacine Master with his colleagues shall
have contracted to restore or build a house of
any person whatsoever, the contract for pay-
ment being made, and it chances that someone
shall die by the fall of the said house, or any
material or stone from it the owner of said
house shall not be cited by the Master Co-
macinus or his brethren to compensate them
for homicide or injury ; because having for
their own gain contracted for the payment of
the building, they just sustain the risk and
injuries thereof .
"Art . 144 . 	Of the engaging and hiring of
Magistri . 	If any person has engaged or hired
one or more of the Comacine Masters to de-
sign a work, or to daily assist his workmen in
building a palace or a house, and it shall hap-
pen by reason of the house some Comacine
shall be killed, the owner of the house is not
considered responsible ; but if a pole or stone
shall injure some extraneous person, the Mas-
ter builder shall not bear the blame, but the
person who hired him shall make compensa-
tion ."
Charles A . Cummings says : "The code of
Luitprand, eighty years later, contains fur-
ther provisions regulating the practice of Co-
macim, which had now become much more

164 	COMACINE
numerous and important . Fixed rates of pay-
ment were established for their services, vary-
ing according to the kind of building on which
they were engaged • definite prices being al-
lowed for walls of various thicknessea, for
arches and vaults, for chimney a, plastering
and joiners' work . The difficulty which these
early builders found in the construction of
vaults is indicated by the allowance of a charge
per superficial foot, from fifteen to eighteen
times as great as in the case of a wall . The
price of provisions and wine furnished to the
workmen is also determined and is counted as
part of their pay ."
Scott maintains that "these laws prove that
in the seventh century the Magistri Coma-
cini were a compact and powerful gild capa-
ble of asserting their rights, and that the gild
was properly organized, having degrees of dif-
ferent ranks ; that the higher orders were en-
titled Magistri, and could `design' or 'under-
take' a work ; 1 . e ., act as architects ; and that
the colligantes or colleagues worked under, or
with, them . In fact, a powerful organization
altogether -- so powerful and so solid that it
spoke of a very ancient foundation . Was it a
surviving branch of a Roman Collegium? Or
a decadent group of Byzantine artists stranded
in Italy?"
Professor Merzario says : "In this darkness
which extended all over Italy, only one small
lamp remained alight, making a bright spark
in the vast Italian metropolis . It was from the
Magistri Comacini . Their respective names
are unknown, their individual work unspe-
cialized, but the breath of their spirit might
be felt all through those centuries and their
names collectively is legion . We may safely
say that of all the works of art between A .D .
800 and 1000, the greater and better part are
due to that brotherhood-always faithful and
often secret-of the Magistri Comacini . The
authority and judgment of learned men jus-
tify the assertion ."
Quaternal de Quincy, in his Dictionary of
Architecture, under the headinomacines,
remarks that "to these men W10 , were both
designers and executors, architects sculptors
and mosaicists, may be attributed the Re-
naissance of art and its propagation in the
southern countries, where it marched with
Christianity . Certain it is that we owe to
them that the heritage of antique ages was not
entirely lost, and it is only by their tradition
and imitation that the art of building was kept
alive, producing works which we still admire
and which become surprising when we think
of the utter ignorance of all science in those
Dark Ages ."
Hope, in his well-balanced style, draws
quite a picture of the gilds at this period
which upon the whole, is fairly accurate . He
says : 1 'When Rome, the Eternal City, was first
abandoned for Milan, Ravenna and other
cities in the more fertile North, which became
seats of new courts and the capitals of new
kingdoms, we find in northern Italy a rude
and barbarous nation-The Lombards-in the
space of two short centuries, producing in
COMACINE
trade, in legislation, in finance, in industry of
every description, new developments so great,
that from them, and from the regions to which
they attach their names, has issued the whole
of that ingenious and complex system of bills
of exchange, banks, insurance, double-entry
bookkeeping, commercial and marine laws
and public loans, since adopted all over Eu-
rope-all over Europe retaining, in their pe-
culiar appellations the trace and landmarks
of their origin-and all over Europe affording
to capital and commerce an ease of captivity
and a security unknown before .
"To keep pace with this progress, kings,
lesser lords and the municipalities that by
degrees arose, were induced, at one time from
motives of public policy, at others, of private
advantage, to encourage artificers of different
professions . Thus of their own accord, they
granted licenses to form associations possessed
of the exclusive privilege of exercising their
petmliar trades, and making them an object of
profit ; of requiring that youths anxious to be
associated with their body, and ultimately to
be endowed with the mastery of the profes-
sion, should submit to a fixed and often severe
course of study, under the name of appren-
ticeship, for their master's profit, and in addi-
tion should frequently be compelled to pay a
considerable premium ; and of preventing any
individual not thus admitted into their body,
from establishing a competition against them .
These associations were called Corporations
or Gilds .
"These bodies in order to enjoy exclusive ex-
ercise of their profession, and that its profits
should be secure to them, not only by law, but
by the inability of others to violate it, by de-
grees made their business, or craft, as they
called it, a profound mystery from the world
at large and only suffered their own appren-
tices to be initiated in its higher branches and
improvements, most gradually ; and in every
place where a variety of paths of industry and
art were struck out, these crafts, these corpo-
rations, these masterships and these mysteries
became so universally prevalent, that not only
the arts of a wholly mechanical nature, but
even those of the most exalted and intellectual
nature-those which in ancient times had been
considered the exclusive privilege . of freemen
and citizens, and those dignified with the name
liberal-were submitted to all those narrow
rules of corporations and connected with all
the servile offices of apprenticeship ." While
Hope and writers of his time recognized that
some well-organized body of workers had
dominated the building trades at the Lombard
period of history, they never attempted to
trace their genealogy . Later historical critics
of architecture have given some attention to
origin and succession of these building crafts .
One of the latest Italian students, Rivoiri, has
devoted a separate chapter to the Comacine
Masters . As his extensive work on Lombard
Architecture Its Origin, Development andDeriv-
atives may be accessile to 	ew, I shall
give a generous quotation from him for the
importance of his sound conclusions : "The

COMACINE
origin of the Comacine Masters in the diocese
of Como is explained quite naturally, accord-
ing to De Dartein, Merzario, and others, by
the custom, which has always existed among
the craftsmen and workmen of that region, of
leaving their native places in order to betake
themselves in gangs wherever building works
are about to be or have been begun, urged
thereto by their barren mountain soil, pecuni-
ary gain, their innate ability and enterprising
character . Another explanation is to be found
in the presence on the shores of the lakes of
Como, Lugano and the Maggiore of numerous
atones, marble and timber yards which fur-
nished building material for the cities of the
plains . These yards gave scope for the prac-
tice of the crafts of carver, carpenter, builder,
etc . ; and these, in their turn, by constant
practice and continuous progress, ultimately
developed architects and sculptors .
" And here we may naturally feel surprise at
the appearance, amid the darkness of the early
centuries of the Middle Ages, of a corporation
of craftsmen who, though of Roman origin,
none the less enjoyed Lombard citizenship
and the rights belonging to it ; while the
Roman or Italian subjects of Lombard rule
were, if not slaves, nothing better than 'aldi,'
that is to say, midway between freedmen and
serfs, manumitted on the condition of perform-
ing the manual tasks assigned them by the
manumittor . A corporation, too, which had a
legal monopoly of public and private building
work within the territories occupied by the
Lombards, as the code of Rotharis proves, and
can claim the honor of filling up the ga which
for so long was believed, especially by non-
Italian writers, to exist between the incorpo-
rated artisans of the Roman epoch, su posed
to have vanished with the fall of the Empire,
and the gilds of craftsmen which sprang up so
luxuriantly in the XIIIth and XIVth centuries .
Such surprise, however, may easily be al-
layed if we consider that in reality the fra-
ternity of craftsmen, in Italy at least, by no
means came to an end with the Barbarian in-
vasions, and particularly that of the Lom-
bards, who actually preserved those Roman
institutions which best fulfilled their aim of
keeping the conquered people in subjection .
Accordingly, they would have maintained the
corporation of artisans in order to make the
exaction of tribute easier and at the same time
to be able to keep a hold over the individuals
composing them .
" Hence we have good grounds for inferring
that the corporation of 'Comacini,' who a
parently were neither more nor less than the
successors of the Master Masons who in the
days of the Empire had directed the opera-
tions of the collegia specially devoted to build-
ing, survived the barbarian invasions which
were so disastrous to Italy in the centuries
preceding the accession of Rotharis to the
Lombard throne . This view is confirmed by
the undoubted fact that from this time on-
wards the `Comacini' formed a very impor-
tant gild, as is shown by the need which he
felt of making regulations for it in his laws .
COMACINE 	1 6 5
This gild cannot have sprung into existence
full grown and, as it were, by magic, just
when the (5ode of Rotharis made its appear-
ance in 643 . It must have already been in
existence and have attained some degree of
importance well before Alboin's descent on
Italy (568) . Troya, in fact, remarks that when
the Lombards of the time of Autharis (583-
590) and of Agilulf and Theodelinda (590-
625) wanted to erect buildings, they must
have made use of it • and that everything leads
one to think that before the promulgation of
the Code of Rotharis, some of the members
(i .e . those of the highest capacity and repu-
tation) had already been enfranchised by
'impans' or express grace of the King . How-
ever that may be, the mention of the associa-
tions of Comacini in the reign of Rotharis and
Luitprand is one of the earliest in the Barba-
rian world, and earlier than that of any gild
of architects or builders belonging to the Mid-
dle Ages . . . . Whatever may have been the
organization of the Comacme or Lombard
gilds, and however these may have been af-
fected by outward events, they did not cease
to exist in consequence of the fall of the Lombard
kingdom . 	With the first breath of municipal
freedom, and with the rise of the new brother-
hoods of artisans, they, too, perhaps, may
have reformed themselves like the latter, who
were nothing but the continuation of the
'collegium' of Roman times preserving, its
existence through the barbarian ages and
transformed little by little into the medi-
aeval corporation . The members may have
found themselves constrained to enter into
a more perfect unity of thought and senti-
ment, to bind themselves into a more compact
body, and thus put themselves in a condition
to maintain their ancient supremacy in
carrying out the most important building
works in Italy . But we cannot say anything
more . And even putting aside all tradition,
the monuments themselves are there to
confirm what we have said .
"Finally, toward the end of the Xlth cen-
tury, the Comacine brotherhoods began to
relax their bonds of union, to make room
gradually for personality, and for artistic
and scientific individuality, till at length
they vanish at the close of the XVth century,
with the disappearance of the Lombardic
style which they had created, and the rise
of the architecture of the Renaissance ."
Leder Scott has reasonably inferred : "1 .
That the architects of the same gild worked
at Rome and in Ravenna in the early cen-
turies after Christ . 2 . That though the
architects were Roman, the decorations up
to the fourth century were chiefly Byzantine,
or had imbibed that style, as their paintings
show . 3 . That in the time when Rome lay
in a heap of ruins under the barbarians the
Collegium, or a Collegium, I know not which,
fled to independent Como and there in after
centuries they were employed by the Lom-
bards, and ended in again becoming a power-
ful gild ."
There was the greatest similarity in form

1 6 6 	COMACINE
of the cathedrals of this period and when
charges were introduced they became general,
thereby creating a unity of purpose and an
interchange of ideas which spoke the exist-
ence of some kind of gild or fraternity with
a perfected organization . That the Coma-
cines received ideas which somewhat in-
fluenced their building art is probably true,
particularly their decorations . 	On the lat-
ter question Miiller in his Archceology der
Kunst says : "From Constantinople as a
center of mechanical skill, a knowledge of art
radiated to distant countries, and corpora-
tions of builders of Grecian birth were per-
mitted to exercise a judicial government
among themselves) according to the laws of
the country to which they owed allegiance ."
This was the age when more symbolism
was made use of than at any other period,
the reason being that the Christian religion
having so lately supplanted Paganism, and
as most converts could not read, the Bible
was spread over the front of the cathedrals in
the form of sculptured saints, animals and
symbolic 	figures . 	Hope 	says : 	"Pictures
can always be read by all people and when
symbolic uses are made and once explained
will be ever after understood ."
The Eastern branch of the Church at
Constantinople prohibited imagery and other
forms of adornment of their churches, and
like disputants, when one denies, the other
affirms, the Western branch of Rome es-
poused the carving of images and beautiful
sculpture . This caused the Eastern sculp-
tors to come to Italy, where they were wel-
comed by the Roman branch of the Church .
That policy of the Roman branch was car-
ried throughout the cathedral building period
that followed in Europe for several centuries
and to this day is a dominant element with
them, for they still believe that to properly
ep read their religion, noble architecture,
fine sculpturing and painting, and inspiring
music are prime requisites . We Speculative
Masons should give full credit to the Roman
Catholic Church for employing and foster-
ing our Operative Brethren through many
centuries and making possible Speculative
Freemasonry of to-day, even though the
Church is now our avowed enemy .
Combining some arguments that have been
reasonably put forward for the maintenance
of this theory, and adding others, it may
be pointed out that the identical form of
Lodges in different cities is a strong argu-
ment that the same ruling body governed
them all . An argument equally strong is
the ubiquity of the members . We find the
same men employed in one Lodge after an-
other, as work required . Not only were
these changes or migrations from one cathe-
dral to another accomplished in Italy, but
we have many examples of Masters and
special workmen going into France, Ger-
many and other countries . Unfortunately, no
documents exist of the early Lombard times,
but the archives of the Opera which in most
cities have been faithfully kept since the
COMACINE
thirteenth century, would, if thoroughly
examined, prove to be valuable stores from
which to draw a history of the Masonic
Gild . 	They have only begun to examine
carefully these records, and when completed
we may reasonably expect to learn much
concerning this period . Leder Scott has
examined several and gives continuous lists
of Masters of the School or Lodge in dif-
ferent cities . In Sienese School, a list of
sixty-seven Masters in continuous succes-
sion from 1259 to 1423 ; at Florence Lodge,
seventy-eight Masters from 1258 to 1418 ;
at Milan Lodge, seventy-nine Masters from
1387 to 1647 . She (for Leder Scott was a
woman, whose real name was Mrs . Lucy
Baxter) gives headings of laws for these
Lodges, and it may be interesting to glance
over the headings of statutes of these Masonic
Gilds, which will throw light on all the
organizations . The Sienese Gild is a typical
one and will serve our purpose . There
are forty-one chapters, but the headings of
only twelve will be selected :
C .1 . One who curses God or the Saints .
A fine of 25 lira .
C .2 . One who opposes the Signora of city .
A fine of 25 lira .
C .5 . How to treat underlings (sottoposti or
apprentices) .
C .11 . That no one take work from another
Master .
C .13 . How the feast of the Four Holy Mar-
tyrs is to be kept . Feast of the Dead,
November . Two half-pound candles and
offering ; grand fete of the Gild in June .
C .16 . The camerlingo shall hand all receipts
to Grand Master .
C .19 . One who is sworn to another Gild
cannot be either Grand Master or camer-
lingo .
C .22 . How members are to be buried .
C .23 . How to insure against risks .
C .24 . No argument or business discussion to
be held in public streets .
C .30 . That no Master shall undertake a
second work till the first has been paid .
C .34 . On those who lie against others .
These statutes are very fair and well
composed and must certainly have been
made from long experience in the Gild .
The genealogy of the styles of architecture
has baffled many . Leder Scott believes
this to be the line of descent : First, the
Comacines continued Roman traditions,
as the Romans continued Etruscan ones ;
next, they orientalized their style by their
connection with the East through Aquileia,
and the influx of the Greek exiles into the
Gild . 	Later came a different influence
through the Saracens into the South, and
the Italian-Gothic was born . In the old times
(sixth to the tenth centuries) before the paint-
ers and sculptors, and after them the metal
workers, split off and formed companies of
their own, every kind of decoration was
practised by the Masters, as the letter of
Theodoric plainly shows . 	A church was not

COMACINE
complete unless it was adorned in its whole
height and breadth with sculpture on the out-
side mosaics or paintings on the inside, and
in its completeness formed the peoples' Bible
and dogma of religious belief, and this from
the very early times of Constantine and his
Byzantine mosaicists, and of Queen Theolinda
and her fresco-painters, up to the revival of
mosaics by the Cosmati and the fresco-
painting in the Tuscan schools, but never were
these arts entirely lost .
For the first, we have the identity of form
and ornamentation in their works and the
similarity of nomenclature and organization
between the Roman Collegio and the Lom-
bard Gild of Magistri . 	Besides this, the
well-known fact that the free republic of
Como was used as a refuge by Romans who
fled from barbaric invasions makes a strong
argument . 	For the second, we may plead
again the same identity of form and or-
ganization and a like similarity of orna-
mentation and nomenclature . 	Just as King
Luitprand's architects were called Magistri,
and the Grand Master the Gadtaldo, so
we have the great architectural Gilds in
Venice, in the thirteenth, fourteenth and fif-
teenth centuries, using the very same titles
and having the very same laws .
Again the hereditary descent is marked
by the patron saints of the Lombard and
Tuscan Lodges, being the Four Martyr
Brethren from a Roman Collegio . 	(See Four
Crowned Martyrs .)
All these and other indications are surely
as strong as documental proof, and are
practically the summary of the conclusions
of Leder Scott and are not overdrawn, being
amply borne out by facts already known .
Older writers recognized the presence of a
compact gild in the work, 	but did not
connect them with the builders of the Re-
naissance . 	More recent writers, 	such as
Rivoira Porter, and others declare the connec-
tion . 	this connection is probably without
the field of historical architects, whose work
is the study of the product of the workmen,
and not the workmen themselves, while our
interest is centered on the workmen and their
relations to those who follow them in con-
nected sequence and not on the product of
their work, further than to show and prove
relationships of the building crafts .
There are many most interesting and im-
portant things pertaining to the Comacines
that must be omitted in a cyclopedic article .
Their rich, varied and curious symbolism,
which even Ruskin failed to understand, would
furnish matter for a fair-sized volume .
While it is recognized that history should
always be written from as nearly original
sources as is possible, it has not been realized
in this instance, as I have had to rely solely
on those who have made their investigations
at first-hand, and while some liberties have
been taken, no violence has been done to
their conclusions .
The reader will find a rich field in the
following bibliography :
COMBINATION 	167
The Cathedral Builders, The Story of a Great
Masonic Guild, by Leder Scott .
The Comacines, Their Predecessors and their
Successors, by W . Ravencroft .
Lombard Architecture, Its Origin, Develop-
ment and Derivatives, by G . T . Rivoira .
A History of Architecture in Italy, from the
Time of Constantine to the Dawn of the Re-
naissance, by Charles A . Cummings .
Medieval Architecture, by A . K . Porter .
Architecture in Italy from the Sixth to the
Eleventh Century, Historical and Critical Re-
searches, by Raffaele Cattaneo .
Historical Essay on Architecture, by Thomas
Hope .
These are English works or have been trans .
lated into English . 	From them an extensive
bibliography embracing other languages will
be found . 	[E . E . C .]
Combination of Masons . 	The combina-
tion of the Freemasons in the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries to demand a higher rate of
wages, which eventually gave rise to the en-
actment of the Statutes of Laborers, is thus
described by a writer in the Gentleman's Mag-
azine (January, 1740, p . 17) : "King Edward
III . took so great an affection to Windsor, the
place of his birth, that he instituted the Order
of the Garter there, and rebuilt and enlarged
the castle, with the church and chapel of St .
George . This was a great work and required a
great many hands ; and for the carrying of it
on writs were directed to the sheriffs of severall
counties to send thither, under the penalty of
£100 each, such a number of masons by a day
appointed . London sent forty, so did Devon,
Somerset, and several other counties ; but sev-
eral dying of the plague, and others deserting
the service, new writs were issued to send up
supplies . 	Yorkshire sent sixty, and other
counties proportionably, and orders were
given that no one should entertain any of
these runaway masons, under pain of forfeit-
ure of all their goods . Hereupon, the Masons
entered into a combination not to work, unless
at higher wages . 	They agreed upon tokens,
etc ., to know one another by, and to assist
one another against being impressed, and not
to work unless free and on their own terms .
Hence they called themselves Freemasons ;
and this combination continued during the
carrying on of these buildings for several years .
The wars between the two Houses coming on
in the next reign, the discontented herded to-
gether in the same manner, and the gentry also
underhand supporting the malcontents, oc-
casioned several Acts of Parliament against
the combination of Masons and other persons
under that denomination, the titles of which
Acts are still to be seen in the printed stat-
utes of those reigns ." Ashmole in his History
of the Order of the Garter (p . 801, confirms the
fact of the impressment of workmen by
Edward ; and the combination that follow
seems but a natural consequence of this op-
pressive act ; but the assertion that the origin
of Freemasonry as an organized institution of
builders is to be traced to such a combination,
is not supported by the facts of history, and,

168 	COMMANDER
indeed, the writer himself admits that the
Masons denied its truth .
Commander . 	1 . The presiding officer in
a Commandery of Knights Templar . His
style is "Eminent," and the jewel of his office
is a cross, from which issue rays of light . In
England and Canada he is now styled "Pre-
ceptor ." 2 . The Superintendent of a Com-
mandery, as a house or residence of the An-
cient Knights of Malta, was so called .
Commander, Grand . See Grand Com-
mander .
Commander-in-Chief . 	The presiding
officer in a Consistory of Sublime Princes of
the Royal Secret in the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite. His style is "Illustrious ." In
a Grand Consistory the presiding officer is a
Grand Commander-in-Chief, and he is styled
"Very Illustrious ."
Commandery . 	1 . In the United States
all regular assemblies of Knights Templar are
called Commanderies, and must consist of the
following officers : 	Fminent 	Commander,
Generalissimo, 	Captain-General, 	Prelate,
Senior Warden Junior Warden, Treasurer,
Recorder, Warder, Standard-Bearer, Sword-
Bearer, and Sentinel . These Commanderies
derive their warrants of Constitution from a
Grand Commandery, or, if there is no such
body in the State in which they are organized,
from the Grand Encampment of the United
States . They confer the degrees of Compan-
ion of the Red Cross, Knight Templar, and
Knight of Malta .
In a Commandery of Knights Templars, the
throne is situated in the East . Above it are
suspended three banners : the center one
bearing a cross, surmounted by a glory ; the
left one having inscribed on it the emblems of
the Order, and the right one, a paschal lamb .
The Eminent Commander is seated on the
throne ; the Generalissimo, Prelate, and Past
Commanders on his right ; the Captain-Gen-
eral on his left- the Treasurer and Recorder,
as in a Symbolic Lodge ; the Senior Warden
at the southwest angle of the triangle, and
upon the right of the first division ; the Junior
Warden at the northwest angle of the triangle,
and on the left of the third division ; the
Standard-Bearer in the West, between the
Sword-Bearer on his right, and the Warder on
his left ; and in front of him is a stall for the
initiate . The Knights are arranged in equal
numbers on each side, and in front of the
throne . In England and Canada a body of
Knights Templars is called a "Preceptory"
2 . The houses or residences of the Knights
of Malta were called Commanderies, and the
aggregation of them in a nation was called a
Priory or Grand Priory .
Commandery, Grand . 	When three or
more Commanderies are instituted in a State,
they may unite and form a Grand Com-
mandery under the regulations prescribed by
the Grand Encampment of the United States .
They have the superintendence of all Com-
mand eriea of KnightsTemplars thatare holden
in their respective jurisdictions .
A Grand Commandery meets at least an-
COMMITTEE
nually, and its officers consist of a Grand Com-
mander, Deput Grand Commander, Grand
Generalissimo, (rand Captain-General, Grand
Prelate, Grand Senior and Junior Warden,
Grand Treasurer, Grand Recorder, Grand
Warder, Grand Standard-Bearer, and Grand
Sword-Bearer .
Committee . To facilitate the transaction
of business, a Lodge or Grand Lodge often
refers a subject to a particular committee for
investigation and report . By the usages of
Masonry, committees of this character are
always appointed by the presiding officer ; and
the Master of a Lodge, when present at the
meeting of a committee, may act, if he thinks
proper, as its chairman ; for the Master pre-
sides over any assemblage of the Craft in his
jurisdiction .
Committee, General . By the Constitu-
tion of the Grand Lodge of England, all mat-
ters of business to be brought under the con-
sideration of the Grand Lodge must previously
be presented to a General Committee, con-
sisting of the President of the Board of Benev-
olence, the Present and Past Grand Officers,
and the Master of every regular Lodge, who
meet on the fourteenth day immediately pre-
ceding each quarterly communication . No
such regulation exists in any of the Grand
Lodges of America .
Committee of Charity . In most Lodges
there is a standing Committee of Charity,
appointed at the beginning of the year, to
which, in general, a plications for relief are
referred by the Loge . In cases where the
Lodge does not itself take immediate action,
the committee is also invested with the power
to grant relief to a limited amount during the
recess of the Lodge .
Committee of Finance . In many Lodges
the Master, Wardens, Treasurer, and Secre-
tary constitute a Committee of Finance, to
which is referred the general supervision of the
finances of the Lodge .
Committee on Foreign Correspond-
ence . 	In none of the Grand Lodges of this
country, forty years ago, was such a committee
as that on foreign correspondence ever ap-
pointed . A few of them had corresponding
secretaries, to whom were entrusted the duty
of attending to the correspondence of the
body : a duty which was very generally neg-
lected . A report on the proceedings of other
bodies was altogether unknown . Grand
Lodges met and transacted the local business
of their own jurisdictions without any refer-
ence to what was passing abroad .
But within the last twenty or thirty years,
improvements in this respect began to show
themselves. Intelligent Masons saw that it
would no longer do to isolate themselves from
the Fraternity in other countries, and that, if
any moral or intellectual advancement was to
be expected, it must be derived from the inter-
communication and collision of ideas ; and the
first step toward this advancement was the
appointment in every Grand Lodge of a com-
mittee, whose duty it should be to collate the
proceedings of other jurisdictions, and to elim-

COMMITTEE
irate from them the most important Items .
These committees were, however, very slow in
assuming the functions which devolved upon
them, and in coming up to the full measure of
their duties . 	At first their reports were little
more than "reports of progress ." No light was
derived from their collation, and the bodies
which had appointed them were no wiser after
their reports had been read than they were
before .
As a specimen of the first condition and sub-
sequent improvement of these committees on
foreign correspondence, let us take at random
the transactions of any Grand Lodge old
enough to have a history and intelligent
enough to have made any progress ; and, for
this purpose, the proceedings of the Grand
Lodge of Ohio, two volumes of which lie con-
veniently at hand will do as well as any other .
The Grand Lodge of Ohio was organized in
January, 1808 . From that time to 1829, its
proceedings contain no reference to a commit-
tee on correspondence ; and except, I think, a
single allusion to the Washington Convention,
made in the report of a special committee, the
Masons of Ohio seem to have had no cogni-
zance, or at least to have shown no recogni-
tion, of any Masonry which might be outside
of their own jurisdiction .
But in the year 1830, for the first time, a
committee was appointed to report on the
foreign correspondence of the Grand Lodge .
This committee bore the title of the "Com-
mittee on Communications from Foreign
Grand Lodges," etc ., and made during the
session a report of eight lines in length, which
contained just the amount of information
that could be condensed in that brief space,
and no more . In 1831, the report was fifteen
lines long- in 1832, ten lines ; in 1833, twelve
lines ; and so on for' several years, the reports
being sometimes a little longer and some-
times a little shorter ; but the length being
always measured by lines, and not 	y pages,
until, in 1837, there was a marked falling off,
the report consisting only of one line and a
half . Of this report, which certainly cannot
be accused of verbosity, the following is an
exact copy : "Nothing has been presented for
the consideration of your committee requiring
the action of the Grand Lodge ."
p
In 1842, the labors of the committee began
to increase, and their report fills a page of the
roceedings . Things now rapidly improved .
1843, the report was three pages long ; in
1845 four pages ; in 1846 seven ; in 1848,
nearly thirteen ; in 1853, ourteen ; in 1856
thirty ; and in 1857, fort y -six . Thenceforward
there is no more fault to be found . The reports
of the future committees were of full growth,
and we do not again hear such an unmeaning
phrase as "nothing requiring the action of the
Grand Lodge ."
The history of these reports in other Grand
Lodges is the same as that in Ohio . Beginning
with a few lines, which announced the absence
of all matters worthy of consideration, they
have grown up to the full stature of elaborate
essays, extending to one hundred and some-
COMMITTEE 	169
times to one hundred and fifty pages, in which
the most important and interesting subjects
of Masonic history, philosophy, and 'urispru-
dence are discussed, generally with much
ability .
At this day the reports of the committees
on foreign correspondence in all the Grand
Lodges of this country constitute an impor-
tant portion of the literature of the Institu-
tion . The chairmen of these committees-for
the other members fill, for the most part, only
the post of "sleeping partners "-are generally
men of education and talent, who, by the very
occupation in which they are employed, of
reading the published proceedings of all the
Grand Lodges in correspondence with their
own, have become thoroughly conversant
with the contemporary history of the Order,
while a great many of them have extended
their studies in its previous history .
The "reportorial corps," as these hard-
laboring brethren are beginning to call them-
selves, exercise, of course, a not trifling in-
fluence in the 	Order . 	These committees
annually submit to their respective Grand
Lodges a mass of interesting information,
which is read with great avidity by their
brethren . Gradually-for at first it was not
their custom-they have added to the bare
narration of facts their comments on Ma-
sonic law and their criticisms on the decisions
made in other jurisdictions . These comments
and criticisms have very naturally their
weight, sometimes beyond their actual worth ;
and it will not therefore be improper to take
a glance at what ought to be the character
of a report on foreign correspondence .
In the first place, then, a reporter of foreign
correspondence should be, in the most literal
sense of Shakespeare's words, "a brief chron-
icler of the times ." His report should contain
a succinct account of everything of impor-
tance that is passing in the Masonic world, so
far as his materials supply him with the in-
formation . But, remembering that he is writ-
ing for the instruction of hundreds, perhaps
thousands, many of whom cannot spare much
time, and many others who have no inclina-
tion to spare it, he should eschew the sin of
tediousness, never forgetting that "brevity is
the soul of wit ." He should omit all details
that have no special interest ; should husband
his space for important items, and be exceed-
ingly parsimonious in the use of unnecessary
expletives, whose only use is to add to the
length of a line . In a word, he should remem-
ber that he is not an orator but an historian .
A rigid adherence to these principles would
save the expense of many printed pages to his
Grand Lodge, and the waste of much time to
his readers . These reports will form the germ
of future Masonic history . The collected mass
will be an immense one, and it should not be
unnecessarily enlarged by the admission of
trivial items .
In the next place, although I admit that
these "brethren of the reportorial corps"
have peculiar advantages in reading the opin-
ions of their contemporaries on subjects of
q

170 	COMMITTEE
Masonic jurisprudence 	they would be mis-
taken in supposing tint these advantages
must necessarily make them Masonic lawyers .
Ex quovis ligno non fit Mercurius . 	It is not
every man that will make a lawyer . A pecul-
iar turn of mind and a habit of close reason-
ing, as well as a thorough acquaintance with
the law itself, are required to fit one for the
investigation of questions of jurisprudence .
Reporters, therefore, should assume the task
of adjudicating points of law with much dif-
fidence . They should not pretend to make a
decision ex cathedra, but only to express an
opinion ; and that opinion they should at-
tempt to sustain by arguments that may con-
vince their readers . 	Dogmatism is entirely
out of place in a Masonic report on foreign
correspondence .
But if tediousness and dogmatism are dis-
pleasing, how much more offensive must be
rudeness and personality . Courtesy is a Ma-
sonic as well as a knightly virtue, and the
reporter who takes advantage of his official
position to speak rudely of his brethren, or
makes his report the vehicle of scurrility and
abuse, most strangely forgets the duty and
respect which he owes to the Grand Lodge
which he represents and the Fraternity to
which he addresses himself .
And, lastly, a few words as to style . These
reports, I have already said, constitute an
important feature of asonic literature . 	It
should be, then, the object and aim of every-
one to give to them a tone and character
which shall reflect honor on the society whence
they emanate, and enhance the reputation of
their authors . 	The style cannot always be
scholarly, but it should always be chaste ; it
may sometimes want eloquence, but it should
never be marked by vulgarity . Coarseness of
language and slang phrases are manifestly out
of place in a paper which treats of subjects
such as naturally belong to a Masonic docu-
ment . Wit and humor we would not, of course,
exclude . The Horatian maxim bids us some-
times to unbend, and old Menander thought
it would not do always to appear wise . Even
the solemn Johnson could sometimes perpe-
trate a joke, and Sidney Smith has enlivened
his lectures on moral philosophy with numer-
ous witticisms . There are those who delight in
the stateliness of Coleridge ; but for ourselves
we do not object to the levity of Lamb, though
we would not care to descend to the vulgarity
of Rabelais .
To sum up the whole matter in a few
words, these reports on foreign correspondence
should be succinct and, if you please, elabo-
rate chronicles of all passing events in the Ma-
sonic world ; they should express the opinions
of their authors on points of Masonic law, not
as judicial dicta, but simply as opinions, not
to be dogmatically enforced, but to be sus-
tained and supported by the best arguments
that the writers can produce ; they should not
be made the vehicles of personal abuse or
vituperation ; 	and, lastly, they should be
clothed in language worthy of the literature of
the Order .
COMMUNICATION
Committee, Private . The well-known
regulation which forbids private committees
in the Lodge, that is, select conversations be-
tween two or more members, in which the
other members are not permitted to join, is
derived from the Old Charges : "You are not
to hold private committees or separate con-
versation, without leave from the Master, nor
to talk of anything impertinent or unseemly,
nor to interrupt the Master or Wardens, or
any brother speaking to the Master :" (Con-
stitutions, 1723, p . 53 .)
Committee, Report of . 	See Report of a
Committee .
Common Gavel . See Gavel .
Communication . 	The 	meeting 	of a
Lodge is so called . There is a peculiar signif-
icance in this term . 	"To communicate,"
which in the Old English form, was "to com-
mon,' originally meant to share in common
with others . The great sacrament of the Chris-
tian church, which denotes a participation in
the mysteries of the religion and a fellowship
in the church, is called a "communion,"
which is fundamentally the same as a "com-
munication," for he who partakes of the com-
munion is said "to communicate ." Hence, the
meetings of Masonic Lodges are called com-
munications, to signify that it is not simply
the ordinary meeting of a society for the trans-
action of business, but that such meeting is the
fellowship of men engaged in a common pur-
suit, and governed by a common principle,
and that there is therein a communication or
participation of those feelings and sentiments
that constitute a true brotherhood .
The communications of Lodges are regular
or stated and special or emergent . Regular
communications are held under the provision
of the by-laws, but special communications
are called by order of the Master . 	It is a
regulation that no special communication can
alter amend, or rescind the proceedings of a
re 	ar communication .
Communication, Grand . 	The meeting
of a Grand Lodge .
Communication of Degrees . 	When the
peculiar mysteries of a degree are bestowed
upon a candidate by mere verbal description
of the bestower, without his being made to
pass through the constituted ceremonies, the
degree is technically said to be communicated .
This mode is, however, entirely confined in
America to the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite . The degrees may in that Rite be thus
conferred in any place where secrecy is se-
cured ; 	but the prerogative of communi-
cating is restricted to the presiding officers
of bodies of the Rite, who may communicate
certain of the degrees upon candidates who
have been previously duly elected, and to
Inspectors and Deputy Inspectors-General of
the Thirty-third Degree, who may communi-
cate all the degrees of the Rite, except the
last, to any persons whom they may deem
qualified to receive them .
Communication, Quarterly . 	Anciently
Grand Lodges, which were then called General
Assemblies of the Craft, were held annually .

COMMUNION
But it is said that the Grand Master Inigo
Jones instituted quarterly communications
at the beginning of the seventeenth century
(Constitutions, 1738, p . 99), which were con-
tinued by his successors, the Earl of Pem-
broke and Sir Christopher Wren, until the in-
firmities of the latter compelled him to neglect
them . On the revival in 1717, provision was
made for their resumption ; and in the twelfth
of the thirty-nine Regulations of 1721 it was
declared that the Grand Lodge must have
a quarterly communication about Michael-
mas, Christmas, and Lady-Day . 	(Constitu-
tions, 1723, p . 61 .) These quarterly communi-
cations are still retained by the Grand Lodge
of England, and in America by the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts, but all other Amer-
ican Grand Lodges have adopted the old sys-
tem of annual communications .
Communion of the Brethren . See
Bread, Consecrated .
Como . 	Capital of the Province of Como
in northern Italy, situated at S . end of W .
branch of Lake of Como, about thirty miles
from Milan, and to-day is an industrial city .
Its interest to Masons is on account of it
being the center from which radiated the Co-
macme Masters, who descended from the
Roman Colleges of Artificers and who built
for the Lombards and others during their
reign and carried their Art and influence into
the Cathedral building of the Renaissance .
(See Comacine Masters .)
The archeologists have determined the form
of the older city of Roman times to have been
rectangular, enclosed by walls . Towers were
constructed on
walls in the
twelfth cen-
tury . Portions
of the walls are
now to be seen
in the garden
of Liceo Volta .
Baths common
in all Roman
cities have
been discov-
ered . 	Fortifi-
cations erected
previous to
1127 	were
largely con-
structed with
Roman in-
scribed sepul-
chral urns and
other remains,
in which most
all Roman
cities were un-
usually rich .
It is usual
to record that
Como was the
birthplace of
the elder and younger Pliny . The younger
Pliny had a villa here called Comedia and
was much interested in building the city,
PARAPET OF THE OLD CHURCH
OF ST . ABBONDIO . MILAN,
NINTH CENTURY .
COMPAGNONAGE 	171
having founded baths, a library, and aided in
charity for the support of orphan children .
Of the many letters of the younger Pliny
that remain, one is to his builder, Mustio, a
Comacine architect, commissioning him to
restore the temple of the Eleusinian Ceres, in
which, after explaining the form of design he
wished it to take, he concludes : " . 	. at least,
unless you think of something better, you,
whose Art can always overcome difficulties
of position ."
There was an early church of SS . Peter and
Paul in the fifth century that stood outside
of the town, and the site is now occupied
by the Romanesque church of St . Abbondio,
founded 1013, and consecrated 1095 . 	There
are found many interesting intrecci remains
of early carvings of the Comacine or Solo-
mon's Knob . 	(See cut .)
On a site of an earlier church stands the
present Cathedral of Como, which is built
entirely of marble . It was begun in 1396, but
was altered in 1487-1526 into Renaissance .
Authors disagree as to whether the church was
restored or rebuilt . The facade, 1457-86, fol-
lows in its lines the old Lombard form but
the dividing pilasters are lavishly enriched,
being perpendicular niches with a statue in
each .
Scott says that "During the years from
1468 to [492, the books of the Lodge, pre-
served in the archives, abound in names of
Magistri from the neighborhood of Como,
both architects and sculptors, and among
them was Tommaso Rodari, who entered the
Lodge in 1490, with a letter of recommen-
dation from the Duke, advising that he be
specially trained in the Art of Sculpture .
He and four others were sent to Rome to re-
main ten years, and perfect themselves in
sculpture, to study the antique, and to return
to the laborerium as fully qualified masters ."
Rodari returned and sculptured a most beau-
tiful North door of the Cathedral in rich or-
nate Renaissance style, although the lions
are still under the columns, thus preserving a
Comacine symbol so universally common in
earlier times of pure Lombard style .
The history of Como as a city with her vari-
ous fortunes and defeats during the invasions
of barbarians and her long conflicts with her
old enemy, Milan, may be found elsewhere .
What interests us is the early colonization by
Rome and her subsequent relations to Archi-
tecture at the Renaissance .
Soon after 89 B .c . Rome sent 3,000 colo-
nists to Como, and Artificers were certainly
among them, and in 59 B .C . Caesar sent 5,000
more, and the place received the name Novum
Comum and received Latin rights . 	(See
Comacine Masters .)
Compagnon . 	In French Masonry, a Fel-
low-Craft is so called, and the grade du Com-
pagnon is the degree of Fellow-Craft .
Compagnonage . 	This is the name which
is given in France to certain mystical associa-
tions formed between workmen of the same
or an analogous handicraft, whose object
is to afford mutual assistance to the mem-

172 	COMPAGNONAGE
hers . It was at one time considered among
handicraftsmen as the Second Degree of the
novitiate, before arriving at the maitrise, or
mastership, the first being, of course, that of
apprentice ; and workmen were admitted into
it only after five years of apprenticeship, and on
the production of a skilfully constructed piece
of work, which was called their chef-d'auvre .
Tradition gives to Compagnonage a Hebraic
origin, which to some extent assimilates it
to the traditional history of Freemasonry as
springing out of the Solomonic Temple . It is,
however, certain that it arose, in the twelfth
century, out of a part of the corporation of
workmen . These, who prosecuted the labors
of their Craft from province to province, could
not shut their eyes to the narrow policy of the
gilds or corporations, which the masters were
constantly , seeking to make more exclusive .
Thence 	y perceived the necessity of form-
ing for themselves associations or confra-
ternities, whose protection should accompany
them in all their laborious wanderings, and
secure to them employment and fraternal
intercourse when arriving in strange towns .
The Compagnons de la Tour, which is the
title assumed by those who are the members of
the brotherhoods of Compagnonage, have
legends, which have been traditionally trans-
mitted from age to age, by which, like the
Freemasons, they trace the origin of their as-
sociation to the Temple of King Solomon .
These legends are three in number, for the
different societies of Compagnonage recognize
three different founders, and hence made
three different associations, which are :
1 . The Children of Solomon .
2 . The Children of Maitre Jacques .
3 . The Children of Pere Soubise .
These three societies or classes of the Com-
pagnons are irreconcilable enemies and re-
proach each other with the imaginary con-
tests of their supposed founders .
The Children of Solomon pretend that
King Solomon gave them their devoir, or gild,
as a reward for their labors at the Temple,
and that he had there united them into a
brotherhood .
The Children of Maitre Jacques say that
their founder, who was the son of a celebrated
architect named Jacquain, or Jacques, was one
of the chief Masters of Solomon, and a col-
league of Hiram . He was born in a small city
of Gaul named Carte, and now St . Romille,
but which we should in vain look for on the
ma s .
om the age of fifteen he was employed in
stone-cutting . He traveled in Greece, where
he learned sculpture and architecture ; after-
ward went to Egypt, and thence to Jerusa-
lem, where he constructed two pillars with so
much skill that he was immediately received
as a Master of the Craft . Maitre Jacques and
his colleague Pere Soubise, after the labors of
the Temple were completed, resolved to go
together to Gaul, swearing that they would
never separate ; but the union did not last
very l o . i n consequence of the jealousy ex-
cited in ere Soubise by the ascendency et and compasses was a common symbol .
COMPAGNONAGE
Maitre Jacques over their disciples . They
parted, and the former landed at Bordeaux,
and the latter at Marseilles .
One day, Maitre Jacques, being far away
from his disciples, was attacked b ten of those
of Pere Soubise . To save himself, he fled into
a marsh, where he sustained himself from
sinking by holding on to the reeds, and was
eventually rescued by his disciples . He then
retired to St . Baume, but being soon after
betrayed by a disciple, named, according to
some, Jeron, and according to others, Jamais,
he was assassinated by five blows of a dagger,
in the forty-seventh year of his age, four years
and nine days after his departure from Jerusa-
lem . 	On his robe was subsequently found a
reed which he wore in memory of his having
been saved in the marsh, and thenceforth his
disciples adopted the reed as the emblem of
their Order .
Pere Soubise is not generally accused of
having taken any part in the assassination .
The tears which he shed over the tomb of his
colleague removed in part the suspicions
which had at first rested on him . The traitor
who committed the crime, subsequently, in a
moment of deep contrition, cast himself into a
well which the disciples of Maitre Jacques
filled up with stones . The relics of the martyr
were long preserved in a sacred chest, and,
when his disciples afterward separated into
different crafts, his hat was given to the hat-
ters, his tunic to the stone-cutters, his sandals
to the locksmiths, his mantle to the Joiners,
his girdle to the carpenters, and his staff to the
cartwrights .
According to another tradition Maitre
Jacques was no other than Jacques Je Molay,
the last Grand Master of the Templars, who
had collected under his banner some of the
Children of Solomon that had separated from
the parent society, and who, about 1268, con-
ferred upon them a new devoir or gild . Pere
Soubise is said, in the same legend, to have
been a Benedictine monk, who gave to the
carpenters some special statutes . This second
legend is generally recognized as more truthful
than the first . From this it follows that the
division of the society of Compagnonage into
three classes dates from the thirteenth cen-
tury, and that the Children of Maitre Jacques
and of Pere Soubise are more modern than the
Children of Solomon, from whom they were a
dismemberment .
The organization of these associations of
Compagnonage reminds one very strongly of
the somewhat similar org ani zation of the
Stonemasons of Germany and of other coun-
tries in the Middle Ages . To one of these
classes every handicraftsman in France was
expected to attach himself . There was an initi-
ation, and a system of degrees which were four
in number : the Accepted Companion, the
Finished Companion, the Initiated Compan-
ion, and, lastly, the Affiliated Companion .
There were also signs and words as modes of
recognition, and decorations, which varied in
the different devoirs ; but to all, the square

COMPAGNONAGE
As soon as a Craftsman had passed through
his apprenticeship, he joined one of these
gilds, and commenced his journey over
France, which was called the tour de France, in
the course of which he visited the principal
cities, towns, and villages, stopping for a
time wherever he could secure employment .
In almost every town there was a house of
call, presided over always by a woman, who
was affectionately called "la Mere," or the
Mother, and the same name was given to the
house itself . 	There the Compagnons held
their meetings and annually elected their
officers, and traveling workmen repaired there
to obtain food and lodging, and the necessary
information which might lead to employment .
When two Companions met on the road,
one of them addressed the other with the
topage, or challenge, being a formula of words,
the conventional reply to which would indi-
cate that the other was a member of the same
devoir . If such was the case, friendly greetings
ensued . But if the reply was not satisfactory,
and it appeared that they belonged to differ-
ent associations, a war of words, and even of
blows, was the result . Such was formerly the
custom, but through the evangelic labors of
Agricol Perdiquier, a journeyman joiner of
Avignon, who traveled through France in-
culcating lessons of brotherly love, a better
spirit now exists .
In each locality the association has a chief,
who is annually elected by ballot at the Gen-
eral Assembly of the Craft . He is called the
First Compagnon of Dignity . He presides over
the meetings, which ordinarily take place on
the first Sunday of every month, and repre-
sents the society in its intercourse with other
bodies, with the Masters, or with the munici-
pal authorities .
Compagnonage has been exposed at various
periods, to the persecutions of the i%urch and
the State, as well as to the opposition of the
Corporations of Masters, to which, of course,
its designs were antagonistic, because it op-
posed their monopoly . Unlike them, and par-
ticularly the Corporation of Freemasons, it
was not under the protection of the Church .
The practise of its mystical receptions was
condemned by the Faculty of Theology at
Paris, in 1655, as impious . But a hundred
years before, in 1541 a decree of Francis I .
had interdicted the (iompagnons de la Tour
from binding themselves by an oath, from
wearing swords or canes, from assembling in a
greater number than five outside of their Mas-
ters' houses, or from having banquets on any
occasion . During the sixteenth, seventeenth,
and eighteenth centuries, the parliaments
were continually interposing their power
against the associations of Compagnonage, as
well as against other fraternities . The effects
of these persecutions, although embarrass-
ing, were not absolutely disastrous . In spite
of them, Compagnonage was never entirely
dissolved, although a few of the trades aban-
doned their devoirs • some of which, however
---such as that of the shoemakers-were sub-
sequently renewed . And at this day the gilds
COMPASSES 	173
of the workmen still exist in France having
lost, it is true, much of their original code of
religious dogmas and symbols and, although
not recognized by the law, always tolerated
by the municipal authorities and undisturbed
by the police . To the Masonic scholar the
history of these devoirs or gilds is pecu1iarl
interesting . In nearly all of them the Temp
of Solomon prevails as a predominant symbol,
while the square and compass, their favorite
and constant device, would seem, in some way,
to identify them with Freemasonry so far as
respects the probability of a common origin .
Compagnons de la Tour . 	The title as-
sumed by the workmen in France who belong
to the different gilds of Compagnonage, which
see .
Companion . 	A title bestowed by Royal
Arch Masons upon each other, and equivalent
to the word brother in Symbolic Lodges . It
refers, most probably, to the companionship
in exile and captivity of the ancient Jews,
from the destruction of the Temple by Neb-
uchadnezzar to its restoration by Zerubbabel,
under the auspices of Cyrus . In using this title
in a higher degree, the Masons who adopted
it seem to have intimated that there was a
shade of difference between its meaning and
that of brother . The latter refers to the uni-
versal fatherhood of God and the universal
brotherhood of mani but the former repre-
sents a companionship or common pursuit of
one object-the common endurance of suffer-
ing or the common enjoyment of happiness .
Companion represents a closer tie than Brother .
The one is a natural relation shared by all men ;
the other a connection, the result of choice
and confined to a few . All men are our breth-
ren, not all our companions .
Companions, The Twelve . 	George F .
Fort says that the "twelve Companions of
Master Hiram correspond unquestionably to
the twelve zodiacal signs, or the twelve months
of the year . The ground-work of this tradi-
tion is a fragment of ancient natural religion,
common to both Oriental and European na-
tionsi or, more properly, was derived from
identical sources . The treacherous Craftsmen
of Hiram the Good are the three winter
months which slew him . He is the sun surviv-
ing during the eleven consecutive months, but
subjected to the irresistible power of three
ruffians, the winter months ; in the twelfth
and last month, that luminary, Hiram, the
good, the beauteous, the bright, the sun god,
is extinguished ." 	(The Early History and
Antiquities of Freemasonry, p . 408 .)
Compasses . 	As in Operative Masonry,
the compasses are used for the admeasure-
ment of the architect's plans, and to enable
him to give those just proportions which will
ensure beauty as well as stability to his work ;
so, in Speculative Masonr
LIT this important
implement symbolic of that even tenor of
deportment, that true standard of rectitude
which alone can bestow happiness here and
felicity hereafter . Hence are the compasses
the most prominent emblem of virtue, the
true and only measure of a Mason's life and

174 	COMPOSITE
conduct . 	As the Bible gives us light on our
duties to God, and the square illustrates our
duties to our neighborhood and brother, so
the compasses give that additional light which is
to instruct us in the duty we owe to ourselves
-the great, imperative duty of circumscrib-
ing our passions, and keeping our desires
within due bounds . "It is ordained," says
the philosophic Burke, "in the eternal consti-
tution of things, that men of intemperate
passions cannot be free ; their passions forge
their fetters ." Those brethren who delight to
trace our emblems to an astronomical origin,
find in the compasses a symbol of the sun, the
circular pivot representing the body of the
luminary, and the diverging legs his rays .
In the earliest rituals of the last century,
the compasses are described as a part of the
furniture of the Lodge, and are said to belong
to the Master . Some change will be found in
this respect in the ritual of the present day .
(See Square and Compasses .)
Composite . 	One of the five orders of
architecture introduced by the Romans, and
compounded of the other four, whence it de-
rives its name . Although it combines strength
with beauty, yet, as it is a comparatively
modern invention, it is held in little esteem
among Freemasons .
Concealment of the Body . 	See Aphan-
ism .
Conclave . Commanderies of Knights Tem-
plars in England and Canada were called Con-
claves, and the Grand Encampment, the
Grand Conclave, but the terms now in use
are "Preceptory" and "Great Priory" re-
spectively . The word is also applied to the
meetings in some other of the high degrees .
The word is derived from the Latin con,
"with," and clavis, "a key," to denote the idea
of being locked up in seclusion, and in this
sense was first applied to the apartment in
which the cardinals are literally locked up
when met to elect a Pope .
Concordists . 	A secret order established
in Prussia, by M . Lang, on the wreck of the
Tugendverein, which latter body was insti-
tuted in 1790 as a successor of the Illumi-
nati, and suppressed in 1812 by the Prussian
Government, on account of its supposed polit-
ical tendencies .
Confederacies . 	A title given to the
yearly meetings of the Masons in the time of
Henry VI ., of England, and used in the cele-
brated statute passed in the third year of his
reign, which begins thus : "Whereas, by the
yearly congregations and confederacies made
by the Masons in their General Chapiters as-
sembled, etc ." 	(See Laborers, Statutes of .)
Conference Lodges . 	Assemblies of the
members of a Lodge sometimes held in Ger-
many . Their object is the discussion of the
financial and other private matters of the
Lodge . Lodges of this kind held in France are
said to be "en famille ." There is no such ar-
rangement in English or American Masonry .
Conferring Degrees . When a candidate is
initiated into any degree of Masonry in due
form, the degree is said to have been conferred,
CONNECTICUT
in contradistinction to the looser mode of im-
parting its secrets by communication .
Confusion of Tongues . 	The Tower of
Babel is referred to in the ritual of the Third
Degree as the place where language was con-
founded and Masonry lost . 	Hence, in Ma-
sonic symbolism, as Masonry professes to pos-
sess a universal language, the confusion of
tongues at Babel is a symbol of that intellec-
tual darkness from which the aspirant is seek-
ing to emerge on his passage to that intellec-
tual light which is imparted by the Order .
(See Threshing Floor .)
Congregations . 	In the Old Records and
Constitutions of Masonry the yearly meetings
of the Craft are so called . Thus in the Halli-
well or Regius MS . it is said, "very Master
that is a Mason must be at the General Con-
gregation ." (Line 107 .) What are now called
"Communications of a Grand Lodge" were
then called "Congregations of the Craft ."
(See Assembly .)
Congresses, Masonic . 	At various times
in the history of Freemasonry conferences
have been held, in which, as in the General
Councils of the Church, the interests of the
Institution have been made the subject of
consideration . 	These conferences have re-
ceived the name of Masonic Congresses .
Whenever a respectable number of Masons
invested with deliberative powers, assemble as
the representatives of different countries and
jurisdictions, to take into consideration mat-
ters relating to the Order, such a meeting will
be properly called a Congress . Of these Con-
gresses some have been productive of little or
no effect, while others have undoubtedly left
their mark ; nor can it be doubted, that if a
General or Ecumenical Congress, consisting
of representatives of all the Masonic powers
of the world, were to meet, with an eye single
to the great object of Masonic reform, and
were to be guided by a liberal and conciliatory
spirit of compromise, such a Congress might at
the present day be of incalculable advantage .
The most important Congresses that have
met since the year 926 are those of York,
Strasburg, Ratisbon, Spire, Cologne, Basle,
Jena, Altenberg, Brunswick, Lyons, Wolfen-
buttel, Wilhehnsbad, Paris, Washington, Bal-
timore, Lexington, and Chicago . (See them
under their respective titles .)
Connecticut . 	The first Lodge organized
in Connecticut was Hiram Lodge, at New
Haven, which was warranted by the Grand
Lodge of the "Moderns" on November 12,
1750 ; it remained on the English register until
the formation of the Grand Lodge of Connect-
icut in 1789, when it became No . 1 on the roll
of that Grand Lodge . Other Lodges were in-
stituted, some by authority from Massachu-
setts, others from that derived from New
York . A convention of delegates from twelve
Lodges assembled at New Haven, July 8,
1789, and organized the Grand Lodge of Con-
necticut, Pierpont Edwards being elected
Grand Master .
In 1796, there were three Royal Arch Chap-
ters in Connecticut . In 1797, these Chapters

CONSECRATION
had entered into an association, probably
with the idea of establishing a Grand Chapter .
On January 24, 1798, a convention of dele-
gates from Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
Connecticut, and New York was held at
Hartford, when a conference was had on the
subject of the two conventions, the delegates
from Connecticut uniting with those from the
other States in forming the "Grand Royal
Arch Chapter of the Northern States of Amer-
ica ." By the Constitution then adopted, the
"Deputy Grand Chapter" of Connecticut was
established . The title was changed in the sub-
sequent year for that of "Grand Chapter ."
Webb gives the precise date of the organiza-
tion of the Grand Chapter as May 17, 1798 .
(See Royal Arch Grand Bodies in America .)
The Grand Council of Royal and Select
Masters was organized in 1819 .
The Grand Encampment of Knights Tem-
plar was organized September 13, 1827, but is
now known as the Grand Commandery .
Consecration . 	The appropriating or ded-
icating, with certain ceremonies, anything to
sacred purposes or offices by separating it
from common use . Hobbes, in his Leviathan
(p . iv ., c . 44), gives the best definition of this
ceremony . "To consecrate is, in Scripture, to
offer, give, or dedicate, in pious and decent
language and gesture, a man, or any other
thin, to God, by separating it from common
use .' 	Masonic Lodges, like ancient temples
and modern churches, have always been con-
secrated . The rite of consecration is performed
by the Grand Master, when the Lodge is said
to be consecrated in ample form ; by the Dep-
uty Grand Master, when it is said to be con-
secrated in due form ; or by the proxy of the
Grand Master, when it is said to be conse-
crated in form . The Grand Master, accom-
panied by his officers, proceeds to the hall of
the new Lodge, where, after the performance
of those ceremonies which are described in all
manuals and monitors, he solemnly conse-
crates the Lodge with the elements of corn,
wine, and oil, after which the Lodge is dedi-
cated and constituted, and the officers in-
stalled .
Consecration, Elements of . 	Those
things, the use of which in the ceremony as
constituent and elementary parts of it, are
necessary to the perfecting and legalizing of
the act of consecration . In Freemasonry, these
elements are corn, wine, and oil, which see .
Conservators of Masonry . 	About the
year 1859, a Mason of some distinction in
Ame*ica professed to have discovered, by his
researches, what he called "the true Preston-
Webb Work," and attempted to introduce it
into various jurisdictions, sometimes in op-
position to the wishes of the Grand Lodge and
leading Masons of the State . To aid in the
propagation of this ritual, he communicated it
to several persons, who were bound to use all
efforts-to some, indeed, of questionable pro-
priety-to secure its adoption by their re-
spective Grand Lodges . These Masons were
called by him "Conservators," and the order
or society which they constituted was called
CONSTITUTIONS 	175
the "Conservators' Association ." This asso-
ciation, and the efforts of its chief to extend
his ritual, met with the very general disap-
proval of the Masons of the United States,
and in some jurisdictions led to considerable
disturbance and bad feeling .
Conservators, Grand . 	See Grand Con-
servators .
Consistory .- The meetings of members of
the Thirty-second Degree, or Sublime Princes
of the Royal Secret in the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite, are called Consistories .
The elective officers are, according to the rit-
ual of the Southern Jurisdiction of the United
States, a Commander-in-Chief, Seneschal,
Preceptor, Chancellor, Minister of State,
Almoner, Registrar, and Treasurer . In the
Northern Jurisdiction it is sli*htly different,
the second and third officers being called Lieu-
tenant-Commanders . 	A Consistory confers
the Thirty-first and Thirty-second degrees of
the Rite .
Consistory, Grand . 	See Grand Consis-
to Constable, Grand . The fourth officer in a
Grand Consistory . It is the title which was
formerly given to the leader of the land forces
of the Knights Templars .
Constantine . 	See Red Cross of Rome and
Constantine .
Constituted, Legally . 	The phrase, a
legally constituted Lodge, is of ten used Ma-
sonically to designate any Lodge working
under proper authority, which necessarily
includes Lodges working under dispensation ;
although, strictly, a Lodge cannot be legally
constituted until it has received its warrant
or charter from the Grand Lodge . But so far
as respects the regularity of their work
Lodges under dispensation and warranted
Lodges have the same standing .
Constitution of a Lodge . Any number of
Master Masons, not less than seven, being de-
sirous of forming a new Lodge, having pre-
viously obtained a dispensation from the
Grand Master, must apply by petition to the
Grand Lodge of the State in which they reside,
praying for a Charter, or Warrant of Consti-
tution, to enable them to assemble as a regular
Lodge . 	Their petition being favorably re-
ceived, a warrant is immediately granted, and
the Grand Master appoints a day for its con-
secration and for the installation of its officers .
The Lodge having been consecrated, the
Grand Master, or person acting as such, de-
clares the brethren "to be constituted and
formed into a regular Lodge of Free and Ac-
cepted Masons," after which the officers of
the Lodge are installed . In this declaration of
the Master, accompanied with the appropri-
ate ceremonies, consists the constitution of the
Lodge . Until a Lodge is thus legally consti-
tuted, it forms no component of the constitu-
ency of the Grand Lodge, can neither elect
officers nor members, and exists only as a
Lodge under dispensation at the will of the
Grand Master .
Constitutions of 1762 . This is the name
of one of that series of Constitutions, or Reg

176 	CONSTITUTIONS
ulations, which have always been deemed of
importance in the history of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite ; although the Consti-
tutions of 1762 have really nothing to do with
that Rite, having been adopted long before its
establishment . In the year 1758, there was
founded at Paris a Masonic body which as-
sumed the title of the Chapter, or Council, of
Emperors of the East and West and which
organized a Rite known as the 'Rite of Per-
fection, consisting of twenty-five degrees, and
in the same year the Rite was carried to Ber-
lin by the Marquis de Bernez . In the following
year, a Council of Princes of the Royal Secret,
the highest degree conferred in the Rite, was
established at Bordeaux . On September 21,
1762, nine Commissioners met and drew up
Constitutions for the government of the Rite
of Perfection, which have been since known
as the Constitutions of 1762 . 	Of the place
where the Commissioners met, there is some
doubt . Of the two copies, hereafter to be
noticed, which are in the archives of the
Southern Supreme Council, that of Delay
hogue refers to the Orients of Paris and Berlin,
while that of Aveilh6 says that they were
made at the Grand Orient of Bordeaux .
Thory also (Act . Lat ., i ., 79) names Bordeaux
as the place of their enactment, and so does
Ragon (Orthod . Mag ., 133) ; although he
doubts their authenticity, and says that there
is no trace of any such document at Bordeaux,
nor any recollection there of the Consistory
which is said to have drawn up the Constitu-
tions . To this it may be answered, that in the
Archives of the Mother Supreme Council at
Charleston there are two manuscript copies
of these Constitutions-one written by Jean
Baptiste Marie Delahogue in 1798, which is
authenticated by Count de Grasse, under the
seal of the Grand Council of the Princes of the
Royal Secret, then sitting at Charleston- and
another, written by Jean Baptiste Aveili6 in
1797 . This copy is authenticated by Long,
Delahogue, De Grasse, and others . Both doc-
uments are written in French, and are almost
substantially the same . The translated title
of Delahogue's copy is as follows :
"Constitutions and Regulations drawn
up by nine Commissioners appointed by the
Grand Council of the Sovereign Princes of the
Royal Secret at the Grand Orients of Paris and
Berlin by virtue of the deliberation of the
fifth day of the third week of the seventh
month of the Hebrew Era, 5662, and of the
Christian Era, 1762 . To be ratified and ob-
served by the Grand Councils of the Sublime
Knights and Princes of Masonry as well as by
the articular Councils and Grand Inspectors
ly constituted in the two Hemi-
sp eres . ' 	The title of Aveilh6's manuscript
differs in this, that it says the Constitutions
were enacted "at the Grand Orient of Bor-
deaux," and that they were "transmitted to
our Brother Stephen Morin, Grand Inspector
of all the Lodges in the New World ." Prob-
ably this is a correct record, and the Constitu-
tions were prepared at Bordeaux .
The Constitutions of 1762 consist of thirty-
CONSTITUTIONS
five articles, and are principally occupied in
providing for the government of the Rite es-
tablished by the Council of Emperors of the
East and West and of the bodies under it .
The Constitutions of 1762 were published
at Paris, in 1832, in the Recueil des Actes du
Supreme Conseil de France . 	They were also
published, in 1859, in America; but the best
rimed exemplar of them is that published in
ench and E lish in the Book of Grand Con-
stitutions, edited by Bro . Albert Pike, which is
illustrated with copious and valuable annota-
tions by the editor, who was the Sovereign
Grand Commander of the Southern Supreme
Council .
Constitutions of 1786 . These are re-
garded by the members of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite as the fundamental law
of their Rite . They are said to have been es-
tablished by Frederick II ., of Prussia, in the
last year of his life - a statement, however,
that has been denied by some writers (see
Findel's History of Freemasonry under "Dec-
laration of the Grande Lodge of the Three
Globes at Berlin" ; also Gould's History of
Freemasonry under "The Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite "), and the controversies
as to their authenticity have made them a
subject of interest to all Masonic scholars .
Bro . Albert Pike, the Grand Commander of
the Supreme Council for the Southern Juris-
diction of the United States, published them,
in 1872, in Latin, French, and English ; and
his exhaustive annotations are valuable be-
cause he has devoted to the investigation of
their origin and their authenticity more elab-
orate care than any other writer .
Of these Constitutions, there are two ex-
emplars one in French and one in Latin, be-
tween which there are, however, some material
differences . For a long time the French exem-
plar only was known in this country . It is
supposed by Bro . Pike that it was brought to
Charleston by Count de Grasse, and that
under its provisions he organized the Supreme
Council in that place . They were accepted by
the Southern Supreme Council, and are still
regarded by the Northern Council as the only
authentic Constitutions . But there is abun-
dant internal evidence of the incomplete-
ness and incorrectness of the French Consti-
tution, of whose authenticity there is no
proof, nor is it likely that they were made at
Berlin and approved by Frederick, as they
profess .
The Latin Constitutions were probably not
known in France until after the Revolution .
In 1834, they were accepted as authentic by
the Supreme Council of France, and published
there m the same year . A copy of this was
published in America, in 1859, by Bro . Pike .
These Latin Constitutions of 1786 have been
recently accepted by the Supreme Council of
the Southern Jurisdiction in preference to the
French version . Most of the other Supreme
Councils-those, namel , of England and
Wales, of Italy, and of South America-have
adopted them as the law of the Rite, repudiat-
ing the French version as of no authority .

CONSTITUTIONS
The definite and well-authorized conclu-
sions to which Bro . Pike has arrived on the
subject of these Constitutions have been ex-
pressed by that eminent Mason in the follow-
mg language :
"We think we may safely say, that the
charge that the GrandConstitutums were forged
at Charleston is completely disproved, and
that it will be contemptible hereafter to
repeat it . No set of speculating Jews consti-
tuted the Supreme Council established there ;
and those who care for the reputations of Colo-
nel Mitchell, and Doctors Dalcho, Auld, and
Moultrie, may well afford to despise the scur-
rilous libels of the Ragons, Clavels, and Fol-
gers .
"And, secondly, that it is not by any
means proven or certain that the Constitu-
tions were not really made at Berlin as the
purport to have been, and approved by Fr
Brick . We think that the preponderance of
the evidence, internal and external, is on the
side of their authenticity, apart from the posi-
tive evidence of the certificate of 1832 .
"And, thirdlq, that the Supreme Council
at Charleston had a perfect right to adopt
them as the law of the new Order ; no matter
where, when or by whom they were made,
as Anderson ls Constitutions were adopted in
Symbolic Masonry ; that they are and always
have been the law of the Rite, because they
were so adopted ; and because no man has ever
lawfully received the degrees of the Rite
without swearing to maintain them as its
supreme law ; for as to the articles themselves,
there is no substantial difference between the
French and Latin copies .
"And, fourthly, that there is not one particle
of proof of any sort, circumstantial or his-
torical, or by argument from improbability,
that they are not genuine and authentic . In
law, documents of great age, found in the pos-
session of those interested under them, to whom
they rightfully belong, and with whom they
might naturally be expected to be found, are
admitted in evidence without proof, to estab-
lish title or facts . They prove themselves,
and to be avoided must be disproved by evi-
dence . There is no evidence against the genu-
ineness of these Grand Constitutions ."
Constitutions, Old . See Records, Old .
Consummatum est . 	Latin . 	It is fin-
ished . 	A phrase used in some of the higher
degrees of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite . It is borrowed from the expression used
by our Lord when he said, on the cross, "It is
finished," meaning that the work which had
been given him to do had been executed . It is,
therefore, appropriately used in the closing
ceremonies to indicate that the sublime work
of the degrees is finished, so that all may retire
in peace .
Contemplative . 	To contemplate is, lit-
erally, to watch and inspect the Temple . The
augur among the Romans, having taken his
stand on the Capitoline Hill, marked out with
his wand the space in the heavens he intended
to consult . This space he called the templum .
Having divided his templum into two parts
CONVENTIONS 	177
from top to bottom, he watched to see what
would occur . The watching of the templum
was called contemplating ; and hence those
who devoted themselves to meditation upon
sacred subjects assumed this title . Thus,
among the Jews, the Essenes and the Ther-
apeutists, and, among the Greeks, the school
of Pythagoras, were contemplative sects .
Among the Freemasons, the word speculative
is used as equivalent to contemplative . (See
Speculative Masonry .)
Continental Lodges . This expression is
used throughout this work, as it constantly is
by English writers to designate the Lodges on
the Continent of hurope which retain many
usages which have either been abandoned by,
or never were observed in, the Lodges of Eng-
land, Ireland, and Scotland, as well as the
United States of America . The words Con-
tinental Masonry are employed in the same
sense .
Contumacy . 	In civil law it is the refusal
or neglect of a party accused' to ap ax and
answer to a charge preferred against in a
court of justice . In Masonic jurisprudence, it
is disobedience of or rebellion against superior
authority, as when a Mason refuses to obey
the edict of his Lodge, or a Lodge refuses to
obe that of the Grand Master or the Grand
ge . The punishment, in the former case, is
generally suspension or expulsion ; in the latter,
arrest of charter or forfeiture of warrant .
Convention . 	In a State or Territory
where there is no Grand Lodge, but three or
more Lodges holding their Warrants of Con-
stitution from Grand Lodges outside of the
Territory, these Lodges may meet together by
their representatives-who should properly be
the first three officers of each Lodge-and take
the necessary steps for the organization of a
Grand Lodge in that State or Territory .
This preparatory meeting is called a Conven-
tion . A President and Secretary are chosen,
and a Grand Lodge is formed by the election
of a Grand Master and other proper officers,
when the old warrants are returned to the
Grand Lodges, and new ones taken out from
the newly formed Grand Lodge . Not less
than three Lodges are required to constitute a
Convention . The first Convention of this kind
ever held was that of the four old Lodges of
London, which met at the Apple-Tree Tavern,
in 1716, and in the following year formed the
Grand Lodge of England .
Convention Night . 	A title sometimes
given in the minutes of English Lodges to a
Lodge of emergency . Thus, in the minutes of
Constitution Lodge, No . 390 (London), we
read : "This being a Convention Night to
consider the state of the Lodge," etc . (Sad-
ler's History and Records of the Lodge of Emu-
lation, p . 64 .)
Conventions or Congresses of Masons in
chronological order :
926 . York, under Prince Edwin of Eng-
land .
1275 . Strasburg, under Edwin Von Stein-
bach .
1459 . Ratisbon, under Jost Dolzinger .

178 	CONVERSATION
1464 . Ratisbon, under Grand Lodge of
Strasburg .
1469. Spire, under Grand Lodge of Stras-
burg .
1535 . Cologne, by Hermann, Bishop of
Cologne .
1563 . Basle, by Grand Lodge of Strasburg .
1717 . London, by the Four Old Lodges .
Organization of Grand Lodge .
1730 . Dublby the Dublin Lodges .
1736 . Edinburgh . Organization and insti-
tution of Grand Lodge .
1756 . The Hague, by the Royal Union
Lodge .
1762 . Paris and Berlin, by nine commis-
sioners nominated by the Sov . G . Council of
P . of Masonry .
1763 . Jena, by the Lodge of Strict Observ-
ance .
1764 . Jena, by Johnson or Beeker, de-
nounced by Baron Hund .
1765 . Altenberg, a continuation wherein
Hund was elected G . M . of Rite of Strict Ob-
servance .
1772 . Kohl, by Ferdinand of Brunswick
and Baron Hund, without success .
1775 . Brunswick, by Ferdinand, Duke of
Brunswick .
1778 . Lyons, by Lodge of Chevaliers Bien-
faisants .
1778 . Wolfenbiittel, by Duke of Bruns-
wick .
1782 . Wilhelmsbad, an impotent session for
purification .
1784 . Paris, a medley of Lovers of Truth
and United Friends .
1786 . Berlin, alleged to have been convened
by Frederick II of Prussia .
1822 . Washington, a mutual assemblage
of American Lodges .
1843 . Baltimore, a mutual assemblage of
American Lodges .
1847 . Baltimore, a mutual assemblage of
American Lodges .
1853 . Lexington, Ky ., a mutual assemblage
of American Lodges .
1855 . Paris, by Grand Orient of France .
1859 . Chicago . 	A volunteer assemblage .
1875 . Lausanne . A convention of the Su-
preme Councils of the Scottish Rite of the
World, which subsequently led to an eternal
bond of unity both offensive and defensive .
Conversation . 	Conversation among the
brethren during Lodge hours is forbidden by
the Charges of 1722 in these words : "You are
not to hold private committees or separate
conversation without leave from the Master ."
(Constitutions, 1723, p . 53 .)
Convocation . 	The meetings of Chapters
of Royal Arch Masons are so called from the
Latin convocatio, a calling together . It seems
very properly to refer to the convoking of the
dispersed Masons at Jerusalem to rebuild the
second Temple, of which every Chapter is a
representation .
Convocation, Grand . 	The meeting of a
Grand Chapter is so styled .
Cooke's Manuscript . 	The old document
commonly known among Masonic scholars
CORNER-STONE
as Matthew Cooke's Manuscript, because it
was first given to the public by that distin-
guished Brother, was published by him, in
1861, from the original in the British Museum,
which institution purchased it, on the 14th of
October, 1859, from Mrs . Caroline Baker .
It was also published in facsimile by the
Quatuor Coronati Lodge, No . 2076, London,
in 1890 . Its principal value is derived from the
fact, as Bro . Cooke remarks, that until its
appearance "there was no prose work of such
undoubted antiquity known to be in existence
on the subject ."
Bro . Cooke gives the following account
of the MS . in his preface to its republication :
"By permission of the Trustees of the Brit-
ish Museum, the following little work has been
allowed to be copied and published in its en-
tire form . The original is to be found among
the additional manuscripts in that national
collection, and is numbered 23,198 .
"Judging from the character of the hand-
writing and the form of contractions employed
by the scribe, it was most probably written
in the latter portion of the fifteenth century,
and may be considered a very clear specimen
of the penmanship of that period .
"By whom or for whom it was originally
penned there is no means of ascertaining ; but
from the style, it may be conjectured to have
belonged to some Master of the Craft, and to
have been used in assemblies of Masons as a
text-book of the traditional history and laws
of the Fraternity ."
Cope-Stone . See Cape-Stone .
Cord, Hindu Sacred . See Zennaar .
Cord, Silver . 	See Silver Cord .
Cord, Threefold . 	See Threefold Cord .
Cordon . 	The Masonic decoration, which
in English is called the collar, is styled by the
French Masons the cordon .
Corinthian Order . 	This is the lightest
and most ornamental of the pure orders, and
possesses the highest degree of richness and
detail that architecture attained under the
Greeks . Its capital is its great distinction, and
is richly adorned with leaves of acanthus,
olive, etc ., and other ornaments . The column
of Beauty which supports the Lodge is of the
Corinthian order, and its appropriate situation
and symbolic officer are in the South .
Corner, 	Northeast . 	See 	Northeast
Corner .
Corner-Stone, Symbolism of the . The
corner-stone is the stone which lies at the
corner of two walls and forms the corner of
the foundation of an edifice . In Masonic
buildings it is now always placed in the North-
east ; but this rule was not always formerly
observed . As the foundation on which the
entire structure is supposed to rest it is con-
sidered by Operative Masons as the most im-
portant stone in the edifice . It is laid with
impressive ceremonies ; the assistance of
Speculative Masons is often, and ought al-
ways to be, invited to give dignity to the oc-
casion ; and for this purpose Freemasonry has
provided an especial ritual which is to govern
the proper performance of that duty .

CORNER-STONE
Among the ancients the corner-stone of
important edifices was laid with impressive
ceremonies . These are well described by Tac-
itus in the history of the rebuilding of the Cap-
itol. 	After detailing the preliminary cere-
monies, which consisted of a procession of
vestals, who with chaplets of flowers encom-
passed the ground and consecrated it by liba-
tions of living water, he adds that, after sol-
emn prayer, Helvidius Priscus, to whom the
care of rebuilding the Capitol had been com-
mitted, "laid his hand upon the fillets that
adorned the foundation stone, and also the
cords by which it was to be drawn to its place .
In that instant the magistrates, the priests,
the senators, the Roman knights, and a num-
ber of citizens, all acting with one effort and
general demonstrations of joy, laid hold of the
ropes and dragged the ponderous load to its
destined spot . They then threw in ingots of
gold and silver, and other metals which had
never been melted in the furnace, but still
retained, untouched by human art, their first
formation in the bowels of the earth ." (His-
tories, iv ., 53 .)
The symbolism of the corner-stone when •
duly laid with Masonicerites is full of signifi-
cance, which refers to its form, to its situation,
to its permanence, and to its consecration .
As to its form, it must be perfectly square
on its surfaces, and in its solid contents a
cube . Now the square is a symbol of morality,
and the cube, of truth . In its situation it lies
between the north, the place of darkness, and
the east, the place of light ; and hence this po-
sition symbolizes the Masonic progress from
darkness to light, and from ignorance to knowl-
edge . The permanence and durability of the
corner-stone, which lasts long after the build-
ing in whose foundation it was placed has
fallen into decay, is intended to remind the
Mason that, when this earthly house of his
tabernacle shall have passed away, he has
within him a sure foundation of eternal life-a
corner-stone of immortality-an emanation
from that Divine Spirit which pervades all
nature, and which, therefore, must survive
the tomb, and rise, triumphant and eternal,
above the decaying dust of death and the
grave .
The stone, when deposited in its appropriate
place, is carefully examined with the neces-
sary implements of Operative Masonry-the
square, the level, and the plumb, themselves
all symbolic in meaning-and is then declared
to be "well formed, true, and trusty ." Thus
the Mason is taught that his virtues are to be
tested by temptation and trial, by suffering
and adversity, before they can be pronounced
by the Master Builder of souls to be materials
worthy of the spiritual building of eternal life,
fitted, "as living stones, for that house not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens ."
And lastly, in the ceremony of depositing
the corner-stone, the elements of Masonic
consecration are produced, and the stone is
solemnly set apart by pouring corn, wine, and
oil upon its surface, emblematic of the Nour-
ishment, Refreshment, and Joy which are to
CORNUCOPIA 	179
be the rewards of a faithful performance of
duty .
The corner-stone does not appear to have
been adopted by any of the heathen nations,
but to have been as the eben pinah, peculiar
to the Jews, from whom it descended to the
Christians . In the Old Testament, it seems
always to have denoted a prince or high per-
sonage, and hence the Evangelists constantly
use it in reference to Christ, who is called the
"chief corner-stone ." In Masonic symbolism,
it signifies a true Mason, and therefore it is
the first character which the Apprentice is
made to represent after his initiation has been
completed .
Corn of Nourishment . 	One of the three
elements of Masonic consecration . (See Corn,
Wine, and Oil .)
Corn, Wine, and Off . 	Corn, wine, and
oil are the Masonic elements of consecration .
The adoption of these symbols is supported by
the highest antiquity . 	Corn, wine, and oil
were the most important productions of East-
ern countries ; they constituted the wealth of
the people, and were esteemed as the supports
of life and the means of refreshment . David
enumerates them among the greatest blessings
that we enjoy, and speaks of them as "wine
that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil
to make his face to shine, and bread which
strengtheneth man's heart ." (Ps . civ . 15 .) In
devoting anything to religious purposes, the
anointing with oil was considered as a neces-
sary part of the ceremony, a rite which has
descended to Christian nations . The taber-
nacle in the wilderness, and all its holy vessels
were, by God's express command, anointed
with oil ; Aaron ands two sons were set apart
for the priesthood with the same ceremony ;
and the prophets and kings of Israel were con-
secrated to their offices by the same rite .
Hence, Freemasons' Lodges, which are but
temples to the Most High, are consecrated
to the sacred purposes for which they were
built by strewing corn, wine, and oil upon the
"Lodge," the emblem of the Holy Ark . Thus
does this mystic ceremony instruct us to be
nourished with the hidden manna of right-
eousness, to be refreshed with the Word of the
Lord, and to rejoice with joy unspeakable in
the riches of divine grace . 	"Wherefore, my
brethren," says the venerable Harris (Disc .,
iv ., 81), "wherefore do you carry corn, wine,
and oil in your processions, but to remind you
that in the pilgrimage of human life you are to
impart a portion of your bread to feed the
hungry, to send a cup of your wine to cheer the
sorrowful, and to pour the healing oil of your
consolation into the wounds which sickness
hath made in the bodies, or affliction rent in
the hearts, of your fellow-travellers?"
In processions, the corn alone is carried in a
golden pitcher, the wine and oil are placed in
silver vessels, and this is to remind us that the
first, as a necessity and the "staff of life," is of
more importance and more worthy of honor
than the others, which are but comforts .
Cornucopia . 	The horn of plenty . 	The
old Pagani myth tells us that Zeus was nour-

180 	CORONET
ished during his infancy in Crete by the daugh-
ters of Melissus, with the milk of the goat
Amalthea . Zeus, when he came to the empire
of the world, in gratitude placed Amalthea in
the heavens as a constellation, and gave one of
her horns to his nurses, with the assurance
that it should furnish them with a never-failing
supply of whatever they might desire . Hence
it is a symbol of abundance, and as such has
been adopted as . the jewel of the Stewards of a
Lodge, to remind them that it is their duty to
see that the tables are properly furnished at
refreshment, and that every brother is suitably
provided for . Among the deities whose images
are to be found in the ancient Temples at
Elora, in Hindustau, is the goddess Ana
Puma, whose name is compounded of Ana,
signifying corn, and Puma, meaning plenty .
She holds a corn measure in her band, and the
whole therefore very clearly has the same allu-
sion as the Masonic Horn of plenty .
Coronet, Ducal . (Italian, Coronetta .) An
inferior crown worn by noblemen ; that of a
British duke is adorned
with strawberry leaves ;
that of a marquis has
leaves with pearls inter-
posed ; that of an earl
has the pearls above the
leaves ; that of a vis-
count is surrounded with
pearls only ; that of a
baron has only four
pearls . The ducal coronet is a prominent
symbol in the Thirty-third Degree of the
A . A . Scottish Rite .
Correspondence . 	See Committee on For-
eign Correspondence .
Corresponding Grand Secretary . 	An
officer of a Grand Lodge to whom was formerly
entrusted, in some Grand Lodges, the Foreign
Correspondence of the body . The office is
now disused, being retained only in the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts .
Corybantes, Mysteries of . 	Rites insti-
tuted in Phrygia in honor of Atys, the lover of
Cybele . The goddess was supposed first to
bewail the death of her lover, and afterward
to rejoice for his restoration to life . The cere-
monies were a scenical representation of this
alternate lamentation and rejoicing, and of
the sufferings of Atys, who was placed in an
ark or coffin during the mournful part of the
orgies . If the description of these rites, given
by Sainte-Croix from various ancient authori-
ties, be correct, they were but a modification
of the Eleusinian mysteries .
Cosmist . 	A religious faith of late rec-
'tion having for its motto, "Deeds, not
eeds,' ; and for its principle the service of
humanity is the supreme duty . The design of
Cosmism is to join all men and women into one
family, in which the principle of equality, to-
gether with that of brotherly love (that is,
love of the human race), is the predominant
one, and the moral and material welfare of all
the sole aim and purpose .
The Cosmists are enjoined to act as follows :
To give one another encouragement and aid,
COUNCIL
both material and moral ; to cultivate all their
faculties ; to contemplate all mankind as
brethren ; to be courteous and forbearing to
each and all ; to practise charity without pub-
licity or ostentation .
Freemasonry is an intensely theistical insti-
tution ; but its principles could scarcely be
better expressed than those above enumer-
ated as the foundation of the Cosmistic faith ;
more especially in the motto, "Deeds, not
Creeds .'
There is an observable difference between
Cosmists and Secularists, Collectivists and
Positivists .
Cosmopolite . 	The Third Degree of the
Second Temple of the Rite of African Archi-
tects (q . v .) .
Council . 	In several of the high degrees of
Masonry the meetings are styled Councils ; as,
a Council of Royal and Select Masters, or
Princes of Jerusalem, or Companions of the
Red Cross .
Council Chamber . 	A part of the room in
which the ceremonies of the Companions of
the Red Cross are performed .
Council, Grand . 	See Grand Council .
Council of Allied Masonic Degrees . 	An
organization formed in England in 1880 to
embosom, protect, and promulgate all side
degrees of a Masonic or other secret character,
and those otherwise unclaimed that may ap-
pear as waifs . The central organization is
termed the "Grand Council of Allied Masonic
Degrees ."
Council of Companions of the Red
Cross . 	A body in which the First Degree of
the Templar system in this country is con-
ferred . It is held under the Charter of a Com-
mandery of Knights Templar, which, when
meeting as a council, is composed of the fol-
lowing officers : A Sovereign Master, Chan-
cellor, Master of the Palace, Prelate, Master
of Despatches, Master of Cavalry, Master
of Infantry, Standard-Bearer, Sword-Bearer,
Warder, and Sentinel .
Council of Royal and Select Masters .
The united body in which the Royal and Se-
lect degrees are conferred . In some jurisdic-
tions this Council confers also the degree of
Super-Excellent Master .
Council of Royal Masters . 	The body in
which the degree of Royal Master, the eighth
in the American Rite, is conferred . It receives
its Charter from a Grand Council of Royal
and Select Masters, and has the following
officers : Thrice Illustrious Grand Master,
Illustrious Hiram of Tyre, Principal Conductor
of the Works, Master of the Exchequer, Mas-
ter of Finances, Captain of the Guards, Con-
ductor of the Council, and Steward .
Council of Select Masters . 	The body in
which the degree of Select Masters, the ninth
in the American Rite, is conferred . It receives
its Charter from a Grand Council of Royal
and Select Masters . Its officers are : Thrice
Illustrious Grand Master, Illustrious Hiram
of Tyre, Principal Conductor of the Works,
Treasurer, Recorder, Captain of the Guards,
Conductor of the Council, and Steward .

COUNCIL
Council of the Trinity . An independent
Masonic jurisdiction, in which are conferred
the degrees of Knight of the Christian Mark,
and Guard of the Conclave, Knight of the
Holy Sepulcher, and the Holy and Thrice Il-
lustrious Order of the Cross . They are con-
ferred after the Encampment degrees . 	They
are Christian degrees, and refer to the cruci-
fixion .
Council, Supreme . 	See Supreme Coun-
cil .
Courtesy . 	Politeness of manners, as the
result of kindness of disposition, was one of
the peculiar characteristics of the knights of
old . "No other human laws enforced," says
M . de St . Palaye, "as chivalry did, sweetness
and modesty of temper, and that politeness
which the word courtesy was meant perfectly
to express ." We find, therefore, in the ritual
of Templarism, the phrase "a true and cour-
teous knight" ; and Knights Templars are in
the habit of closing their letters to each other
with the expression, Yours in all knightly
courtesy . Courtesy is also a Masonic virtue,
because it is the product of a feeling of kind-
ness ; but it is not so specifically spoken of in
the symbolic degrees, where brotherly love as-
sumes its place, as it is in the orders of knight-
hood .
Coustos, John . 	The sufferings infected,
in 1743, by the Inquisition at Lisbon, on John
Coustos, a Freemason, and the Master of a
Lodge in that city ; and the fortitude with
which he endured the severest tortures, rather
than betray his trusts and reveal the secrets
that had been confided to him, constitute an
interesting episode in the history of Freema-
sonry . Coustos, after returning to England,
published, in 1746, a book, detailing his suffer-
ings, from which the reader is presented with
the following abridged narrative .
John Coustos was born at Berne in Switzer-
land, but emigrated in 1716, with 6 father to
England, where he became a naturalized sub-
ject . In 1743 he removed to Lisbon, in Portu-
gal, and began the practise of his profession,
which was that of a lapidary, or dealer in pre-
cious stones .
In consequence of the bull or edict of Pope
Clement XII . denouncing the Masonic insti-
tution, the Lodges at Lisbon were not held at
public houses, as was the custom in England
and other Protestant countries, but privately,
at the residences of the members . Of one of
these Lodges, Coustos, who was a zealous
Mason, was elected the Master . 	A female,
who was cognizant of the existence of the
Lodge over which Coustos presided, revealed
the circumstance to her confessor, declaring
that, in her opinion, the members were "mon-
sters in nature, who perpetrated 	the most
shocking crimes ." In consequence of this in-
formation, it was resolved, by the Inquisition,
that Coustos should be arrested and subjected
to the tender mercies of the "Holy Office ."
He was accordingly seized, a few nights after-
ward, in a coffee-house-the public pretense
of the arrest being that he was privy to the
stealing of a diamond, of which they had
COUSTOS 	181
falsely accused another jeweler, the friend and
Warden of Coustos, whom also they had a
short time previously arrested .
Coustos was then carried to the prison
of the Inquisition, and after having been
searched and deprived of all his money,
papers, and other things that he had about
him , he was led to a lonely dungeon, in which
he was immured, being expressly forbidden to
speak aloud or knock against the walls, but if
he iequired anything, to beat with a padlock
that hung on the outward door, and which he
could reach b ay thrusting his arm through the
iron grate . ' It was there," says he, "that,
struck with the horrors of a place of which I
had heard and read such baleful descriptions,
I plunged at once into the blackest melan-
choly ; especially when I reflected on the dire
consequences with which my confinement
might very possibly be attended ."
On the next day he was led, bareheaded,
before the President and four Inquisitors, who,
after having made him reply on oath to sev-
eral questions respecting his name, his parent-
age, his place of birth, his religion, and the
time he had resided in Lisbon, exhorted him to
make a full confession of all the crimes he had
ever committed in the whole course of his life ;
but, as be refused to make any such confession,
declaring that from his infancy, he had been
taught to confess not to man but to God, he
was again remanded to his dungeon .
Three days after, be was again brought be-
fore the Inquisitors, and the examination was
renewed . This was the first occasion on which
the subject of Freemasonry was introduced
and there Coustos for the first time learned
that he had been arrested and imprisoned
solely on account of his connection with the
forbidden Institution .
The result of this conference was that
Coustos was conveyed to a deeper dungeon,
and kept there in close confinement for sev-
eral weeks, during which period he was taken
three times before the Inquisitors . In the first
of these examinations they again introduced
the subject of Freemasonry, and declared that
if the Institution was as virtuous as their
prisoner contended that it was, there was
no occasion for concealing so industriously the
secrets of it . 	Coustos did not reply to this
objection to the Inquisitorial satisfaction,
and he was remanded back to his dungeon,
where a few days after he fell sick .
After his recovery, he was again taken be-
fore the Inquisitors, who asked him several
new questions with regard to the tenets of
Freemasonry-among others, whether he,
since his abode in Lisbon, had received any
Portuguese into the society? He replied that
he had not .
When he was next brought before them,
"they insisted," he says, "upon my letting
them into the secrets of Freemasonry ; threat-
ening me in case I did not comply ." 	But
Coustos Armly and fearlessly refused to vio-
late his obligations .
After several other interviews, in which the
effort was unavailingly made to extort from

182 	COUSTOS
him a renunciation of Masonry, he was sub-
jected to the torture, of which he gives the fol-
lowing account :
"I was instantly conveyed to the torture-
room, built in form of a square tower, where no
light appeared but what two candles gave ;
and to prevent the dreadful cries and shocking
groans of the unhappy victims from reaching
the ears of the other prisoners, the doors are
lined with a sort of quilt .
"The reader will naturally suppose that I
must be seized with horror, when, at my enter-
ing this infernal place, I saw myself, on a sud-
den, surrounded by six wretches, who, after
preparing the tortures, stripped me naked,
(all to linen drawers,) when, laying me on my
back, they began to lay hold of every part of
my body . First, they put round my neck an
iron collar, which was fastened to the scaffold ;
they then fixed a ring to each foot ; and this
being done, they stretched my limbs with all
their might . 	They next wound two ropes
round each arm, and two round each thigh,
which ropes passed under the scaffold, through
holes made for that purpose, and were all
drawn tight at the same time, by four men,
upon a signal made for this purpose .
"The reader will believe that my pains must
be intolerable, when I solemnly declare that
these ropes, which were of the size of one's
little finger, pierced through my flesh quite to
the bone, making the blood gush out at eight
different places that were thus bound . As I
persisted in refusing to discover any more than
what has been seen in the interrogatories
above, the ropes were thus drawn together
four different times . At my side stood a phy-
sician and a surgeon, who often felt my tem-
ples, to judge of the danger I might be in-by
which means my tortures were suspended, at
intervals, that I might have an opportunity
of recovering myself a little .
"Whilst I was thus suffering, they were so
barbarously unjust as to declare, that, were I
to die under the torture, I should be guilty, by
my obstinacy, of self-murder . In fine, the last
time the ropes were drawn tight, I grew so
exceedingly weak, occasioned by the blood's
circulation being stopped, and the pains I
endured, that I fainted quite away ; insomuch
that I was carried back to my dungeon, with-
out perceiving it .
"These barbarians, finding that the tortures
above described could not extort any further
discovery from me ; but that, the more they
made me suffer, the more fervently I addressed
my supplications, for patience, to heaven ;
they were so inhuman, six weeks after, as to
expose me to another kind of torture, more
grievous, if possible, than the former . They
made me stretch my arms in such a manner
that the palms of my hands were turned out-
ward ; when, by the help of a rope that fast-
ened them together at the wrist, and which
they turned by an engine, they drew them
gently nearer to one another behind, in such a
manner that the back of each hand touched,
and stood exactly parallel one to another ;
whereby both my shoulders were dislocated,
COUVRIR
c
and a considerable quantity of blood issued
from my mouth . This torture was repeated
thrice ; after which I was again taken to my
dungeon, and put into the hands of 	hysi-
ians and surgeons, who, in setting my b ones,
put me to exquisite pain .
"Two months after, being a little recovered
I was again conveyed to the torture-room, and
there made to undergo another kind of pun-
ishment twice . The reader may judge of its
horror, from the following description thereof .
"The torturers turned twice around my
body a thick iron chain, which, crossing upon
my stomach, terminated afterwards at my
wrists . They next set my back against a thick
board, at each extremity whereof was a pulley,
through which there ran a rope, that catched
the ends of the chains at my wrists . The tor-
mentors then stretched these ropes, by means
of a roller, pressed or bruised my stomach, in
proportion as the means were drawn tighter .
They tortured me on this occasion to such a
degree, that my wrists and shoulders were put
out of joint .
F
"The surgeons, however, set them pres-
ently after ; but the barbarians not yet having
satiated their cruelty, made me undergo this
torture a second time, which I did with fresh
sins, though with equal constancy and reso-
ution. I was then remanded back to my dun-
geon, attended by the surgeons, who dressed
by bruises ; and here I continued until their
auto-da fe, or gaol delivery ."
On that occasion, he was sentenced to work
at the galleys for four years . Soon, however,
after he had commenced the degrading occu-
pation of a galley slave, the injuries which he
had received during his inquisitorial tortures
having so much impaired his health, that he
was unable to undergo the toils to which he
had been condemned, he was sent to the in-
firmary, where he remained until October,
1744, when he was released upon the demand
of the British minister, as a subject to the King
of England . He was, however, ordered to
leave the country . This, it may be supposed,
he gladly did, and repaired to London, where
he published the account of his sufferings in a
book entitled The Sufferings of John Coustos
forFreemasonry, and for refusing to turn Roman
Catholic, in the Inquisition at Lisbon, etc ., etc .
London, 1746 ; 8vo, 400 pages . (Reprinted at
Birmingham, 1790 .) Such a narrative is well
worthy of being read . John Coustos has not,
by his literary researches, added anything to
the learning or science of our Order ; yet, by
his fortitude and fidelity under the severest
sufferings, inflicted to extort from him a
knowledge he was bound to conceal, he has
shown that Freemasonry makes no idle boast
in declaring that its secrets "are locked up in
the depository of faithful breasts ."
Couvreur . 	The title of an officer in a
French Lodge, equivalent to the English Tiler .
Couvrir le Temple . 	A French expression
for the English one to close the Lodge . But it
has also another signification . "To cover the
Temple to a brother," means, in French Ma-
sonic language, to exclude him from the Lodge .

COVENANT
Covenant of Masonry . 	As a covenant is
defined to be a contract or agreement between
two or more parties on certain terms, there
can be no doubt that when a man is made a
Mason he enters into a covenant with the In-
stitution . On his part he promises to fulfil
certain promises, and to discharge certain
duties, for which, on the other part, the Fra-
ternity bind themselves by an equivalent
covenant of friendship, protection, and sup-
port . This covenant must of course be re-
peated and modified with every extension of
the terms of agreement on both sides . The
covenant of an Entered Apprentice is differ-
ent from that of a Fellow-Craft, and the
covenant of the latter from that of a Master
Mason . As we advance in Masonry our obli-
gations increase, but the covenant of each
degree is not the less permanent or binding be-
cause that of a succeeding one has been super-
added . The second covenant does not impair
the sanctity of the first .
This covenant of Masonry is symbolized
and sanctioned by the most important and
essential of all the ceremonies of the Institu-
tion . It is the very foundation-stone which
supports the whole edifice, and, unless it be
properly laid, no superstructure can with any
safety be erected . It is indeed the covenant
that makes the Mason .
A matter so important as this, in estab-
lishing the relationship of a Mason with the
Craft-this baptism, so to speak, by which a
member is inaugurated into the Institution-
must of course be attended with the most
solemn and binding ceremonies . Such has
been the case in all countries . Covenants have
always been solemnized with certain solemn
forms and religious observances which gave
them a sacred sanction in the minds of the
contracting parties . The Hebrews, especially,
invested their covenants with the most impos-
ing ceremonies .
The first mention of a covenant in form that
is met with in Scripture is that recorded in the
fifteenth chapter of Genesis, where, to confirm
it, Abraham, in obedience to the Divine com-
mand, took a heifer, a she-goat, and a ram,
"and divided them in the midst, and laid each
piece one against another ." (v . 10 .) This di-
viding a victim into two parts, that the cov-
enanting parties might pass between them,
was a custom not confined to the Hebrews,
but borrowed from them by all the heathen
nations .
In the Book of Jeremiah it is again alluded
to, and the penalty for the violation of the
covenant is also expressed .
"And I will give the men that have trans-
gressed my covenant, which have not per-
formed the words of the covenant which they
had made before me, when they cut the calf in
twain, and passed between the parts thereof,
"The princes of Judah, and the princes of
Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and
all the people of the land, which passed be-
tween the parts of the calf ;
"I will even give them into the hand of their
enemies, and into the hand of them that seek
COWAN 	183
their life : and their dead bodies shall be for
meat unto the fowls of the heaven, and to the
beasts of the earth ." 	(Jeremiah xxxiv . 18, 19,
20 .)
These ceremonies, thus briefly glluded to
in the passages which have been quoted, were
performed in full, as follows . The attentive
Masonic student will not fail to observe the
analogies to those of his own Order .
The parties entering into a covenant first
selected a proper animal, such as a calf or a
kid among the Jews, a sheep among the
Greeks, or a pig among the Romans . The
throat was then cut across, with a single blow,
so as to completely divide the windpipe and
arteries, without touching the bone . This was
the first ceremony of the covenant . The see-
end was to tear open the breast, to take from
thence the heart and vitals, and if on inspec-
tion the least imperfection was discovered,
the body was considered unclean, and thrown
aside for another . The third ceremony was to
divide the body in twain, and to place the
two parts to the north and south, so that the
parties to the covenant might pass between
them, coming from the east and going to the
west . The carcass was then left as a prey to
the wild beasts of the field and the vultures of
the air, and thus the covenant was ratified .
Covering of the Lodge . As the lectures
tell us that our ancient brethren met on the
highest hills and lowest vales, from this it is
inferred that, as the meetings were thus in the
open air, the only covering must have been
the overarching vault of heaven . Hence, in
the symbolism of Masonry the covering of the
Lodge is said to be "a clouded canopy or starry-
decked heaven ." The terrestrial Lodge of
labor is thus intimately connected with the
celestial Lodge of eternal refreshment . The
symbolism is still further extended to remind
us that the whole world is a Mason's Lodge,
and heaven its sheltering cover .
Cowan . 	This is a purely Masonic term,
and signifies in its technical meaning an in-
truder, whence it is always coupled with the
word eavesdropper . It is not found in any of
the old manuscripts of the English Masons
anterior to the eighteenth century, unless we
suppose that lowen, met with in many of them,
is a clerical error of the copyists . It occurs in
the Schaw manuscript, a Scotch record which
bears the date of 1598, in the following pas-
sage : "That no Master or Fellow of Craft re-
ceive any cowans to work in his society or
company, nor send none of his servants to
work with cowans ." 	In the second edition of
Anderson's Constitutions, published in 1738,
we find the word in use among the English
Masons, thus : "But Free and Accepted
Masons shall not allow cowans to work with
them ; nor shall they be employed by cowans
without an urgent necessity ; and even in that
case .they must not teach cowans, but must
have a separate communication ." (P . 146 .)
There can be but little doubt that the word, as
a Masonic term, comes to us from Scotland,
and it is therefore in the Scotch language that
we must look for its signification .

184 	CRAFT
Now, Jamieson, in his Scottish Dictiona ry ,
gives us the following meanings of the word :
"CownN, s . 1 . 	A term of contempt ; ap-
plied to one who does the work of a Mason,
but has not been regularly bred .
"2 . Also used to denote one who builds dry
walls, otherwise denominated a dry-diker .
"3 . One unacquainted with the secrets of
Freemasonry ."
And he gives the following examples as his
authorities :
"`A boat-carpenter, joiner, 	cowan 	(or
builder of stone without mortar), get 18 . at
the minimum and good maintenance .' 	P .
Morven, Argyles . Statistic . Acct . ! X ., 267 . N .
"`Cowans . 	Masons who build dry-stone
dikes or walls .' P . Halkirk, Carthn . Statistic .
Acct ., XIX ., 24 . N ."
In the Rob Roy of Scott, the word is used by
Allan Inverach, who says :
"She does not value a Cawmil mair as a
cowan ."
The word has therefore, I think, come to
the English Fraternity directly from the Oper-
ative Masons of Scotland, among whom it
was used to denote a pretender, in the exact
sense of the first meaning of Jamieson .
There is no word that has given Masonic
scholars more trouble than this in tracing its
derivation . By some it has been considered to
come from the Greek ec4wv, kuon a dog ; and
referred to the fact that in the early ages of the
Church, when the mysteries of the new relig-
ion were communicated only to initiates under
the veil of secrecy, infidels were called "dogs,"
a term probably suggested by such passages
as Matthew vii . 6, "Give not that which is
holy unto the dogs" ; or, Philip . iii . 2, "Beware
of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the
concision ." This derivation has been adopted
by Oliver, and many other writers . Jamie-
son's derivations are from the old Swedish
kujon, kuzhjohn, a silly fellow, and the French
coion, coyon, a coward, a base fellow . No
matter how we get the word, it seems always
to convey an idea of contempt . The attempt
to derive it from the chouans of the French Rev-
olution is manifestly absurd, for it has been
shown that the word was in use long before
the French Revolution was even meditated .
[Dr . Murray in the New En~lish Dictionary
says that the derivation of the word is un-
known .-E . L . H .]
Craft . It is from the Saxon craft, which
indirectly signifies skill or dexterity in any
art . In reference to this skill, therefore, the
ordinary acceptation is a trade or mechanical
art, and collectively, the rsons practg it .
Hence, "the raft" in Speculative Masonry,
signifies the whole 'body of Freemasons, wher-
ever dispersed .
Craft Masonry, Ancient . 	See Ancient
Craft Masonry .
Craft Statistics . 	See Statistics of Craft
Masonry .
Crafted . 	A word sometimes colloquially
used, instead of the Lodge term "passed," to
designate the advancement of a candidate to
the Second Degree .
CREED
Craftsman . 	A Mason . The word orig-
inally meant anyone skilful in his art, and is
so used by our early writers . Thus Chaucer,
in his Knights' Tale, v . 1897, says :
"For in the land there was no craftesman,
That geometry or arsmetrike can,
Nor pourtrayor, nor carver of images,
That Theseus ne gave him meat and wages .
The theatre to make and to devise ."
Crata Repoa . 	See Egyptian Priests, In-
itiations of the .
Create. In chivalry when anyone re-
ceived the order of knighthood, he was said
to be created a knight . The word "dub" had
also the same meaning . The word created is
used in Commanderies of Knights Templar to
denote the elevation of a candidate to that
degree . (See Dub .)
Creation . 	Preston (Illust ., B . I . Sect . 3)
says : "From the commencement of the world,
we may trace the foundation of Masonry .
Ever since symmetry began, and harmony dis-
played her charms, our Order has had a
being ." Language like this has been deemed
extravagant, and justly, too, if the words are
to be taken in their literal sense . The idea
that the Order of Masonry is coeval with the
creation is so absurd that the pretension can-
not need refutation . But the fact is, that An-
derson, Preston, and other writers who have
indulged in such statements, did not mean by
the word Masonry anything like an organized
Order or Institution bearing any resemblance
to the Freemasonry of the present day . They
simply meant to indicate that the great moral
principles on which Freemasonry is founded,
and by which it professes to be guided, have
always formed a part of the Divine govern-
ment and been presented to man from his first
creation for his acceptance . The words quoted
from Preston are unwise, because they are li-
able to misconstruction . But the symbolic
idea which they intended to convey, namely,
that Masonry is truth, and that truth is co-
existent with man's creation, is correct, and
cannot be disputed .
Creed, A Mason's . Although Freemasonry
is not a dogmatic theology, and is tolerant in
the admission of men of every religious faith, it
would be wrong to suppose that it is without a
creed . On the contrary it has a creed, the
assent to which it rigidly enforces, and the
denial of which is absolutely incompatible
with membership in the Order . This creed
consists of two articles : First, a belief in God,
the Creator of all things, who is therefore
recognized as the Great Architect of the Uni-
verse ; and secondly, a belief in the eternal
life, to which this present life is but a prepara-
tory and probationary state . To the first of
these articles assent is explicitly required as
soon as the threshold of the Lge is crossed .
The second is expressively taught by legends
and symbols, and must be implicitly assented
to by every Mason, ~especially by those who
have received the Third Degree, which is alto-
gether founded on the doctrine of the resur-
rection to a second life.

CRESSET
At the revival of Masonry in 1717, the
Grand Lodge of England set forth the law, as
to the religious creed to be rewired of a
Mason, in the following words, to 	found in
the Charges approved by that body .
"In ancient times, Masons were charged
in every country to be of the religion of that
country or nation, whatever it was ; yet it
is now thought more expedient
only to oblige them to that relig-
ion in which all men agree, leav-
ing their particular opinions to
themselves ." (Constitutions, 1723,
P . 50 .)
This is now considered univer-
sally as the recognized law on
the subject .
Cresset . 	An open lamp
formerly having a cross-piece
filled with combustible material
such as naphtha, and recognized
as the symbol of Light and
Truth .
Creuzer, Georg Friederich . 	George
Frederick Creuzer, who was born in Germany
in 1771 and was a professor at the University
of Heidelberg, devoted himself to the study of
the ancient religions, and, with profound learn-
ing, established a peculiar system on the sub-
ject . His theory was, that the religion and
mythology of the ancient Greeks were bor-
rowed from a far more ancient people-a body
of priests coming from the East-who received
them as a revelation . The myths and tradi-
tions of this ancient people were adopted by
Hesiod, Homer, and the later poets, although
not without some misunderstanding of them ;
and they were finally preserved in the Mys-
teries, and became subjects of investigation
for the philosophers . This theory Creuzer has
developed in his most important work, en-
titled Symbolik and Arehaologie der alters
Volker, besonders der Griechen, which was pub-
lished at Leipsic in 1819-21 . There is no
translation of this work into English ; but
Guigniaut published at Paris, in 1829, a
paraphrastic translation of it, under the title
of Religions de l'AntiquitE eonsiderees prin-
cipalement dane leur Formes Symboliques et
Mythologiques . Creuzer's views throw much
light on the symbolic history of Freemasonry .
He died in 1858 .
Crimes, Masonie . 	In Masonry, every of-
fense is a crime, because, in every violation of
a Masonic law there is not only sometimes an
infringement of the rights of an individual, but
always, superinduced upon this, a breach and
violation of public rights and duties, which
affect the whole community of the Order con-
sidered as a community .
The first class of crimes which are laid down
in the Constitutions, as rendering their per-
petrators liable to Masonic jurisdiction, are
offenses against the moral law . 	"Every
Mason," say the Old Charges of 1722, "is
obliged by his tenure to obey the moral law ."
The same charge continues the precept by as-
serting, that if he rightly understands the art,
he will never be a stupid atheist, nor an irre-
CROMLECH 	185
ligious libertine . Atheism, therefore, which
is a rejection of a supreme, superintending
Creator, and irreligious libertinism, which in
the language of that day, signified a denim of
all moral responsibility, are offensesagainst
the moral law, because they deny its validity
and contemn its sanctions ; and hence they are
to be classed as Masonic crimes .
Again : the moral law inculcates love of
God, love of our neighbor, and duty to our-
selves . Each of these embraces other inci-
dental duties which are obligatory on every
Mason, and the violation of any one of which
constitutes a Masonic crime .
The love of God implies that we should
abstain from all profanity and irreverent use
of his name . Universal benevolence is the nec-
essary result of love of our neighbor . Cruelty
to one's inferiors and dependents, uncharita-
bleness to the poor and needy, and a general
misanthropical neglect of our duty as men to
our fellow-beings, exhibiting itself in extreme
selfishness and indifference to the comfort or
happiness of all others, are offenses against
the moral law, and therefore Masonic crimes .
Next to violations of the moral law, in the
category of Masonic crimes, are to be consid-
ered the transgressions of the municipal law, or
the law of the land . Obedience to constituted
authority is one of the first duties which is
impressed upon the mind of the candidate
and hence he who transgresses the laws of
the government under which he lives vio-
lates the teachings of the Order, and is guilty
of a Masonic crime . But the Order will take
no cognizance of ecclesiastical or political of-
fenses . And this arises from the very nature of
the society, which eschews all controversies
about national religion or state policy . Hence
apostasy, heresy, and schisms, although con-
sidered in some governments as heinous of-
fenses, and subject to severe punishment, are
not viewed as Masonic crimes . Lastly, viola-
tions of the Landmarks and Regulations of
the Order are Masonic crimes . Thus, disclos-
ure of any of the secrets which a Mason has
promised to conceal ; disobedience and want of
respect to Masonic superiors ; the bringing of
"private piques or quarrels" into the Lge ;
want of courtesy and kindness to the breth-
ren ; speaking calumniously of a Mason be-
bind his back, or in any other way attempting
to injure him, as by striking him except in
self-defense, or violating his domestic honor,
is each a crime in Masonry . Indeed, whatever
is a violation of fidelity to solemn engagements,
a neglect of prescribed duties, or a transgres-
sion of the cardinal principles of friendship,
morality, and brotherly love, is a Masonic
crime .
Crimson . 	(Crimoysin, O. Eng .) A deep-
red color tinged with blue, emblematical of
ferventy and zeal ; belonging to several de-
grees of the Scottish Rite as well as to the
Holy Royal Arch .
Cromlech . 	A large stone resting on two
or more stones, like a table . Cromlechs are
found in Brittany, Denmark, Germany, and
some other parts of Europe, and are sup-

186 	CROMWELL
posed to have been used in the Celtic Mys-
teries .
Cromwell . 	The Abb6 Larudan published
at Amsterdam, in 1746, a hook entitled Les
Francs-Magors Ecrases, of which Kioss says
(Bibliog . der Freimaurerei, No . 1874) that it is
the armory from which all the abuse of Free-
masonry by its enemies has been derived .
Larudan was the first to advance in this book
the theory that Oliver Cromwell was the
founder of Freemasonry . He says that Crom-
well established the Order for the furtherance
of his political designs ; adopting with this
view, as its governing principles, the doctrines
of liberty and equality, and bestowed upon its
members the title of Freemasons, because his
object was to engage them in the building of a
new edifice, that is to say, to reform the human
race by the extermination of kings and all
regal powers . He selected for this purpose the
design of rebuilding the Temple of Solomon .
This Temple, erected by Divine command, had
been the sanctuary of religion . After years of
glory and magnificence, it had been destroyed
by a formidable army . The people who there
worshiped had been conveyed to Babylon,
whence, after enduring a rigorous captiviy,
they had been permitted to return to Jerusalem
and rebuild the Temple . 	This history of the
Solomonic Temple Cromwell adopted, says
Larudan, as an allegory on which to found
his new Order . 	The Temple in its original
magnificence was man in his primeval state
of purity ; its destruction and the captivity
of its worshipers typified pride and ambi-
tion, which have abolished equality and in-
troduced dependence among men ; and the
Chaldean destroyers of the glorious edifice
are the kings who have trodden on an op-
pressed people .
It was, continues the Abbe, in the year
1648 that Cromwell, at an entertainment
given by him to some of his friends, proposed
to them, in guarded terms, the establishment
of a new society, which should secure a true
worship of God, and the deliverance of man
from oppression and tyranny. The proposi-
tion was received with unanimous favor ; and
a few days after, at a house in King Street,
and at six o'clock in the evening (for the Abbe
is particular as to time and place), the Order
of Freemasonry was organized, its degrees es-
tablished, its ceremonies and ritual prescribed,
and several of the adherents of the future
Protector initiated . The Institution was used
by Cromwell for the advancement of his
projects, for the union of the contending par-
ties in England, for the extirpation of the mon-
archy, and his own subsequent elevation to
supreme power . 	It extended from England
into other countries, but was always careful to
preserve the same doctrines of equality and
liberty among men, and opposition to all
monarchical government . Such is the theory
of the Abbe Larudan, who, although a bitter
enemy of Masonry, writes with seeming fair-
ness and mildness . But it is hardly necessary
to say that this theory of the origin of Free-
masonry finds no support either in the legends
CROSS
of the Institution, or in the authentic history
that is connected with its rise and rogress .
Crosier . 	The staff surmounted by a cross
carried before a bishop on occasions of solemn
ceremony . 	They are generally gilt, and made
light ; frequently of tin, and hollow . The pas-
toral staff has a circular head .
Cross . 	We can find no symbolism of the
cross in the primitive degrees of Ancient
Craft Masonry . It does not appear among
the symbols of the Apprentice, the Fellow-
Craft, the Master, or the Royal Arch . This is
undoubtedly to be attributed to the fact that
the cross was considered, by those who in-
vented those degrees, only in reference to its
character as a Christian sign . The subse-
quent archeological investigations that have
given to the cross a more universal place in
iconography were unknown to the rituals .
It is true, that it is referred to, under the name
of the rode or rood, in the manuscript of the
fourteenth century, published by Halliwell ;
this was, however, one of the Constitutions of
the Operative Freemasons, who were fond of
the symbol, and were indebted for it to their
ecclesiastical origin, and to their connection
with the Gnostics, among whom the cross was a
much used symbol . But on the revival in 1717,
when the ritual was remodified, and differed
very greatly from that meager one in practise
among the medieval Masons, all allusion to
the cross was left out, because the revivalists
laid down the principle that the religion of
Speculative Masonry was not sectarian but
universal. And although this principle was in
some points, as in the "lines parallel," neg-
lected, the reticence as to the Christian sign
of salvation has continued to the present day ;
so that the cross cannot be considered as a
symbol in the primary and original degrees of
Masonry .
But in the high degrees, the cross has been
introduced as an important symbol . In some
of them-those which axe to be traced to the
Temple system of Ramsay-it is to be viewed
with reference to its Christian origin and
meaning . Thus, in the original Rose Croix
and Kadosh-no matter what may be the
modern interpretation given to it-it was
simply a representation of the cross of Christ .
In others of a philosophical character, such as
the Ineffable degrees, the symbolism of the
cross was in all probability borrowed from the
usages of antiquity, for from the earliest

CROSS
times and in almost all countries the cross has
been a sacred symbol . It is depicted on the
oldest monuments of Egypt, Assyria, Persia,
and Hindustan . It was, says Faber (Cabir .,
ii ., 390), a symbol throughout the Pagan
world long previous to its becoming an object
of veneration to Christians . In ancient sym-
bology it was a symbol of eternal life . M . de
Mortillet, who, in 1866, published a work en-
titled Le Signe de la Croix avant le Christian-
isme, found in the very earliest epochs three
principal symbols of universal occurrence :
viz ., the circle, the pyramid, and the cross .
Leslie (Man's Origin and Destiny, p . 312),
quoting from him in reference to the ancient
worship of the cross, says : "It seems to have
been a worship of such a peculiar nature as to
exclude the worship of idols ." This sacred-
ness of the crucial symbol may be one reason
why its form was often adopted, especially by
the Celts, in the construction of their temples .
Of the Druidical veneration of the cross,
Higgins quotes from the treatise of Schedius
(De Moribus Germanorum, xxiv .) the following
remarkable paragraph :
"The Druids seek studiously for an oak-
tree, large and handsome, growing up with
two principal arms in the form of a cross, be-
beside the main, upright stem . If the two
horizontal arms are not sufficiently adapted
to the figure, they fasten a cross beam to it .
This tree they consecrate in this manner .
Upon the right branch they cut in the bark, in
fair characters, the word HESUS ; upon the
middle or upright stem, the word TARAMIS ;
upon the left branch, BELENUS ; over this,
above the going off of the arms, they cut the
name of God, THAU . Under all the same
repeated, THAU . This tree, so inscribed, they
make their kebla in the grove, cathedral, or
summer church, towards which they direct
their faces in the offices of religion ."
Mr . Brinton, in his interesting work entitled
Symbolism ; The Myths of the New World,
has the following remarks :
"The symbol that beyond all others has
fascinated the human mind, THE CROSS, finds
here its source and meaning . Scholars have
pointed out its sacredness in many natural
religions, and have reverently accepted it as a
mystery, or offered scores of conflicting, and
often debasing, interpretations . 	It is but
another symbol of the four cardinal points, the
four winds of heaven . 	This will luminously
appear by a study of its use and meaning in
America ." (P . 95 .) 	And Mr . Brinton gives
many instances of the religious use of the
cross by several of the aboriginal tribes of this
continent, where the allusion, it must be con-
fessed, seems evidently to be to the four car-
dinal points, or the four winds, or four spirits
of the earth . If this be so, and if it is prob-
able that a similar reference was adopted by
the Celtic and other ancient peoples, then we
would have in the cruciform temple as much
a symbolism of the world, of which the four
cardinal points constitute the boundaries, as
we have m the square, the cubical, and the
circular .
CROSS 	187
Cross, Double . 	See Cross, Patriarchal .
Cross, Jerusalem . 	A Greek cross be-
tween four crosslets . It was adopted by Bald-
wyn as the arms of the
kingdom of Jerusalem,
and has since been
deemed a symbol of the
Holy Land . It is also
the jewel of the Knights
of the Holy Sepulcher .
Symbolically, the four
small crosses typify the
four wounds of the Sa-
vior in the hands and
feet, and the large central cross shows forth
his death for that world to which the four ex-
tremities point .
Cross, Maltese . 	A cross of eight points,
worn by the Knights
of Malta . It is her-
aldically described as
"a cross pattt ;e, but
the extremity of each
pattee notched at a
deep angle ." 	The
eight points are said
to refer symbolically
to the eight beati-
tudes .
Cross of Constantine . 	See Labarum .
Cross of Salem . 	Called also the Pon-
tifical Cross, because it is borne before the
Pope . It is a cross, the up-
right piece being crossed by
three lines, the upper and
lower shorter than the middle
one . It is the insignia of the
Grand 	Master 	and 	Past
Grand Masters of the Grand
Encampment of Knights Tem-
plar of the United States, and
also of the Sovereign Grand
Commander of the Supreme
Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite .
Cross, Passion . 	The cross on which
Jesus suffered crucifixion . It is
the most common form of the
cross . When rayonnant, or hav-
ing rays issuing from the point
of intersection of the limbs, it is
the insignia of the Commander of
a Commandery of Knights Tem- .
play, according to the American
system .
Cross, Patriarchal . 	A cross, the upright
piece being twice crossed, the upper arms
shorter than the lower .
It is so called because it
is borne before a Patri-
arch in the Roman Church .
It is the insignia of the
officers of the Grand En-
campment of Knights Tem-
plars of the United States,
and of
a"pot
essors of the
Thirty-third 	egree in the
Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite .
11 1
fA

188 	CROSS
Cross, St . Andrew's . 	A saltier or cross
whose decussation is in the form of the letter
X . Said to be the form of
cross on which St . Andrew
suffered martyrdom . As he is
the patron saint of Scotland,
the St . Andrew's cross forms a
part of the jewel of the Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland which is "a star set
with brilliants having in the
centre a field azure, charged
with St . Andrew on the cross, gold ; this is
pendant from the upper band of the collar,
while from the lower band is pendant the
jewel proper, the Compasses extended, with
the Square and Segment of a Circle of 90° ;
the points of the Compasses resting on the
Segment, and in the centre, the Sun between
the Square and Compasses ." The St . An-
drew's cross is also the jewel of the Twenty-
ninth Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite, or Grand Scottish Knight of St .
Andrew .
Cross, Tau . 	The cross on which St . An-
thony is said to have suffered martyrdom . It
is in the form of the letter T .
(See Tau .)
Cross, Templar . Andr6
Favin, a French heraldic writ-
er, says that the original badge
of the Knights Templar was
a Patriarchal Cross, and
Clarke, in his History of
Knighthood, states the same
fact ; this but is an error .
At first, the Templars wore
a white mantle without any cross . But in
1146 Pope Eugenius III . prescribed for them
a red cross on the
breast, as a symbol
of the martyrdom to
which they were con-
stantly exposed . The
cross of the Hospital-
ers was white on a
black mantle, and
that of the Templars
was different in color
but of the same form,
namely, a cross pattee . In this it differed
from the true Maltese Cross, worn by the
Knights of Malta, which was a cross pattt ;e,
the limbs deeply notched so as to make a
cross of eight points . Sir Walter Scott, with
his not unusual heraldic inaccuracy, and
Higgins, who is not often inaccurate, but only
fanciful at times, both describe the Templar
cross as having eight points, thus confounding
it with the cross of Malta . In the statutes of
the Order of the Temple, the cross prescribed
is that depicted in the Charter of Transmis-
sion, and is a cross pattee .
Cross, Teutonic . 	The cross formerly
worn by the Teutonic Knights . It is described
in heraldry as "a cross potent, sable, (black,)
charged with another cross double potent or,
(gold,) and surcharged with an escutcheon
argent (silver,) bearing a double-headed eagle
CROSS
(sable) ." It has been adopted as the jewel
of the Kadosh of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite in the
United States but the
original jewe' of the
degree was a Latin or
Passion Cross .
Cross, Thrice Il-
lustrious Order of
the . Adegreeformerly
conferred in this coun-
try on Knights Tem-
plar, but now extinct . Its meetings were called
Councils, and under the authority of a body
which styled itself the Ancient Council of the
Trinity . The degree is no longer conferred .
Cross, Triple . 	See Cross of Salem .
Cross-Bearing Men . 	(Viri Crucigeri .)
A name sometimes assumed by the Rosicru-
cians . Thus, in the Miracula Natures (Anno
1619), there is a letter addressed to the Fra-
ternity of the Rosy Cross . which begins :
"Philosophi 	Fratres, 	Vin 	Crucigeri "-
Brother Philosophers, Cross Bearing Men .
Cross, Jeremy L . 	A teacher of the Ma-
sonic ritual, who, during his lifetime, was ex-
tensively known, and for some time very
popular . He was born June 27, 1783, at Hav-
erhill, New Hampshire, and died at the same
place in 1861 . Cross was admitted into the
Masonic Order in 1808, and soon afterward
became a pupil of Thomas Smith Webb, whose
modifications of the Preston lectures and of
the higher degrees were generally accepted by
the Masons of the United States . Cross, hav-
ing acquired a competent knowledge of
Webb's system, began to travel and dissemi-
nate it throughout the country . In 1819 be
published The True Masonic Chart or Hiero-
glyphic Monitor, in which he borrowed liber-
ally from the previous work of Webb . In fact,
the Chart of Cross is, in nearly all its parts, a
mere transcript of the Monitor of Webb, the
first edition of which was published in 1797 .
Webb, it is true, took the same liberty with
Preston, from whose Illustrations of Masonry
he borrowed largely . The engraving of the
emblems constituted, however, an entirely new
and original feature m the Hieroglyphic Chart,
and, as furnishing aids to the memory, ren-
dered the book of Cross at once very popular ;
so much so, indeed, that for a long time it al-
most altogether superseded that of Webb . In
1820 Cross published The Templars' Chart,
which, as a monitor of the degrees of chiv-
alry, met with equal success . Both of these
works have passed through numerous editions .
Cross received the appointment of Grand
Lecturer from many Grand Lodges, and trav-
eled for many years very extensively through
the United States, teaching his system of lec-
tures to Lodges, Chapters, Councils, and En-
campments .
He possessed little or no scholarly attain-
ments, and his contributions to the literature
of Masonry are confined to the two compila-
tions already cited . In his latter years he be-
came involved in an effort to establish a Su-
preme Council of the Ancient and Accepted


CROSSES
Rite . But he soon withdrew his name, and
retired to the place of his nativity, where he
died at the advanced age of seventy-eight .
Although Cross was not a man of any very
original genius, yet a recent writer has an-
nounced the fact that the symbol of the mon-
ument in the Third Degree, the broken column,
unknown to the system of either Preston or
Webb, was invented by him . (See Monu-
ment .)
Crosses . In referring to the philosophic
triads and national crosses, there will be found
in a work entitled The Celtic Druids, by God-
frey Higgins, the following : "Few causes have
been more powerful in producing mistakes in
ancient history than the idea, hastily formed
by all ages, that every monument of antiquity
marked with a cross, or with any of those sym-
bols which they conceived to be monograms of
Christ the Saviour, was of Christian origin .
The cross is as common in India as in Egypt
or Europe ." The Rev . Mr . Maurice remarks
(Indian Antiquities) : " Let not the piety of
the Catholic Christian be offended at the as-
sertion that the cross was one of the most usual
symbols of Egypt and India . The emblem of
universal nature is equally honored in the
Gentile and Christian world . In the Cave of
Elephanta, in India, over the head of the
principal figure may be seen the cross, with
other symbols ." Upon the breast of one of the
Egyptian mummies in the museum of the Lon-
don University is a cross upon a Calvary or
mount . 	People in those countries marked
their sacred water-jars, dedicated to Canopus,
with a Tau cross, and sometimes even that
now known as the Teutonic cress . The fer-
tility of the country about the river Nile, in
Egypt, was designated, in distance on its
banks from the river proper, by the Nilometer,
in the form of a cross . The erudite Dr . G . L .
Ditson says : "The Rabbins say that when
Aaron was made High Priest he was marked
in the forehead by Moses with a cross in the
shape of that now known as St . Andrew's ."
Proselytes, when admitted into the religious
mysteries of Eleusis, were marked with a cross .
Crossing the River . The Kabbalists have
an alphabet so called, in allusion to the cross-
ing of the river Euphrates by the Jews on their
return from Babylon to Jerusalem to rebuild
the Temple . It has been adopted in some of
the high degrees which refer to that incident .
Cornelius Agrippa gives a copy of the alphabet
in his Occult Philosophy .
Cross-Legged Knights . In the Middle
Ages it was the custom to bury the body of a
Knights Templar with one leg crossed over
the other ; and on many monuments in the
churches of Europe, the effigies of these
knights are to be found, often in England, of
a diminutive size, with the legs placed in this
position . The cross-legged posture was not
confined to the Templars, but was appropri-
ated to all persons who had assumed the cross
and taken a vow to fight in defense of the
Christian religion . The posture, of course,
alluded to the position of the Lord while on the
cross .
CROWNS 	189
Cross-Legged Masons . 	A name given to
the Knights Templar, who, in the sixteenth
century, united themselves with the Masonic
Lodge at Sterling, in Scotland . The allusion is
evidently to the funeral posture of the Tem-
plars, so that a "cross-legged Mason" must
have been at the time synonymous with a
Masonic Knights Templar .
Crotona . 	One of the most prominent cit-
ies of the Greek colonists in Southern Italy,
where, in the sixth century, Pythagoras es-
tablished his celebrated school . As the early
Masonic writers were fond of citing Pythag-
oras as a brother of their Craft, Crotona be-
came connected with the history of Masonry,
and was often spoken of as one of the most
renowned seats of the Institution . Thus, in
the Leland MS ., whose authenticity is now,
however, doubted, it is said that Pythagoras
"framed a grate Lodge at Groton, and maked
many Maconnes," in which sentence Groton, it
must be remarked, is an evident corruption of
Crotona .
Crow . 	An iron implement used to raise
heavy stones . It is one of the working-tools of
a Royal Arch Mason, and symbolically teaches
him to raise his thoughts above the corrupting
influence of worldly-mindedness .
Crown . 	A portion of Masonic regalia worn
by officers who represent a king, more espe-
cially King Solomon . In Ancient Craft Ma-
sonry, however, the crown is dispensed with,
the hat having taken its place .
Crown, Knight of the . 	See Knight of
the Crown .
Crown, Princesses of the . 	(Princesses de
la Couronne .) A species of androgynous Ma-
sonry established in Saxony in 1770 . (Thory,
Acta Latomorum, i ., 303 .) It existed for only
a brief period .
Crowned Martyrs . See Four Crowned
Martyrs .
Crowning of Masonry . Le couronnement
de la Maconnerie . The Sixty-first Degree 7th
series, of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France . (Thory, Acta Latomorum,
i ., 303 .)
Crowns . 	As the result of considerable
classification, Bro . Robert Macoy presents
nine principal crowns recognized in herald-
ry and symbolism : 	1st . The Triumphal
crown, of which there were three kinds-a
laurel wreath, worn by a General while in the
act of triumph ; a golden crown, in imitation
of laurel leaves ; and the presentation golden
crown to a conquering General . 2d . The
Blockade crown of wild flowers and grass, pre-
sented by the army to the Commander break-
ing and relieving a siege . 3d . The Civic
crown of oak leaves, presented to a soldier
who saved the life of his comrade . 4th . The
Olive crown, conferred upon the soldiery or
commander who consummated a triumph .
5th . The Mural crown, which rewarded the
soldier who first scaled the wall of a besieged
city . 6th . The Naval crown presented to
the Admiral who won a nava' victory . 7th .
The Vallary crown, or circlet of gold, bestowed
on that soldier who first surmounted the

1 9 0 	CRUCEFIX
stockade and forced an entrance into the
enemy's camp . 8th . The Ovation crown, or
chaplet of myrtle, awarded to a General who
had destroyed a despised enemy and thus ob-
tained the honor of an ovation . 9th . The
Eastern or Radiated crown, a golden circle
set with projecting rays .
The crown of Darius, used in Red Cross
knighthood and in the Sixteenth Degree, Scot-
tish Rite, was one of seven points, the central
front projection being more prominent than
the other six in size and height .
Crucefix, Robert T . 	An English Mason,
distinguished for his services to the Craft .
Robert Thomas Crucefix, M .D ., LL .D ., was
born in Holborn, Eng ., in the year 1797, and
received his education at Merchant Tailors'
School . After leaving school, he became the
pupil of Mr . Chamberlayne, a general and cel-
ebrated practitioner of his day, at Clerkenwell ;
he afterward became a student at St . Bar-
tholomew's Hospital and was a pupil of the
celebrated Abernethy . On receiving his di-
ploma as a member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, in 1810, he went out to India, where
he remained but a short time ; upon his return
he settled in London, and be continued to
reside there till the year 1845, when he re-
moved to Milton-on-Thames, where he spent
the rest of his life till within a few weeks before
his decease, when he removed, for the benefit
of his declining health, to Bath, where he ex-
pired February 25, 1850 . Dr . Crucefix was in-
itiated into Masonry in 1829, and during the
greater part of his life discharged the duties of
important offices in the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, of which he was a Grand Deacon, and in
several subordinate Lodges, Chapters, and
Encampments . He was an earnest promoter
of all the Masonic charities of England, of one
of which, the "Asylum for Aged and Decrepit
Freemasons," he was the founder . In 1834, he
established the Freemasons' Quarterly Review,
and continued to edit it for six years, during
which period he contributed many valuable
articles to its pages .
In 1840 	hrough the machinations of his
enemies (For' he was too great a man not to
have had some), he incurred the displeasure
of the ruling powers ; and on charges which,
undoubtedly, were not sustained by sufficient
evidence, he was suspended by the Grand
Lodge for six months, and retired from active
Masonic life . But he never lost the respect
of the Craft, nor the affection of the leading
Masons who were his contemporaries . On his
restoration, he again began to labor in behalf
of the Institution, and spent his last days in
advancing its interests . To his character, his
long-tried friend, the venerable Oliver, pays
this tribute : "Dr . Crucefix did not pretend to
infallibility, and, like all other public men, he
might be sometimes wrong ; but his errors
were not from the heart, and always leaned to
the side of virtue and beneficence . He toiled
incessantly for the benefit of his brethren, and
was anxious that all inestimable blessings
shouldbe conveyed by Masonry on mankind .
In sickness or in health he was ever found at
CRUSADES
his post, and his sympathy was the most
active in behalf of the destitute brother, the
widow, and the orphan . His perseverance
never flagged for a moment ; and he acted as
though he had made up his mind to live and
die in obedience to the calls of duty ."
Crucifix . 	A cross with the image of the
Savior suspended on it . A part of the furni-
ture of a Commandery of Knights Templar
and of a Chapter of Princes of Rose Crojx .
Crusades . 	There was between Freema-
sonry and the Crusades a much more intimate
relation than has generally been supposed .
In the first place, the communications fre-
quently established by the Crusaders, and es-
pecially the Knights Templar, with the Sara-
cens, led to the acquisition, by the former, of
many of the dogmas of the secret societies of
the East, such as the Essenes, the Assassins,
and the Druses . These were brought by the
knights to Europe, and subsequently, on the
establishment by Ramsay and his contem-
poraries and immediate successors of Templar
Masonry, were incorporated into the high
degrees, and still exhibit their influence . In-
deed, it is scarcely to be doubted that many
of these degrees were invented with a special
reference to the events which occurred in
Syria and Palestine . Thus, for instance, the
Scottish degree of Knights of the East and
West must have originally alluded, as its name
imports, to the legend which teaches a division
of the Masons after the Temple was finished,
when the Craft dispersed-a part remaining
in Palestine, as the Assideans, whom Lawrie,
citing Scaliger, calls the "Knights of the Tem-
ple of Jerusalem," and another part passing
over into Europe, whence they returned on the
breaking out of the Crusades . This, of course,
is but a legend, yet the influence is felt in the
invention of the higher rituals .
But the influence of the Crusades on the
Freemasons and the architecture of the Middle
Ages is of a more historical character . In 1836,
Mr . Westmacott, in a course of lectures on art
before the Royal Academy, remarked that the
two principal causes which materially tended
to assist the restoration of literature and the
arts in Europe were Freemasonry and the Cru-
sades . The adventurers, he said, who returned
from the Holy Land brought back some ideas
of various improvements, partic ula rly in ar-
chitecture, and, along with these, a strong
desire to erect castellated, ecclesiastical, and
palatial edifices, to display the taste they had
acquired ; and in less than a century from the
first Crusade above six hundred buildings of
the above description had been erected in
Southern and Western Europe . This taste was
spread into almost all countries by the estab-
lishment of the Fraternity of Freemasons, who
it appears, had, under some peculiar form of
brotherhood, existed for an immemorial period
in Syria and other parts of the East, from
whence some bands of them migrated to Eu-
rope, and after a time a great efflux of these
ingenious men - Italian German, French,
Spanish, etc .-had spread themselves in com-
munities through all civilized Europe ; and in

all countries where they settled we find the
same style of architecture from that period,
but differing in some points of
treatment, as suited the climate .
Crux Ansata . 	This signifies,
in Latin, the cross with a handle .
It is formed by a Tau cross sur-
mounted by a circle or, more prop-
erly, an oval . 	It was one of the
most significant of the symbols of
the ancient Egyptians, and is de-
picted repeatedly on their monu-
ments borne in the hands of their
deities, and especially Phtha . 	Among them
it was the symbol of life, and with that mean-
ing it has been introduced into some .of the
higher degrees of Masonry . 	The Crux An-
sata, surrounded by a serpent in a circle, is the
symbol of immortality, because the cross was
the symbol of life, and the serpent of eternity .
Crypt . 	From the Greek, rcp6mrw (to hide) .
A concealed place, or subterranean vault .
The caves, or cells underground, in which the
primitive Christians celebrated their secret
worship, were called cryptw ; and the vaults
beneath our modern churches receive the
name of crypts . The existence of crypts or
vaults under the Temple of Solomon is testi-
fied to by the earliest as well as by the most
recent topographers of Jerusalem . Their con-
nection with the legendary history of Masonry
is more fully noticed under the head of Vault
Secret .
Cryptic Degrees . 	The degrees of Royal
and Select Master. Some modern ritualists
have added to the list the degree of Super-
excellent Master ; but this, although now
often conferred in a Cryptic Council, is not
really a Cryptic degree, since its legend has
no connection with the crypt or secret vault .
Cryptic Masonry . 	That division of the
Masonic system which is directed to the in-
vestigation and cultivation of the Cryptic
degrees . 	It is, literally, the Masonry of the
secret vault .
Cteis . 	Greek, rrrels . 	The female person-
ification of the productive principle . It gen-
erally accompanied the phallus, as the Indian
yoni did the lingam ; and as a symbol of the
prolific powers of nature, was extensively ven-
erated by the nations of antiquity . 	(See
Phallic Worship .)
Cubical Stone . 	This symbol is called by
the French Masons, pierce cubique, and by the
German, cubik stein . It is the Perfect Ashlar
of the English and American systems . 	(See
Ashlar	.)
Cubit . A measure of length 	originally
denoting the distance from the elbow to the
extremity of the middle finger, or the fourth
part of a well-proportioned man's stature .
The Hebrew cubit, according to Bishop Cum-
berland, was twenty-one inches ; but only
eighteen according to other authorities . There
were two kinds of cubits, the sacred and pro-
fane-the former equal to thirty-six, and the
latter to eighteen inches . It is by the common
cubit that the dimensions of the various parts
of the Temple are to be computed .
CRUX 	CUNNING 	1 9 1
Culdees . 	When St . Augustine came over,
in the beginning of the sixth century, to Brit-
ain, for the purpose of converting the natives
to Christianity, he found the country already
occupied by a body of priests and their dis-
ciples, who were distinguished for the pure and
simple apostolic religion which they professed .
These were the Culdees, a name said by some
to be derived from Cultores Dei, or worshipers
of God ; but by others, with perhaps more
plausibility, from the Gaelic, Cuildich, which
means a secluded corner, and evidently al-
ludes to their recluse mode of life . The Culdees
are said to have come over into Britain with
the Roman legions ; and thus it has been con-
jectured that these primitive Christians were
in some way connected with the Roman Col-
leges of Architects, branches of which body, it
is well known, everywhere accompanied the
legionary armies of the empire . The chief seat
of the Culdees was in the island of Iona where
St . Columba, coming out of Ireland ; with
twelve brethren, in the year 563, established
their principal monastery . At Avernethy, the
capital of the kingdom of the Picts, they
founded another in the year 600, and subse-
quently other principal seats at Dunkeld, St .
Andrew's, Brechin, Dunblane, Dumferline,
Kirkaldy, Melrose, and many other places in
Scotland . A writer in the London Freemasons'
Quarterly Review (1842, p . 36) says they were
little solicitous to raise architectural struc-
tures, but sought chiefly to civilize and social-
ize mankind by imparting to them the knowl-
edge of those pure principles . which they
taught in their Lodges . Lenning and Gadicke,
however, both state that the Culdees had or-
ganized within themselves, and as a part of
their social system, Corporations of Builders ;
and that they exercised the architectural art
in the construction of many sacred edifices in
Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, and even in other
countries of Northern Europe . Gadicke also
claims that the York Constitutions of the
tenth century were derived from them . But
neither of these German lexicographers has
furnished us with authorities upon which these
statements are founded . 	It is, however, un-
deniable, that Masonic writers have always
claimed that there was a connection-it might
be only a mythical one-between these apos-
tolic Christians and the early Masonry of Ire-
land and Scotland . 	The Culdees were op-
posed and persecuted by the adherents of St .
Au 	ine, and were eventually extinguished
in Scotland . But their complete suppression
did not take place until about the fourteenth
century .
Cumulation of Rites . 	The practise by a
Lodge of two or more Rites, as the American
or York and the Ancient Accepted Scottish, or
the Scottish and French Modern Rites . This
cumulation of Rites has been practised to a
considerable extent in France, and in Louisi-
ana in the United States .
Cunning . 	Used by old English writers
in the sense of skilful . 	Thus, in 1 Kings
vii . 14, it is said of the architect who was sent
by the King of Tyre to assist King Solomon in

192 	CUP
the construction of his Temple, that he was
"cunning to work all works in brass ."
Cup of Bitterness . 	(Calice d'Amertume .)
A ceremony in the First Degree of the French
Rite . It is a symbol of the misfortunes and
sorrows that assail us in the voyage of life, and
which we are taught to support with calmness
and resignation .
t
Curetes . Priests of ancient Crete, whose
mysteries were celebrated in honor of the
Mother of the Gods, and bore, therefore, some
resemblance to the Eleusinian Rites . The neo-
phyte was initiated in a cave, where he re-
mained closely confined for thrice nine days .
Porphyry tells us that Pythagoras repaired
o C rete to receive initiation into their rites .
Curiosity . 	It is a very general opinion
among Masons that a candidate should not be
actuated by curiosity in seeking admission into
the Order . But, in fact, there is no regulation
nor landmark on the subject . An idle curiosity
is, it is true, the characteristic of a weak mind .
But to be influenced by a laudable curiosity to
penetrate the mysteries of an Institution ven-
erable for its antiquity and its universality, is
to be controlled by a motive which is not rep-
rehensible . There are, indeed, in legends of
the high degrees, some instances where curi-
osity is condemned ; but the curiosity, in these
instances, led to an intrusion into forbidden
places, and is very different from the curiosity
or desire for knowledge which leads a profane
to seek fairly and openly an acquaintance
with mysteries which he has already learned
to respect .
Curious . 	Latin, curiosus, from cura, care .
An archaic expression for careful . 	Thus in
Masonic language, which abounds in archa-
isms, an evidence, indeed, of its antiquity
Hiram Abif is described as a "curious and
cunning workman," that is to say, "careful
and skilful ."
Customs, Ancient . 	See Usages .
Cynocephalus . 	The figure of a man with
the head of a dog . 	A very general and im-
portant hieroglyphic among the ancient Egyp-
tians . 	It was with them a symbol of the sun
and moon ; and in their mysteries they taught
that it had indicated to Isis the place where
the body of Osiris lay concealed . The pos-
sessor of the high degrees of Masonry will be
familiar with the symbol of a dog, which is
used in those degrees because that animal is
said to have pointed out on a certain occasion
an important secret . Hence the figure of a dog
is sometimes found engraved among the sym-
bols on old Masonic diplomas .
Cyrus . 	Cyrus, King of Persia, was a great
conqueror, and after having reduced nearly
all Asia, he crossed the . Euphrates, and laid
siege to Babylon, which he took by diverting
the course of the river which ran through it .
The Jews, who had been carried away by
Nebuchadnezzar on the destruction of the
Temple, were then remaining as captives in
Babylon . These Cyrus released A .M . 3466,
or B .c . 538, and sent back to Jerusalem to
rebuild the house of God under the care of
Joshua, Zerubbabel, and Haggai . 	Hence,
CYRUS
from this connection of Cyrus with the his-
tory of Masonry, he plays an important part
in the rituals of many of the high degrees .
But from late discoveries of inscriptions per-
taining to Cyrus, as mentioned in the excellent
little London work called Fresh Light from the
Ancient Monuments (pp . 166-186), A . H .
Sayce, M .A ., it would appear that this king
was a polytheist, and that he was not a king of
Persia, although he acquired that country
after his conquest of Astyages, B .c . 559, be-
tween the sixth and ninth years of Nabomdos .
Cyrus was king of Elam . 	The empire he
founded was not a Persian one ; Darius, the
son of Hystaspes, at a subsequent period, was
the real founder of that kingdom . Prof . Sayce
continues : "It was only as the predecessor of
Darius, and for the sake of intelligibility to
the readers of a later day, that Cyrus could be
called a king of Persia ." (Ezra i . 2 .) The orig-
inal words of his proclamation, "King of
Elam," have been changed into the more fa-
miliar and intelligible "King of Persia ." Else-
where in the Bible (Isa . xxi . 1-10), when the
invasion of Babylon is described, there is no
mention of Persia, only of Elam and Media,
the ancestral dominions of Cyrus . This is in
strict accordance with the revelations of the
Monuments, and testifies to the accuracy of
the Old •T estament records .
Cyrus never besieged Babylon, a city fifteen
miles square . It opened its gates to his general
without battle, B .C . 538 . The description by
Herodotus belongs to the reign of Darius . Mr .
Bosanquet asserts that the Darius of the Book
of Darnel is Darius the son of Hystaspes .
Cyrus had learned that a disaffected con-
quered people imported into a kingdom was
a constant menace and danger, and he re-
turned the Jewish exiles to Jerusalem to re-
build their city and be a fortress and check
upon Egypt . 	The nations which had been
brought from East and West were restored to
their lands along with their gods . So it was
with the captives of Judah . His dominions ex-
tended from the Hellespont almost to India .
Cyrus 	was a worshiper of Merodach,
originally the Sun-god, who is mentioned an
intended by the name Bel, and Nebo, his
prophet . (Isa . xlvi . 1 .) His first act after ac-
quiring Babylonia was to restore the Babylon-
ian gods to their shrines, from which they had
been removed by Nabonidos, and further asks
for their intercession . The theory that Cyrus
believed in but one supreme god-Ormudz-
must be abandoned . God consecrated Cyrus
to be His instrument in restoring His chosen
people to their land, not because the King of
Elam was a Monotheist, but because the
period of prophecy, "ten weeks of years," was
drawing to a close .
These statements are made upon the au-
thority of the three inscriptions among the
clay documents lately discovered in Baby-
lonia by Mr . Rassam, and translated by Sir
Henry Rawlinson and Mr . Pinches. The first
of these is a cylinder, inscribed by order of
Cyrus ; the second a tablet, which describes
the conquest of Babylonia by Cyrusi while

1
CYRUS
the third is an account given by Nabonidos of
his restoration of the temple of the Moon-god
at Haran, and of the temples of the Sun-god
and of Anunit at Sepharvaim .
Cyrus ascended the throne B .c . 559, and
was slain in battle against the MassagetEe,
B .c . 529 . He was followed by Cambyses (son)
until B .c . 521, when he was succeeded by
Smerdis, a Magian usurper, who reigned seven
D . The fourth letter of the Phoenician, the
Hebrew, the Greek, the Roman, and of nearly
all alphabets . In Hebrew it is 1, Daleth, sig-
nifying the door of life, a representation of
which was probably its original hieroglyph,
thus :
2
D
1 shows the approximation to the Hebrew
aleth ; 2, the G reek Delta, resembling the
opening of a tent . The numerical value of 'i
is four ; as a Roman numeral it stands for 500 .
The Divine name in Hebrew connected with
this letter is 51a1, Daghul, Insignia .
Da Costa, Hippolyto Joseph . 	A native
of Colonia-do-Sacramento, on the river La
Plata . He was made a Freemason in Phila-
delphia in the United States and afterward
settled in Lisbon . He was subsequently per-
secuted by the Inquisition, and was rescued
only in time to save his life by the aid of Eng-
lish brethren who got him uner the protection
of the English flag . He then passed over into
England, where he lived for several years, be-
coming a zealous Mason and devoting himself
to Masonic literature . In 1811, he published
in London a Narrative of his persecution in
Lisbon, by the Inquisition, for the pretended
crime of Freemasonry, in 2 vols ., 8vo . 	He
wrote also a History of the Dionysian Artificers,
in which he attempts to connect Freemasonry
with the Dionysian and other mysteries of the
ancients . He begins with the Eleusinian mys-
teries, assuming that Dionysus, Bacchus,
Adonis, Thammuz, and Apollo were all various
names for the sun, whose apparent movements
are represented by the death and resurrection
referred to in the ceremonies . But as the sun
is typified as being dead or hidden for three
months under the horizon, be thinks that these
mysteries must have originated in a cold cli-
mate as far north as latitude 66°, or among a
people living near the polar circle . He there-
fore attributes the invention of these mys-
D
DAGRAN 	193
months . Darius I ., son of Hystaspes, a noble-
man, conspired with six others and murdered
Smerdis, when, by device, Darius obtained
the throne over his companions 	B .c . 521 .
The celebrated siege of Babylon lasted two
years ; the city finally succumbed to the strat-
egy of General Zopyrus, 516 . Darius reigned
36 years, died B .c . 485 . 	(C . T . McClenachan,
Zendavesta .)
teries to the ancient Scythians or Massagette,
of whom he confesses that we know nothing .
He afterward gives the history of the Dionys-
iae or Orphic mysteries of Eleusis, and draws
a successful parallel between the initiation
into these and the Masonic initiation . His
disquisitions are marked by much learning,
although his reasoning may not always carry
conviction .
Daetyf . 	Priests of Cybele, in Phrygia, of
whom there were five, which number could not
be exceeded, and alluded to the salutation and
blessing by the five fingers of the hand .
Daduchos . 	A torch-bearer . 	The title
given to an officer in the Eleusinian mysteries,
who bore a torch in commemoration of the
torch lit by Ceres at the fire of Mt . Etna, and
carried by her through the world in her search
for her daughter .
Daedalus . 	A famous artist and mechani-
cian whose genealogy is traced in the Greek
myths as having sprung from the old Athen-
ian race of kings, the Erechtheidm . He is said
to have executed the Cretan labyrinth, the
reservoir near Megaris in Sicily, the Temple of
Apollo at Capua, and the celebrated altar
sculptured with lions on the Libyan coast . He
is said to be the inventor of a number of the
"Working Tools" used in the various degrees
of Masonry, the plumb-line and the ax, most
of the tools used in car entry, and of glue .
Of him is told the fable of~his flying safely over
the fEgean by means of wings made by him-
self . His nephew, Perdix : is the reputed in-
ventorof the third Great Light in Masonry, the
Compasses, which are dedicated to the Craft .
Through envy Da dalus is said to have hurled
his nephew, Perdix, from the Temple Athene .
Dagger . 	In the high degrees a symbol
of Masonic vengeance, or the punishment of
crime . (See Vengeance .)
Dagrain, Louis . 	A writer in the Amster-
dam Journal of November 3, 1735, of an article
on the subject of Freemasonry, which caused
an edict from the States General forbidding
Masonic gatherings throughout the country .
(Thory, ActaLat ., ii ., 306 .)
Dagran, Louis . President of a General
Assembly of thirty Lodges held on St . John's
Day, 1756, at The Hague, for the formation of

194 	DAIS
the Grand Lodge of Holland . It was at this
December meeting that Baron Van Aerssen
Beyeren Van Ho erheide was appointed
Grand Master . 	(Tory, Acta Lat ., i ., 72 .)
Dais . 	From the French dais, a canopy .
The raised floor at the head of a banqueting
room, designed for guests of distinction ; so
called because it used to be decorated with a
canopy . In Masonic language, the dais is the
elevated portion of the eastern part of the
Lodge room, which is occupied by Past Masters
and the dignitaries of the Order . This should
be elevated three steps above the floor . The
station of the Junior Warden is raised one, and
that of the Senior two .
Dakota . 	The first Lodge organized in
Dakota was St . John's Lodge, at Yankton,
which received from the Grand Lodge of Iowa,
December 5, 1862, a dispensation, and after-
ward a Charter, dated June 3, 1863 ; Incense
Lodge, at Vermillion, received a dispensation,
January 14, 1869, and a Charter, June 2, 1869 ;
Elk Point Lodge, at Elk Point, received a dis-
pensation, March 23, 1870, and a Charter,
June 8,1871 ; Minnehaha Lodge, at Sioux Falls
received a dispensation, July 13, 1873, and a
Charter, June 3, 1874 ; Silver Star Lodge, at
Canton, received a dispensation, February 6,
1875, and a Charter, June 2, 1875 ; and Mount
Zion Lodge, at Springfield, received a dispen-
sation, February 16, 1875, and a Charter,
June 2, 1875 . All of the above warrants were
granted by authority of the Grand Lodge of
Iowa . A dispensation was issued by the Grand
Master of Minnesota, November 22, 1872, for
S!iiloh Lodge, at Fargo, and a Charter was
issued January 14, 1874 . He also issued a
dispensation to Bismarck Lodge in 1874, and
again in 1875, and on January 12, 1876, the
Lodge received a Charter .
June 21, 1875, a convention was held of the
representatives of St . John's, Incense, Elk
Point, Minnehaha, and Silver Star Lodges .
Those of Mt . Zion Lodge, U . D ., were present
but did not participate in the proceedings, the
Lodge not having a Charter . A constitution
was adopted and they elected their Grand
Officers .
July 21, 1875, the convention met again and
the Grand Officers were installed in public, by
Illustrious Brother Theodore S . Parvin, P . G .
Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of Iowa .
This Grand Lodge continued until the ses-
sion of June 11-13, 1889, when by Act of Con-
gress, approved February 22, 1889, the divi-
sion of the Territory of Dakota into North and
South Dakota was likely to be accomplished
within a few months . The report of a commit-
tee on division of the Grand Lodge was
adopted, and certain Lodges located in North
Dakota were permitted to organize a Grand
Lodge of North Dakota .
A Grand Chapter of Dakota was consti-
tuted in 1885, which was divided in 1890 into
the Grand Chapters of North and South Da-
kota . 	On May 14, 1884, a Grand Command-
cry of Knights Templar was organized, with
five Commanderies .
DALCHO
Dalcho, Frederick, M .D . 	One of the
founders of the Supreme Council of the An-
cient and Accepted Scottish Rite for the
Southern Jurisdiction of the United States .
He was born in the city of London in the year
1770, of Prussian, parents . His father had been
a distinguished officer under Frederick the
Great, and, having been severely wounded,
was permitted to retire to England for his
health . He was a very earnest Mason, and
transmitted his sentiments to his son . At his
death, this son was sent for by an uncle, who
had a few years before emigrated to Baltimore .
Here he obtained a good classical education,
after which he devoted himself successfully
to the study of medicine, including a more
extensive course of botany than is common
in medical schools .
Having received his degree of Doctor of
Medicine, he took a commission in the medical
department of the American army . With his
division of the army he came to South Caro-
lina, and was stationed at Fort Johnson, in
Charleston harbor . Here some difficulty arose
between Dr . Dalcho and his brother officers, in
consequence of which he resigned his place in
the army in 1799 . He then removed to
Charleston, where he formed a partnership in
the practise of physic with Isaac Auld, and he
became a member of the Medical Society,
and a trustee of the Botanic Garden, estab-
lished through its influence .
On the 12th of June, 1818, Dr . Dalcho was
admitted to the priesthood of the Protestant
Episcopal Church . On the 23d of Februar ,
he was elected assistant minister of St . MY-
chael's Church, in Charleston . He died on the
24th of November, 1836, in the sixty-seventh
year of his age, and the seventeenth of his
ministry in St . Michael's Church .
The principal published work of Dr . Dalcho
is, An Historical Account of the Protestant
Episcopal Church in South Carolina . He also
published a work entitled The Evidence from
Prophecy for the Truth of Christianity and the
Divinity of Christ ; besides several sermons
and essays, some of which were the result of
considerable labor and research . He was also
the projector, and for a long time the principal
conductor, of the Gospel Messenger, then the
leading organ of the Episcopal Church in
South Carolina .
The Masonic career of Dr . Dalcho closely
connects him with the history of York Ma-
sonry in South Carolina, and with that of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite through-
out the United States .
He was initiated in a York or Atholl Lodge
at the time when the jurisdiction of South
Carolina was divided by the existence and the
dissensions of two Grand Lodges, the one de-
riving its authority from the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of England, and
the other from the rival Atholl Grand Lodge .
His constant desire appears, however, to
have been to unite these discordant elements,
and to uproot the evil spirit of Masonic rivalry
and contention which at that time prevailed-
a wish which was happily gratified, at length,

DALCHO
by the union of the two Grand Lodes of
South Carolina in 1817, a consummation to
which he himself greatly contributed .
In 1801 Dr . Dalcho received the Thirty-
third and ultimate degree, or Sovereign Grand
Inspector of the Ancient and Accepted Scot-
tish Rite ; and May 31, 1801, he became in-
strumental in the establishment at Charleston
of the Supreme Council for the Southern Juris-
diction of the United States, of which body he
was appointed Grand Secretary, and afterward
Grand Commander ; which latter position he
occupied until 1823, when he resigned .
September 23, 1801, he delivered an oration
before the Sublime Grand Lodge in Charles-
ton . 	This and another delivered March 21,
1803, before the same body, accompanied by a
learned historical appendix, were published in
the latter year under the general name of
Dalcho's Orations . The work was soon after
republished in Dublin by the Grand Council
of Heredom, or Prince Masons of that city ;
and McCosh says that there were other edi-
tions issued in Europe, which, however, I have
never seen . 	The oration of 1803 and the ap-
pendix furnish the best information that up to
that day, and for many years afterward, was
accessible to the Craft in relation to the his-
tory of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite in this country .
In 1807, at the request of the Grand Lodge
of York Masons of South Carolina, he pub-
lished an Ahiman Rezon, which was adopted
as the code for the government of the Lodges
under the jurisdiction of that body . T
work, as was to be expected from the character
of the Grand Lodge which it represented, was
based on the previous book of Laurence Der-
mott .
In 1808 he was elected Corresponding
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of An-
cient York Masons, and from that time di-
rected the influences of his high position to the
reconciliation of the Masonic difficulties in
South Carolina .
In 1817 the Grand Lodge of Free and Ac-
cepted Masons and that of Ancient York
Masons of South Carolina became united
under the name of "the Grand Lodge of An-
cient Freemasons of South Carolina ." 	Dr .
Dalcho took a very active part in this reunion,
and at the first annual communication he was
elected Grand Chaplain . The duties of this
office he faithfully performed, and for many
years delivered a public address or sermon on
the Festival of St . John the Evangelist .
In 1822 he prepared a second edition of the
Ahiman Rezon, which was published the fol-
lowing year, enriched with many notes . Some
of these notes he would have hardly written,
with the enlarged experience of the present
day ; but on the whole the second edition was
an improvement on the first . 	Although re-
taining the peculiar title which had been in-
troduced by Dermott, it ceased in a great
measure to follow the principles of the 	'An-
cient Masons ."
In 1823 Dalcho became involved in an un-
pleasant controversy with some of his Masonic
DAMES 	195
associates, in consequence of difficulties and
dissensions which at that time existed in the
Scottish Rite ; 	and his feelings were so
wounded by the unmasonic 	spirit which
seemed to actuate his antagonists and former
friends, that he resigned the office of Grand
Chaplain, and retired for the remainder of his
life from all participation in the active duties
of Masonry .
Dalmatic . 	A robe worn by deacons in
some Christian churches . Originally made of
linen, as shown by early Christian paintings
on the walls of the catacombs at Rome, but
now generally made of heavy woolen or silk
material, as the planets worn by the priest .
This article of dress has become quite common
in many of the degrees of various Rites .
Damascus . 	An ancient and important
city of Syria, situated on the road between
Babylon and Jerusalem, and said in Masonic
tradition to have been one of the resting-
places of the Masons who, under the procla-
mation of Cyrus, returned from the former to
the latter city to rebuild the Temple . An at-
tempt was made in 1868 to introduce Free-
masonry into Damascus, and a petition,
signed by fifteen applicants, for a charter for a
Lodge was sent to the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land ; but the petition was rejected on the
ground that all the petitioners were members
of Grand Lodges under other Grand Lodge
jurisdictions .
Dambool . 	The vast rock temple of the
Buddhists in Ceylon, containing a profusion of
carvings, figures of Buddha of extraordinary
magnitude . Monuments of this deity are, in
the common Singhalese term, called Dagoba,
but the more general name is Stupa or Tope .
(See Topes .)
Dame . 	In the York Roll No . 4 and some
of the other old manuscripts, we find the
direction to the Apprentice that he shall not
so act as to bring harm or shame, during
his apprenticeship, "either to his Master or
Dame ." It is absurd to suppose that this gives
any color to the theory that in the ancient
Masonic gilds women were admitted . 	The
word was used in the same sense as it still is in
the public schools of England, where the old
lady who keeps the house at which the pupils
board and lodge, is called "the dame .' 	The
Compagnons de la Tour in France called her
"h3, mere," or the mother . It must, however,
be acknowledged, that women, under the title
of sisters, were admitted as members, and
given the freedom of the company, in the old
Livery Companies of London-a custom
which Herbert (Hilt . Liv . Comp ., i ., 83) thinks
was borrowed, on the reconstitution of the
companies by Edward III ., from the religious
gilds . 	(See this subject discussed under the
title Sisters of the Gild .)
Dames of Mt . Tabor . 	An androgynous
Masonic society, established about the year
1818, under the auspices of the Grand Orient
of France . Its design was to give charitable
relief to destitute females .
Dames of the Order of St. John . Relig-
ious ladies who, from its first institution, had

196 	DAMOISEL
been admitted into the Fraternity of Knights
Hospitalers of St . John of Jerusalem . The
rules for their reception were similar to those
for the Knights, and the proofs of noble de-
scent which were required of them were some-
times more rigid . They had many conventual
establishments in France, Italy, and Spain .
Damoisel . 	A name given in the times of
chivalry to a page or candidate for knight-
hood .
Dan . 	One of the twelve tribes of Israel,
whose blue banner charged with an eagle is
borne by the Grand Master of the First Veil in
a Royal Arch Chapter .
Danger . In all the old Constitutions and
Charges 	Masons are taught to exercise
brotherly love, and to deal honestly and truly
with each other, whence results the duty in-
cumbent upon every Mason to warn his
Brother of approaching danger . That this
duty may never be neglected, it is impressed
upon every Master Mason by a significant
ceremony .
Daniel . 	The countersign with "Darius"
for Monday in the Thirty-second Degree,
Scottish Rite . A Hebrew prophet, contem-
porary of Ezekiel, about 600 B .c . 	Carried
captive to Babylon in the fourth year of
Jehoiakim, but selected for instruction in all
the learning of the Chaldeans by order of the
Court . 	His skill in the interpretation of
dreams was famed . He became Governor of
Babylon under Nebuchadnezzar, and the first
ruler of the whole Medo-Persian Empire, in-
ferior only to Darius, the king . Under Cyrus
he had been Grand Master of the Palace and
Interpreter of Visions, as narrated in the
Fifteenth Degree, Scottish Rite . He did not
return with his countrymen to Judea when
granted their liberty . It is a dispute as to
when he died, or where, but the majority
favor Sushan, in Persia, when he was 90 years
of age . At the present day a tomb is shown in
this ancient city bearing his name ; in fact,
it is the only standing structure there . Daniel
was noted and famed for his piety, and as well
for his worldly possessions .
Dannebrog . The banner of Denmark con-
taining a red cross . It is founded upon the
tradition, which reminds us of that of Con-
't antine, that Waldemar II ., of Denmark, in
1219 saw in the heavens a fiery cross, which
betokened his victory over the Esthonians .
Dantzie . 	In the year 1768, on the 3d of
October, the burgomaster and magistrates of
the city of Dantzie commenced a persecution
against Freemasonry, which Institution they
charged with seeking to undermine the foun-
dations of Christianity, and to establish in its
place the religion of nature . Hence, they is-
sued a decree forbidding every citizen, inhab-
itant, and even stranger sojourning in the
city, from any attempt to reestablish the
society of Freemasons, which was thenceforth
to be regarded "as forever abolished," under
penalties of fine and imprisonment .
Dao . 	The Zend name for light, from Daer,
to shine .
Darakiel . 	A responsive word in 	the
DARKNESS
Twenty-third Degree of the Scottish Rite .
Latin, Directio Dei .
Darius . 	The successor of Cyrus on the
throne of Persia, Babylon, and Medea . He
pursued the friendly policy of his predecessor
in reference to the Jews, and confirmed the
decrees of that monarch by a new edict . In
the second year of his reign, Haggai and Zech-
ariah, encouraged by this edict, induced their
countrymen to resume the work of restoring
the Temple, which was finished four years
afterward . Darius is referred to in the de-
grees of Princes of Jerusalem, the Sixteenth of
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, and
the Companion of the Red Cross in the Amer-
ican Rite .
Darkness . 	Darkness has, in all the sys-
tems of initiation, been deemed a symbol of
ignorance, and so opposed to light, which is
the symbol of knowledge . Hence the rule, that
the eye should not see until the heart has con-
ceived the true nature of those beauties which
constitute the mysteries of the Order . In the
Ancient Mysteries, the aspirant was always
shrouded in darkness, as a preparatory step to
the reception of the full light of knowledge .
The time of this confinement in darkness and
solitude varied in the different mysteries .
Among the Druids of Britain the period was
nine days and nights ; in the Grecian Mys-
teries it was three times nine days ; while
among the Persians, according to Porphyry
it was extended to the almost incredible period
of fifty days of darkness, solitude, and fasting .
Because, according to all the cosmogonies,
darkness existed before light was created,
darkness was originally worshiped as the first-
born, as the progenitor of day and the state of
existence before creation . The apostrophe of
Young to Night embodies the feelings which
gave origin to this debasing worship of dark-
ness :
" O majestic night!
Nature's great ancestor! day's elder born!
And fated to survive the transient sun!
By mortals and immortals seen with awel"
Freemasonry has restored darkness to its
proper place as a state of preparation ; the
symbol of that antemundane chaos from
whence light issued at the Divine command ;
of the state of nonentity before birth, and of
ignorance before the reception of knowledge .
Hence, in the Ancient Mysteries, the release
of the aspirant from solitude and darkness was
called the act of regeneration, and he was said
to be born again, or to be raised from the dead .
And in Masonry, the darkness which envelops
the mind of the uninitiated being removed by
the bright effulgence of Masonic light, Masons
are appropriately called "the sons of light ."
In Dr . Oliver's Signs and Symbols there is a
lecture "On the Mysterious Darkness of the
Third Degree ." This refers to the ceremony of
enveloping the room in darkness when that
degree is conferred-a ceremony once always
observed, but now, in this country at least,
frequently but improperly omitted . The dark-
ness here is a symbol of death, the lesson

DARMSTADT
taught in the degree, while the subsequent
renewal of light refers to that other and sub-
sequent lesson of eternal life .
Darmstadt, 	Grand 	Lodge 	of . 	The
Grand Lodge of Darmstadt, in Germany,
under the distinctive appellation of the Grand
Lodge zur Eintracht (of Concord), was es-
tablished on the 22d of March, 1846, by three
Lodges, in consequence of a dissension between
them and the Eclectic Union . The latter body
had declared that the religion of Freemasonry
was universal, and that Jews could be ad-
mitted into the Order . Against this liberal dec-
laration a Lodge at Frankfort had protested,
and had been erased from the roll for contu-
macy . 	Two other Lodges, at Mainz and at
Darmstadt, espoused its cause, and united
with it in forming a new Grand Lodge for
southern Germany, founded on the dogma
"that Christian principles formed the basis on
which they worked ." It was, in fact, a dispute
between tolerance and intolerance . Neverthe-
less, the body was taken under the patronage
of the Grand Duke of Hesse, and was recog-
nized by most of the Grand Lodges of Ger-
many . 	It has eight Lodges under its juris-
diction .
Dassigny, Fifleld, M .D . 	A Mason of
Dublin, Ireland, who published, in 1744, at
Dublin, A Serious and Impartial Enquiry into
the Cause of the present Decay of Freemasonry
in the Kingdom of Ireland . 	It contained an
abstract of the history of Freemasonry, and
an allusion to the Royal Arch Degree, on ac-
count of which it has been cited by Dermott
in his Ahiman Rezon . 	The work is important
on account of its reference to Royal Arch
Masonry, but is very scarce, only three copies
of it being known to exist, of which one be-
longs to the Grand Lodge of Iowa, and one
to the West Yorkshire Masonic Library of
which a facsimile was published in 1893, while
a third copy was discovered in 1896 . The
writer's name is spelled D'Assigny or Dassigny,
but is given in the latter form on the title-page
of the Serious Enquiry . 	Dr . W . J . Chetwode
Crawley has investigated the history of the
D'Assigny family . 	(Comentaria Hibernica .
Fasc . II .) 	[E . L . H .]
Dates, Masonic . See Calendar .
Dathan . A Reubenite who, with Korah
and Abiram, revolted against Moses and un-
lawfully sought the priesthood . In the first
chapter of the Book of Numbers, where the
whole account is given, it is said that as a pun-
ishment the earth opened and swallowed them
up . The incident is referred to in the Order
of High Priesthood, an honorary degree of the
American Rite, which is conferred upon the
installed High Priests of Royal Arch Chap-
ters .
Daughter, Mason's . 	See Mason's Wife
and Daughter .
Daughter of a Mason . The daughter of a
Mason is entitled to certain peculiar privi-
leges and claims upon the Fraternity arising
from her relationship to a member of the
Craft . There has been some difference of
opinion as to the time and manner in which the
DEACON 	197
privileges cease . 	Masonic jurists, however,
very generally incline to the opinion that they
are terminated by marriage . If a Mason's
daughter marries a profane, she absolves her
connection with the Fraternity . If she mar-
ries a Mason, she exchanges her relation of a
Mason's daughter for that of a Mason's wife .
David . David has no place in Masonic
history, except that which arises from the
fact that he was the father of King Solomon,
and his predecessor on the throne of Israel .
To him, however, were the Jews indebted for
the design of a Temple in Jerusalem, the build-
ing of which was a favorite object with him .
For this purpose he purchase Mt . Moriah,
which had been the threshing-floor of Ornan
the Jebusite ; but David had been engaged in
so many wars, that it did not seem good to
the Lord that he should be permitted to con-
struct so sacred an edifice . This duty, there-
fore, he left to his son, whom, before dying, he
furnished with plans and with means to ac-
complish the task . Though David is a fa-
vorite subject among the Kabbalists and the
Mussulmans, who relate many curious tra-
ditions concerning him, he is not alluded to in
the legends or symbolism of Masonry, except
incidentally as the father of Solomon .
David, Shield of . 	See Shield of David .
Dazard, Michel Frangols . 	Born 	at
Chateaudun, in France, May 2, 1781 . He was
a devoted student of Masonry, and much oc-
cupied in the investigation of the high degrees
of all the Rites . He was an opponent of the
Supreme Council, against which body he
wrote, in 1812, a brochure of forty-eight pages
entitled Extrait des colonnes gravees du Pbre de
Famille, vallee d'Angers . Moss calls it an im-
portant and exhaustive polemic document .
It attempts to expose, supported by docu-
ments, what the author and his party called
the illegal pretensions of the Supreme Council,
and the arrogance of its claim to exclusive
jurisdiction in France . Dazard was the author
of several other interesting discourses on Ma-
sonic subjects .
Deacon . 	In every Symbolic Lodge, there
are two officers who are called the Senior and
Junior Deacons . In America the former is
appointed by the Master and the latter by
the Senior Warden ; in England both are ap-
pointed by the Master . It is to the Deacons
that the introduction of visitors should be
properly entrusted . Their duties comprehend,
also, a general surveillance over the security
of the Lodge, and they are the proxies of the
officers by whom they are appointed . Hence
their jewel, in allusion to the necessity of cir-
cumspection and justice is a square and com-
passes . In the center, the Senior Deacon
wears a sun, and the Junior Deacon a moon,
which serve to distinguish their respective
ranks. In the English system, the jewel of
the Deacons is a dove, in allusion to the dove
sent forth by Noah . In the Rite of Mizraim
the Deacons are called acolytes .
The office of Deacons in Masonry appears
to have been derived from the usages of the
primitive church . In the Greek church, the

198 	DEACON'S
Deacons were always the rvxwpol, pylori or
doorkeepers, and in the Apostolical Constitu-
tions the Deacon was ordered to stand at the
men's door, and the Subdeacon at the wom-
en's, to see that none came in or went out dur-
ing the oblation .
In the earliest rituals of the last century,
there is no mention of Deacons, and the
duties of those officers were discharged partly
by the Junior Warden and partly by the
Senior and Junior Entered Apprentices, and
they were not generally adopted in England
until the Union of 1813 .
Deacon's Rod . 	See Rod, Deacon's .
Deaf and Dumb . 	Deaf mutes, as im-
perfect men, come under the provisions of the
Old Constitutions, and are disqualified for ini-
tiation . Some years ago, however, a Lodge
in Paris, captivated by the eclat of the
proceeding, and unmindful of the ancient land-
mark, initiated a deaf mute, who was an intel-
ligent professor in the Deaf and Dumb Asy-
lum . All the instructions were given through
the medium of the language of the deaf mutes .
It scarcely need be said that this cannot be
recognized as a precedent .
Death . 	The Scandinavians, in their Edda,
describing the residence of Death in Hell,
where she was cast by her father, Loke, say
that she there possesses large apartments,
strongly built, and fenced with gates of iron .
Her hall is Grief ; her table, Famine ; Hunger,
her knife ; Delay, her servant ; Faintness,
her porch ; Sickness and Pain, her bed ; and
her tent, Cursing and Howling . But the
Masonic idea of death, like the Christian's, is
accompanied with no gloom, because it is rep-
resented only as a sleep, from whence we
awaken into another life . Among the ancients,
sleep and death were fabled as twins . Old
Gorgias, when dying, said, "Sleep is about to
deliver me up to his brother" ; but the death
sleep of the heathen was a sleep from which
there was no awaking . The popular belief was
annihilation, and the poets and philosophers
fostered the people's ignorance, by describing
death as the total and irremediable extinction
of life . Thus Seneca says-and he was too
philosophic not to have known better-
"that after death there comes nothing" ;
while Virgil, who doubtless had been initiated
into the Mysteries of Eleusis, nevertheless calls
death "an iron sleep, an eternal night" : yet
the Ancient Mysteries were based upon the
dogma of eternal life, and their initiations
were intended to represent a resurrection .
Masonry, deriving its system of symbolic
teachings from these ancient religious asso-
ciations, presents death to its neophytes as
the gate or entrance to eternal existence . To
teach the doctrine of immortality is the great
object of the Third Degree . In its ceremonies
we learn that life here is the time of labor, and
that, working at the construction of a spiritual
temple, we are worshiping the Great Archi-
tect, for whom we build that temple . But we
learn also that, when that life is ended, it
closes only to open upon a newer and higher
one, where, in a second temple and a purer
DECALOGUE
Lodge, the Mason will find eternal truth .
Death, therefore, in Masonic philosophy, is
the symbol of initiation completed, perfected,
and consummated .
Death of the Mysteries . 	Each of the
ancient religious Mysteries, those quasi-Ma-
sonic associations of the heathen world was
accompanied by a legend-which was always
of a funereal character-representing the
death, by violence, of the deity to whom it was
dedicated, and his subsequent resurrection or
restoration to life . Hence, the first part of the
ceremonies of initiation was solemn and lu-
gubrious in character, while the latter part
was cheerful and joyous . These ceremonies
and this legend were altogether symbolical,
and the great truths of the unity of God and
the immortality of the soul were by them in-
tended to be dramatically explained .
This representation of death, which finds
its analogue in the Third Degree of Masonry,
has been technically called the Death of the
Mysteries . 	It is sometimes more precisely
defined, in reference to any special one of the
Mysteries, as "the Cabiric death" or "the
Bacchic death," as indicating the death rep-
resented in the Mysteries of the Cabiri or of
Dionysus .
Debate . 	Debates in a Masonic Lodge
must be conducted according to the fraternal
principles of the Institution . In the language
of Dr . Oliver, "the strictest courtesy should
be observed during a debate, in a Mason's
Lodge, on questions which elicit a difference
of opinion ; and any gross violation of decorum
and good order is sure to be met by an admoni-
tion from the chair ." It must be always re-
membered that the object of a Masonic dis-
cussion is to elicit truth, and not simply to
secure victory .
When, in a debate, a brother desires to
speak, he rises and addresses the chair . The
presiding officer calls him by his name, and
thus recognizes his right to the floor . While he
is speaking, he is not to be interrupted by any
other member, except on a point of order . If
called to order by any member, the speaker is
immediately to take his seat until the point is
stated, when the Master will make his decision
without debate . The speaker will then rise
and resume his discourse, if not ruled out by
the Master . During the time that he is speak-
ing, no motion is permissible . Every member
is permitted to speak once on the subject
under discussion ; nor can he speak a second
time, except by permission of the Master,
unless there is a more liberal provision in the
by-laws of the Lodge . There are to this rule
two exceptions, namely, when a member rises
to explain, and when the mover of the resolu-
tion closes the debate by a second speech to
which he is entitled by parliamentary law .
Decalogue . 	The ten commandments of
the Masonic law, as delivered from Mt .
Sinai and recorded in the twentieth chapter
of Exodus, are so called . They are not obligar
tory upon a Mason as a Mason, because the
Institution is tolerant and cosmopolite, and
cannot require its members to give their ad-

DECANUS
hesion to any religious dogmas or precepts,
excepting those which express a belief in the
existence of God, and the immortality of the
soul . 	No partial law prescribed for a par-
ticular religion can be properly selected for
the government of an Institution whose great
characteristic is its universality . (See Moral
Law .)
Decanus . An officer in the Knights Tem-
plar system of Baron Hund, who, in the ab-
sence of the Grand Master and his Prior, pos-
sessed the right to preside in the Chapter .
Deeius . 	The nom de plume of C . L . Rein-
hold, a distinguished Masonic writer . (See
Reinhold .)
Declaration of Candidates . Every can-
didate for initiation is required to make,
"upon honor," the following declaration be-
fore an appropriate officer or committee .
That, unbiased by the improper solicitation of
friends and uninfluenced by mercenary mo-
tives, he freely and voluntarily offers himself
as a candidate for the Mysteries of Masonry ;
that he is prompted to solicit the privileges of
Masonry by a favorable opinion conceived of
the Institution and a desire of knowledge ;
and that he will cheerfully conform to all the
ancient usages and established customs of the
Fraternity . This form is very old . It is to be
found in precisely the same words in the earli-
est edition of Preston . It is required by the
English Constitution, that the candidate
should subscribe his name to this declaration .
But in America the declaration is made orally,
and usually before the Senior Deacon .
Declaration of the Master . 	Every Mas-
ter of a Lodge, after his election and before his
installation, is required to give, in the pres-
ence of the brethren, his assent to the following
fifteen charges and regulations :
1 . Do you promise to be a good man and
true, and strictly to obey the moral law?
2 . Do you promise to be a peaceable citizen,
and cheerfully to conform to the laws of the
country in which you reside? 3 . Do you
promise not to be concerned in plots and con-
spiracies against the government of the coun-
try in which you live, but patiently to submit
to the decisions of the law and the constituted
authorities? 4 . Do you promise to pay proper
respect to the civil magistrates, to work dili-
gently, live creditably, and act honorably by
all men? 5 . Do you promise to hold in venera-
tion the original rulers and patrons of the
Order of Freemasonry, and their regular suc-
cessors, supreme and subordinate, according to
their stations ; and to submit to the awards
and resolutions of your brethren in Lodge
convened, in every case consistent with the
constitutions of the Order? 6 . Do you promise,
as much as in you lies, to avoid private piques
and quarrels, and to guard against intemper-
ance and excess? 7 . Do you promise to be
cautious in your behavior, courteous to your
brethren, and faithful to your Lodge? 8 . Do
you promise to respect genuine and true
brethren r and to discountenance impostors
and all dissenters from the Ancient Landmarks
and Constitutions of Masonry? 9 . Do you
DEDICATION 	199
promise, according to the best of your abili-
ties, to promote the general good of society, to
cultivate the social virtues, and to propagate
the knowledge of the mystic art, according to
our statutes? 	10 . Do you promise to pay
homage to the Grand Master for the time
being, and to his officers when duly installed ;
and strictly to conform to every edict of the
Grand Lodge or General Assembly of Masons
that is not subversive of the principles and
groundwork of Masonry? 11 . Do you admit
that it is not in the power of any man, or body
of men,_ to make innovations in the body of
Masonry? 12 . Do you promise a regular at-
tendance on the committees and communica-
tions of the Grand Lodge, on receiving proper
notice, and to pay attention to all the duties
of Masonry, on convenient occasions? 13 .
Do you admit that no new Lodge can be
formed without permission of the Grand
Lodge ; and that no countenance ought to be
given to any irregular Lodge, or to any person
clandestinely initiated therein, as being con-
tra the ancient charges of the Order?
14.%o you admit that no person can be reg-
ularly made a Freemason in, or admitted a
member of, any regular Lodge, without pre-
vious notice, and due inquiry into his charac-
ter? 15 . Do you agree that no visitors shall be
received into your Lodge without due exam-
ination, and producing proper vouchers of
their having been initiated in a regular Lodge?
Declaring Off. 	"When a brother ceases
to visit and pay his monthly subscription, he
thereby declares himself off the Lodge ."
(Symbolical Dictionary .) 	In England, the
brother "resigns." Various designations rule
in the United States, the chief one being
"dropped from the roll ." In some States the
brother is punished by "suspension ." If, how-
ever, in certain States, he is clear of the books,
upon application he can receive a certificate
to that effect, and be dropped from the roll .
In England he gets a "clearance certificate ."
In Scotland a "demit" is issued by the
Daughter Lodge and countersigned by the
Grand Secretary .
Decorations . 	A Lodge room ought, be-
sides its necessary furniture, to be ornamented
with decorations which, while they adorn and
beautify it, will not be unsuitable to its sacred
character . On this subject, Dr . Oliver, in his
Book of the Lodge (ch . v ., p . 70), makes the fol-
lowing judicious remarks : "The expert Mason
will be convinced that the walls of a Lodge
room ought neither to be absolutely naked nor
too much decorated . A chaste disposal of
symbolical ornaments in the right places, and
according to propriety, relieves the dulness
and vacuity of a blank space, and, though but
sparingly used, will produce a striking impres-
sion, and contribute to the general beauty and
solemnity of the scene ."
Dedication of a Lodge . 	Among the an-
cients every temple, altar, statue, or sacred
place was dedicated to some divinity . The
Romans, during the Republic, confided this
duty to their consuls, pretors, censors, or
other chief magistrates, and afterward to the

200 	DEDICATION
emperors . According to the Papirian law, the
dedication must have been authorized by a
decree of the senate and the people, and the
consent of the college of augurs . The cere-
mony consisted in surrounding the temple or
object of dedication with garlands of flowers,
whilst the vestal virgins poured on the ex-
terior of the temple the lustral water . The
dedication was completed by a formula of
words uttered by the Pontiff, and the immola-
tion of a victim, whose entrails . were placed
upon an altar of turf . The dedication of a
temple was always a festival for the people,
and was annually commemorated . While the
Pagans dedicated their temples to different
deities-sometimes to the joint worship of
several-the monotheistic Jews dedicated
their religious edifices to the one supreme Je-
hovah . Thus, David dedicated with solemn
ceremonies the altar which he erected on the
threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, after
the cessation of the plague which had afflicted
his people ; and Calmet conjectures that he
composed the thirtieth Psalm on this occasion .
The Jews extended this ceremony of dedica-
tion even to their private houses, and Clarke
tells us, in reference to a passage on this sub-
ject in the Book of Deuteronomy, that "it
was a custom in Israel to dedicate a new house
to God with prayer, praise, and thanksgiving ;
and this was done in order to secure the di-
vine presence and blessing, for no pious or
sensible man could imagine he could dwell
safely in a house that was not under the im-
mediate protection of God ."
According to the learned Selden, there was
a distinction among the Jews between conse-
cration and dedication for sacred things were
both consecrated and dedicated, while profane
things such as private dwelling-houses were
only dedicated . Dedication was, therefore, a
less sacred ceremony than consecration . This
distinction has also been preserved among
Christians, many of whom, and, in the early
ages, all, consecrated their churches to the
worship of God but dedicated them to, or
placed them under, the especial patronage of
some particular saint . A similar practise pre-
vails m the Masonic Institution ; and there-
fore, while we consecrate our Lodges "to the
honor of God's glory," we dedicate them to
the patrons of our Order .
Tradition informs us that Masonic Lodges
were originally dedicated to King Solomon,
because he was our first Most Excellent Grand
Master . In the sixteenth century St . John the
Baptist seems to have been considered as the
peculiar patron of Freemasonry ; but subse-
quently this honor was divided between the
two Saints John, the Baptist and the Evange-
list ; and modern Lodges, in this country at
least, are universally erected or consecrated to
God, and dedicated to the Holy Saints John .
In the Hemming lectures, adopted in 1813, at
the time of the union of the two Grand Lodges
of England, the dedication was changed from
the Saints John to King Solomon, and this
usage now prevails very generally in England
[where Lodges are dedicated to "God and His
DEDICATION
Service, also to the memory of the Royal Solo-
mon, under whose auspices many of our Ma-
sonic mysteries had their origin ."-[E . L . H .] ;
but the ancient dedication to the Saints John
has never been abandoned by the American
Lodges .
The formula in Webb which dedicates the
Lodge "to the memory of the Holy Saint
John," was, undoubtedly, an inadvertence on
the part of that lecturer, since in all his oral
teachings he adhered to the more general sys-
tem, and described a Lodge in his esoteric
work as being "dedicated to the Holy Saints
John ." 	This is now the universal practise,
and the language used by Webb becomes con-
tradictory and absurd when compared with
the fact that the festivals of both saints are
equally celebrated by the Order, and that the
27th of December is not less a day of ob-
servance in the Order than the 24th of June .
In one of the old lectures of the last century,
this dedication to the two Saints John is thus
explained :
"Q . Our Lodges being finished, furnished
and decorated with ornaments, furniture, and
jewels, to whom were they consecrated?
"A . To God .
"Q . Thank you, brother ; and can you tell
me to whom they were first dedicated?
"A . To Noah, who was saved in the ark .
"Q . And by what name were the Masons
then known?
"A . They were called Noachidae, Sages, or
Wise Men .
"Q . To whom were the Lodges dedicated
during the Mosaic dispensation?
"A . To Moses, the chosen of God, and Sol-
omon, the son of David, king of Israel, who
was an eminent patron of the Craft .
"Q . And under what name were the Masons
known during that period?
"A . Under the name of Dionysiacs, Geo-
metricians, or Masters in Israel .
"Q . But as Solomon was a Jew, and died
long before the promulgation of Christianity,
to whom were they dedicated under the Chris-
tian dispensation?
"A . From Solomon the patronage of Ma-
sonry passed to St . John the Baptist .
"Q . And under what name were they
known after the promulgation of Chris-
tianity?
"A . Under the name of Essenes, Archi-
tects, or Freemasons .
"Q . Why were the Lodges dedicated to St .
John the Baptist?
"A . Because he was the forerunner of our
Saviour, and, by preaching repentance and
humiliation, drew the first parallel of the
Gospel .
"Q . Had St . John the Baptist any equal?
"A . He had ; St . John the Evangelist .
"Q . Why is he said to be equal to the Bap-
tist?
"A . Because he finished by his learning
what the other began by his zeal, and thus
drew a second line parallel to the former ; ever
since which time Freemasons' Lodges, in all
Christian countries, have been dedicated to

DEDICATION
the one or the other, or both, of these worthy
and worshipful men ."
There is another old lecture, adopted into
the Prestonian system, which still further
developed these reasons for the Johannite ded-
ication, but with slight variations in some of
the details .
"From the building of the first Temple at
Jerusalem to the Babylonish captivity, Free-
masons' Lodges were dedicated to King Solo-
mon ; from thence to the coming of the Mes-
siah, they were dedicated to Zerubbabel, the
builder of the second Temple ; and from that
time to the final destruction of the Temple by
Titus, in the reign of Vespasian, they were
dedicated to St . John the Baptist ; but owing
to the many massacres and disorders which
attended that memorable event, Freemasonry
sunk very much into decay ; many Lodges
were entirely broken up, and but few could
meet in sufficient numbers to constitute their
legality ; and at a general meeting of the
Craft, held in the city of Benjamin, it was ob-
served that the principal reason for the de-
cline of Masonry was the want of a Grand
Master to patronize it . They therefore de-
puted seven of their most eminent members to
wait upon St . John the Evangelist, who was
at that time Bishop of Ep hesus, requesting
him to take the office of Grand Master . 	He
returned for answer, that though well stricken
in years (being upwards of ninety), yet having
been initiated into Masonry in the early part
of his life, he would take upon himself that
office . He thereby completed by his learning
what the other St . John effected by his zeal,
and thus drew what Freemasons term a `line
parallel' ; ever since which time Freemasons'
Lodges, in all Christian countries, have been
dedicated both to St . John the Baptist and St .
John the Evangelist ."
So runs the tradition, but, as it lacks every
claim to authenticity, a more philosophical
reason may be assigned for this dedication to
the two Saints John .
One of the earliest deviations from the pure
religion of the Noachidx was distinguished by
the introduction of sun worship . The sun, in
the Egyptian mysteries, was symbolized by
Osiris, the principal object of their rites, whose
name, according to Plutarch and Macrobius,
signified the prince and leader, the soul of the
universe and the governor of the stars . Ma-
crobius (Saturn ., 1 . i ., c . 18) says that the
Egyptians worshiped the sun as the only
divinity ; and they represented him under
different forms, according to the different
phases, of his infancy at the winter solstice in
December, his adolescence at the vernal equi-
nox in March, his manhood at the summer
solstice in June, and his old age at the au-
tumnal equinox in September .
Among the Phoenicians, the sun was adored
under the name of Adonis, and in Persia,
under that of Mithras . In the Grecian myster-
ies, the orb of day was represented by one of
the officers who superintended the ceremony of
initiation ; and in the Druidical rites his wor-
ship was introduced as the visible representa-
DEDICATION 	201
tive of the invisible, creative, and preserva-
tive principle of nature . In short, wherever
the spurious Freemasonry existed, the adora-
tion of, or, at least, a high respect for, the solar
orb constituted a part of its system .
In Freemasonry, the sun is still retained as
an important symbol . This fact must be fa-
miliar to every Freemason of any intelligence .
It occupies, indeed, its appropriate position,
simply as a symbol, but, nevertheless, it con-
stitutes an essential part of the system . "As
an emblem of God's power," says Hutchinson
(Sp . of Mas ., Lect . IV ., p . 86), `his goodness,
omnipresence, and 	eternity, the Lodge is
adorned with the image of the sun, which he
ordained to arise from the east and open the
day ; thereby calling forth the people of the
earth to their worship and exercise in the
walks of virtue ."
"The government of a Mason's Lodge,"
says Oliver (Signs and Sym ., p . 204), "is
vested in three superior officers, who are
seated in the East, West, and South, to re ere-
sent the rising, setting, and meridian sun .'
The sun, obedient to the all-seeing eye, is an
emblem in the ritual of the Third Degree, and
the sun displayed within an extended compass
constitutes the jewel of the Past Master in the
American system, and that of the Grand
Master in the English .
But it is a needless task to cite authorities
or multiply instances to prove how intimately
the sun, as a symbol, is connected with the
whole system of Freemasonry .
It is then evident that the sun, either as an
object of worship, or of symbolization, has
always formed an important part of what has
been called the two systems of Freemasonry,
the Spurious and the Pure .
To the ancient sun worshipers, the move-
ments of the heavenly bodies must have been
something more than mere astronomical phe-
nomena ; they were the actions of the deities
whom they adored, and hence were invested
with the solemnity of a religious character .
But, above all, the particular periods when
the sun reached his greatest northern and
southern declination, at the winter and sum-
mer solstices, by entering the zodiacal signs of
Cancer and Capricorn, marked as they would
be by the most evident effects on the seasons,
and on the length of the days and nights,
could not have passed unobserved, but, on the
contrary, must have occupied an important
place in their ritual . 	Now these important
days fall respectively on the 21st of June and
the 21st of December . Hence, these solstitial
periods were among the principal festivals
observed by the Pagan nations . 	Du Pauw
(Diss . on Egyp . and Chinese, ii ., 159) remarks
of the Egyptians, that "they had a fixed fes-
tival at each new moon ; one at the summer,
and one at the winter solstice, as well as the
vernal and autumnal equinoxes ."
The Druids always observed the festivals of
midsummer and midwinter in June and De-
cember . The former for a long time was cele-
brated by the Christian descendants of the
Druids . 	"The eve of St . John the Baptist,"

202 	DEDICATION
says Chambers (Inf . for the People, No . 89),
"variously called midsummer eve, was for-
merly a time of high observance amongst the
English, as it still is in Catholic countries .
Bonfires were everywhere lighted round which
the people danced with joyful demonstra-
tions, occasionally leaping through the flame ."
Higgins (Celt . Druids, p . 165) thus alludes
to the celebration of the festival of midwinter
in the ancient world :
"The festival of the 25th of December was
celebrated, by the Druids in Britain and Ire-
land, with great fires lighted on the tops of the
hills . . . . On the 25th of December, at the
first moment of the day, throughout all the
ancient world, the birthday of the god Sol was
celebrated . This was the moment when, after
the supposed winter solstice and the lowest
point of his degradation below our hemisphere,
he began to increase and gradually to ascend .
At this moment, in all the ancient religions,
his birthday was kept ; from India to the Ul-
tima Thule, these ceremonies partook of the
same character : everywhere the god was
feigned to be born, and his festival was cele-
brated with great rejoicings ."
Our ancestors finding that the Church, ac-
cording to its usage of purifying Pagan festi-
vals by Christian application, had appropri-
ated two days near those solstitial periods to
the memory of two eminent saints, incorpo-
rated these festivals by the lapse of a few days
into the Masonic calendar, and adopted these
worthies as patrons of our Order . To this
change, the earlier Christian Masons were the
more persuaded by the peculiar character of
these saints . 	St . John the Baptist, by an-
nouncing the approach of Christ, and by the
mystic ablution to which he subjected his
proselytes, and which was afterward adopted
in the ceremony of initiation into Christianity,
might well be considered as the Grand Hiero-
phant of the Church ; while the mysterious
and emblematic nature of the Apocalypse as-
similated the mode of instruction adopted by
St . John the Evangelist to that practised by
the Fraternity .
We are thus led to the conclusion that the
connection of the Saints John with the Ma-
sonic Institution is rather of a symbolic than
of an historical character . In dedicating our
Lodges to them, we do not so much declare our
belief that they were eminent members of the
Order, as demonstrate our reverence for the
great Architect of the Universe in the symbol
of His most splendid creation, the great light
of day .
In conclusion it may be observed that the
ceremony of dedication is merely the enunci-
ation of a form of words, and this having been
done, the Lodge is thus, by the consecration
and dedication, set apart as something sacred
to the cultivation of the principles of Masonry,
under that peculiar system which acknowl-
edges the two Saints John as its patrons .
Royal Arch Chapters are dedicated to
Zerubbabel, Prince or Governor of Judah, and
Commanderies of Knights Templar to St .
John the Almoner . Mark Lodges should be
DEFORMITY
dedicated to Hiram the Builder ; Past Mas-
ters' to the Saints John, and Most Excellent
Masters' to King Solomon .
Dedication of the Temple . There are five
dedications of the Temple of Jerusalem which
are recorded in Jewish history : 1 . The dedica-
tion of the Solomonic Temple, B .c . 1004 . 2 .
The dedication in the time of Hezekiah when
it was purified from the abominations ofAhaz,
B .c . 726 . 3 . The dedication of Zerubbabel's
Temple, B .c . 513 . 4 . The dedication of the
Temple when it was purified after Judas Mac-
cabmus had driven out the Syrians, B .c . 164 .
5 . The dedication of Herod's Temple, B .c .
22 . 	The fourth of these is still celebrated by
the Jews in their "Feast of the Dedication . '
The first only is connected with the Masonic
ritual, and is commemorated in the Most
Excellent Master's Degree of the American
Rite as the "Celebration of the Cape-Stone ."
This dedication was made by King Solomon
in the year of the world 3000, and lasted eight
days, commencing in the month of Tisri, 15th
day, during the Feast of Tabernacles . The
dedication of the Temple is called, in the Eng-
lish system of Lectures, "the third grand offer-
ing which consecrates the floor of a Mason's
Lodge ." The same Lectures contain a tra-
dition that on that occasion King Solomon as-
sembled the nine Deputy Grand Masters in
the holy place, from which all natural light
had been carefully excluded, and which only
received the artificial light which emanated
from the east, west, and south, and there made
the necessary arrangements . The legend must
be considered as a myth ; but the inimitable
prayer and invocation which were offered up
by King Solomon on the occasion are recorded
in the eighth chapter of the 1st Book of Kings,
which contains the Scriptural account of the
dedication .
Defamation . 	See Back .
Definition of Freemasonry . 	"The def-
initions of Freemasonry," says Oliver, in his
Historical Landmarks of Freemasonry, "have
been numerous ; but they all unite in declaring
it to be a system of morality by the practice
of which its members may advance their spir-
itual interest, and mount by the theological
ladder from the Lodge on earth to the Lodge
in heaven . It is a mistake, however, to sup-
pose that Freemasonry is a system of religion .
It is but the handmaiden to religion, although
it largely and effectually illustrates one great
branch of it, which is practice ." The defini-
tion in the English Lectures is most often
quoted, which says that "Freemasonry is a
peculiar system of morality veiled in allegory
and illustrated by symbols ."
But a more comprehensive and exact defini-
tion is, that it is a science which is engaged in
the search after Divine Truth, and which employs
symbolism as its method of instruction .
Deformity . 	The old Constitutions 	de-
clare that the candidate for Masonry must be
a "perfect youth, having no maim or defect in
his body ." The Masonic law of physical qual-
ifications is derived from the Mosaic, which
excluded from the priesthood a man having

DEGREES
any blemishes or deformities . The regulation
in Masonry constitutes one of the landmarks,
and is illustrative of the symbolism of the In-
stitution . The earliest of the old Constitutions,
that of the Halliwell or Regius MS ., has this
language on the subject :
"To the Craft it were great shame
To make a halt man and a lame,
For an imperfect man of such blood
Should do the Craft but little good ."
(Lines 153-6 .)
This question has been fully discussed in
Dr . Mackey's Text Book of Masonic Jurispru-
dence, pp. 96-113 .
Degrees . 	The word degree, in its primitive
meaning, signifies a step . 	The degrees of Free-
masonry are, then, the steps by which the can-
didate ascends from a lower to a higher condi-
tion of knowledge . It is now the opinion of the
best scholars, that the division of the Masonic
system into degrees was the work of the re-
vivalists of the beginning of the eighteenth
century ; that before that period there was but
one degree, or rather one common platform of
ritualism ; and that the division into Masters,
Fellows, and Apprentices was simply a division
of ranks, there being but one initiation for all .
In 1717 the whole body of the Fraternity con-
sisted only of Entered Apprentices, who were
recognized by the thirty-nine Regulations
compiled in 1720, as among the law-givers of
the Craft, no change in those Regulations
being allowed unless first submitted "even to
the youngest Apprentice ." In the old Charges,
collected by Anderson and approved in 1722,
the degree of Fellow-Craft is introduced as
being a necessary qualification for Grand Mas-
ter, although the word degree is not used . "No
brother can be a . . . Grand Master unless
he has been a Fellow Craft before his election ."
And in the Manner of constituting a New
Lodge of the same date, the Master and
Wardens are taken from "among the Fellow
Crafts," which Dermott explains by saying
that "they were called Fellow Crafts because
the Masons of old times never gave any man
the title of Master Mason until he had first
passed the chair ." In the thirteenth of the
Regulations of 1720, approved in 1721, the
orders or degrees of Master and Fellow-Craft
are recognized in the following words : "Ap-
prentices must be admitted Masters and
Fellow Crafts only in the Grand Lodge ."
Between that period and 1738, the system of
degrees had been perfected ; for Anderson,
who, m that year, published the second edition
of the Book of Constitutions, changed the
phraseology of the old Charges to suit the al-
tered condition of things, and said, "a Pren-
tice, when of age and expert, may become an
Enter'd Prentice or a Free-Mason of the low-
est degree, and upon his due improvements
a Fellow-Craft and a Master-Mason ." (Old
Charge IV ., Constitutions, 1738, p . 145 .)
No such words are found in the Charges as
printed in 1723 ; and if at that time the dis-
tinction of the three degrees had been as well
defined as in 1738, Anderson would not have
DEGREES 	203
failed to insert the same language in his first
edition . That he did not, leads to the fair pre-
sumption that the ranks of Fellow-Craft and
Master were not then absolutely recognized
as distinctive degrees . The earliest ritual ex-
tant, which is contained in the Grand Mystery,
published in 1725, makes no reference to any
degrees, but gives only what we may suppose
was the common initiation in use about that
time . The division of the Masonic system into
three degrees must have grown up between
1717 and 1730, but in so gradual and imper-
ceptible a manner that we are unable to fix
the precise date of the introduction of each
degree . In 1717 there was evidently but one
degree, or rather one form of initiation, and one
catechism . 	Perhaps about 1721 the three
degrees were introduced, but the second and
third were not perfected for many years .
Even as late as 1735 the Entered Apprentice's
Degree contained the most prominent form of
initiation, and he who was an Apprentice was,
for all practical purposes, a Freemason . It
was not until repeated improvements, by the
adoption of new ceremonies and new regula-
tions, that the degree of Master Mason took
the place which it now occupies ; having been
confined at first to those who had passed the
chair .
Degrees, Ancient Craft . 	See Ancient
Craft Masonry .
Degrees, Androgynous . 	Degrees that
are conferred on females as well as males .
(See Androgynous Degrees .)
Degrees, Apocalyptic . 	See Apocalyptic
Degrees .
Degrees, High . 	See High Degrees .
Degrees, Honorary . 	See Honorary De-
grees .
Degrees, Ineffable . 	See Inef fable De-
grees .
Degrees of Chivalry . 	The religious and
military orders of knighthood which existed in
the Middle Ages, such as the Knights Templar
and Knights of Malta, which were incorpo-
rated into the Masonic system and conferred
as Masonic degrees, have been called Degrees
of Chivalry . They are Christian in character,
and seek to perpetuate in a symbolic form
the idea on which the original Orders were
founded . The Companion of the Red Cross,
although conferred, in this country, in a Com-
mandery of Knights Templar, and as prelim-
naary to that degree, is not properly a degree of
Degrees of Knowledge . 	Fessler was de-
sirous of abolishing all the high degrees, but
being unable to obtain the consent of the
Royal York Grand Lodge, he composed out
of them a new system of five degrees which
he called Degrees of Knowledge, Erkenntnis-
Stufen, to each of which was annexed a form
of initiation . "The Degrees of Knowledge,"
says Findel (Hist ., 496), "consisted of a reg-
ular detailed course of instruction in each sys-
tem of the Lodges, whether extinct or in full
activity, and were to end with a complete
critical remodelling of the history of Free-
masonry, and of the Fraternity of reemasons

204 	DEGREES
from the most ancient period down to our own
day ." 	(See Fessler, Rite of .)
Degrees, Philosophical . 	See Philosophic
Degrees .
Degrees, Symbolic . 	See Symbolic De-
grees .
Deiseil . The counterpart of Tuathal . Mac-
kenzie, in the Royal Masonic Cycloptedia, says
"Deiseil is used by the Druids as a term for
the circumambulation of the sacred cairns .
Derived from deas, south, and tul, a course ;
that is, in a southward direction following the
course of the sun. The opposite is Tuathal, in a
northward direction, as is observed at the
present day in approaching the grave witl} a
corpse ."
Deism . 	In an abstract sense, Deism, or
Theism is the belief in God, but the word is
general'y used to designate those who, believ-
ing in God, reject a belief in the Scriptures as
a revelation . The sect of Deists-which, in
the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, en-
rolled among its followers many great intel-
lects, such as Toland, Collins, Lord Herbert
of Cherbury, Hume, Gibbon, and Voltaire-is
said by Findel (Hist ., p . 126) to have "neces-
sarily exercised an important influence on the
Fraternity of Masons" ; and, he adds, that
"we cannot doubt that it contributed essen-
tially to its final transformation from an op-
erative to a universal speculative society ."
The refutation of this remarkable assertion is
best found in the first of the Charges adopted
at the revival in 1717, and which was pub-
lished in the Constitutions of 1723 : "A Mason
is obliged, by his tenure, to obey the moral
law ; and if he rightly understands the art, he
will never be a stupid atheist nor an irreligious
libertine," where the words irreligious liber-
tine refer to the Freethinkers or Deists of that
period 	. 	It is evident, then, that the Deists
could have had no influence at that time in
molding the Masonic organization . There is
still better evidence to be found in the old
records of Freemasonry during several pre-
ceding centuries, when the Operative was its
dominant character, and when the dogmas
of Christianity were fully recognized, which
must necessarily have been the case, since
Freemasonry during that period was under
the patronage of the Church . There is, in
fact, no evidence to sustain Findel's theory,
that in the transition stage from the Operative
to the Speculative, when such men as the
deeply religious Ashmole were among its mem-
bers, the Deists could have infused any of
their principles into its organization or exer-
cised any influence in changing its character .
Freemasonry, at that time sectarian, de-
manded almost a Christian belief--at all
events, a Christian allegiance-from its dis-
ciples . 	It is now more tolerant, and Deism
presents no disqualification for initiation .
An atheist would be rejected, but none would
now be refused admission on religious grounds
who subscribed to the dogmas of a belief in
God and a resurrection to eternal life .
Deity . 	See Great Architect of the Uni-
verse .
DEMIT
Delalande, Charles Florent Jacques .
A French litterateur of this century, who
was the author of many didactic and poetic
articles on Masonry inserted in the Miroir de
la Veritk, the Annales Magonniques, and other
collections . 	He was also the author of the
Defense et Apologie de la Franche-Magonnerie,
ou Refutation des Accusations dirigees centre
elle d difjerentes Epoques et par divers Autems,
a prize essay before a Lodge in Leghorn, pub-
lished in 1814 . 	He founded the archives of
the Lodge of the Philosophic Rite at Douay,
France .
Delalande, Joseph Jerome Frangols .
One of the most distinguished French astron-
omers of the eighteenth centur . 	He was
born in 1732 and died in 1807 . 	He was one of
the founders of the Grand Orient of France,
and published, in 1774, an able memoir upon
the History of Freemasonry, which was sub-
sequently incorporated in the twentieth vol-
ume of the Encyclopedie Methodique .
Delaunay, Frangois H . Stanislaus . 	A
French litterateur and historian, and author
of many works on Masonry, the principal of
which is the Tuileur des trente trois degres de
l'Ecossisme du Rite Ancien et Accepte . 	This
is a work of great erudition, and of curious re-
search in reference to the etymology of the
words of the Rite . 	These etymologies, how-
ever, are not always correct ; and, indeed, some
of them are quite absurd, betraying a want of
the proper appreciation of the construction of
Hebrew, from which language all of the words
are derived .
Delaware . 	The Grand Lodge of Dela-
ware was organized on the 7th of June, 1806 .
Its seat is at Wilmington . 	The Grand Chap-
ter was 	instituted 	in 1818, but having
suspended labor for many years, a new or-
ganization was established by the General
Grand High Priest of the United States in
1869 .
Delegates . 	Past Masters, or others, sent
by a Lodge to represent it in the Grand Lodge,
in place of the Master and Wardens, if these
are absent, are in some of the American juris-
dictions called delegates . 	The word is a
modern one, and without good authority .
Those who represent a Lodge in the Grand
Lodge, whether the Master and Wardens or
their proxies, are properly representatives .
Delta . 	A triangle . 	The name of a piece
of furniture in a Commandery of Knights
Templar, which, being of a triangular form,
derives its name from the Greek letter A,
delta . 	It is also the title given, in the French
and Scottish Rites, to the luminous triangle
which encloses the Ineffable name . 	(See
Triangle .)
Demeter . 	The Greek name 	of Ceres,
which see .
Demit . 	A Mason is said to demit from
his Lodge when he withdraws his member-
ship ; and a demit is a document granted by
the Lodge which certifies that that demission
has been accepted by the Lodge, and that the
demitting brother is clear of the books and in
good standing as a Mason . 	To demit, which

DENDERAH
is the act of the member, is, then, to resign ;
and to grant a demit, which is the act of the
Lodge, is to grant a certificate that the resigna-
tion has been accepted . It is derived from
the French reflective verb se demettre, which,
according to the dictionary of the Academy,
means "to withdraw from an office, to resign
an employment ." Thus it gives as an ex-
ample, "Il s'est demis de sa charge en faveur
d'un tel," he resigned (demitted) his office in
favor of such a one .
The application for a demit is a matter of
form, and there is no power in the Lodge to
refuse it, if the applicant has paid all his dues
and is free of all charges . It is true that a
regulation of 1722 says that no number of
brethren shall withdraw or separate them-
selves from the Lodge in which they were
made, without a dispensation ; yet it is not
plain how the law can be enforced, for Ma-
sonry being a voluntary association, there is
no power in any Lge to insist on an y
brother continuing a connection with it which
he desires to sever . (See, on this subject,
Dr . Mackey's Text Book of Masonic Jurispru-
dence, book iii ., chap . iii ., s ect . v i .)
The usual object in applying for a demit is
to enable the brother to join some other
Lodge, into which he cannot be admitted
without some evidence that he was in good
standing in his former Lodge . This is in ac-
cordance with an old law found in the Regula-
tions of 1663 in the following words : "No
person hereafter who shall be accepted a Free-
mason, shall be admitted into any Lodge or
Assembly until he has brought a certificate of
the time and place of his acceptation from the
Lodge that accepted him, unto the Master of
that limit or division where such Lodge is
kept ." 	(See the corrupt word Dimit .)
Denderah . 	A ruined town of Upper
Egypt, of great interest in consequence of its
astronomical allusions on the ceiling of the
main portico supported on twenty-four col-
umns, which is covered with figures and
hieroglyphics . This is in the principal tem-
ple, which is 220 by 50 feet . The numerous
mythological figures are arranged in zodiacal
fashion . Recent archeological travelers doubt
the reference to astronomy, in consequence of
the absence of the Crab . The temple dates
from the period of Cleopatra and the earlier
Roman emperors, and is one of the finest and
best preserved structures of the kind in Egypt .
The chief deity was Athor, the goddess of
night, corresponding with the Greek Aphro-
dite . 	(See Zodiac .)
Denmark . 	The first Masonic Lodge in
Denmark was opened in Copenhagen, by
Baron G . O . Munnich, on the 11th of Novem-
ber, 1743, under a charter, as he claimed,
from the Lodge of the Three Globes in Berlin .
In the next year a new Lodge named Zerub-
babel was formed by members who separated
from the former Lodge . Both of these bodies,
however, appear to have been imperfect in
their constitution . This imperfection was
subsequently . rectified . The first Lodge, hav-
ing changed ts name to St . Martin, received
DEPUTATION 	205
G
in 1749 a warrant from Lord Byron, who was
then Grand Master of England . Lord Cran-
stoun had previously, in October 1745,
granted a warrant to the second Lodge . In
1749 Lord Byron, Grand Master of England,
granted a patent to Count Danneskiold
Laurvig as Provincial Grand Master of Den-
mark and Norway . A Lodge had been estab-
lished at Copenhagen, by the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, under the name of "Le petit
Nombre" ; and in 1753 its Master was ele-
vated b that body to the rank of a Provincial
rand M aster . In 1792 Prince Charles be-
came the sole head of the Danish Lodges, and
the Grand Lodge of Denmark may be con-
sidered to have been then established . He
died in 1836, and the Crown Prince, after-
ward Christian VIII ., became the Protector
of the Danish Lodges, and his son and suc-
cessor, Frederick VII ., became Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge of Denmark on ascending
the throne in 1848 . 	He remodeled Danish
Masonry on the Swedish system . Now
King Frederick V III . i s Protector of the
Craft, with the Crown Prince as Grand
Master, and there are three St . Andrew's,
ten St . John's, and fifteen "Instruction"
Lodges under his rule . 	[E . L . H .]
Deposite . 	The deposite of the substitute
ark is celebrated in the degree of Select Mas-
ter, and is supposed to have taken place in
the last year of the building of Solomon's
Temple, or 1000 n .c . This is therefore adopted
as the date in Cryptic Masonry .
In the legendary history of Freemasonry as
preserved in the Cryptic degrees, two deposites
are spoken of ; the deposite of the substitute
Ark, and the deposite of the Word, both being
referred to the same year and being different
parts of one transaction . They have, there-
fore, sometimes been confounded . The de-
posite of the Ark was made by the three
Grand Masters ; that of the Word by Hiram
Abif alone .
Deposite, Year of . See Anno Deposi-
tionis .
Depth of the Lodge . 	This is said to be
from the surface to the center, and is the ex-
pression of an idea connected with the sym-
bolism of the form of the Lodge as indicating
the universality of Masonry . The oldest
definition was that the depth extended "to
the centre of the earth," which, says Dr .
Oliver, is the greatest extent that can be
imagined . (See Form of the Lodge .)
Deputation . 	The authority granted by
the Grand Master to a brother to act as
Provincial Grand Master was formerly called
a deputation . 	Thus, in Anderson's Consti-
tutions (2d edition, 1738, p . 191), it is said,
"Lovel, Grand Master, granted a deputation
to Sir Edward Matthews to be Provincial
Grand Master of Shropshire ." It was also
used in the sense in which dispensation is now
em p loyed to denote the Grand Master's
authority for opening a Lodge . In German
Masonry, a deputation is a committee of one
Lodge appointed to visit and confer with some
other Lodge .

206 	DEPUTE
Depute 	Grand Master . 	Depute is a
Scotticism used in the "Laws and Regula-
tions of the Grand Lodge of Scotland" to
designate the officer known in England and
America as Deputy Grand Master .
Deputy . 	In French Masonry, the officers
who represent a Lodge in the Grand Orient
are called its deputies . The word is also
used in another sense . When two Lodges
are affiliated, that is, have adopted a compact
of union, each appoints a deputy to represent
it at the meetings of the other . He is also
called garant d'amitik, and is entitled to a seat
in the East .
Deputy Grand Chapter . 	In the Con-
stitution adopted in January, 1798, by the
"Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the Northern
States of America," which afterward became
the "General Grand Chapter," it was pro-
vided that Grand Bodies of the system should
be established in the different States, which
should be known as "Deputy Grand Royal
Arch Chapters ." But in the succeeding
year, on the adoption of a new Constitution,
the title was changed to "State Grand Chap-
ters ." 	Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and
New York are the only States in which Deputy
Grand Chapters were organized .
Deputy Grand Master . 	The assistant
and, in his absence, the representative of the
Grand Master . The office originated in the
year 1720, when it was agreed that the Grand
Master might appoint both his Grand War-
dens and a Deputy Grand Master . 	(Con-
stitutions, 1738, p . 111 .) The object evidently
was to relieve a nobleman, who was Grand
Master, from troublesome details of office .
The Constitutions give a Deputy Grand Mas-
ter no other prerogatives than those which he
claims in the Grand Master's right . He pre-
sides over the Craft in the absence of the
Grand Master, and, on the death of that offi-
cer, succeeds to his position until a new elec-
tion . In England, and in a few States of
America, he is appointed by the Grand Mas-
ter ; but the general usage in America is to
elect him .
Deputy Lodge . In Germany, a Deputa-
tions-Loge, or Deputy Lodge, was formed by
certain members of a Lodge who lived at a
remote distance from it, and who met under
the name and by the authority of the mother
Lodge, through whom alone it was known to
the Grand Lodge, or the other Lodges . Such
bodies are not known in England or America,
and are not now so common in Germany as
formerly .
Deputy Master . In England, when a
Prince of the Blood Royal is Master of a pri-
vate Lodge, his functions are performed by an
officer appointed by him, and called a Deputy
Master, who exercises all the prerogatives and
enjo s all the privileges of a regular Master .
In Germany, the Master of every Lodge is
assisted by a Deputy Master, who is either
appointed by the Master, or elected by the
members, and who exercises the powers of the
Master in the absence of that officer .
Dermott, Laurence . 	He was at first the
DERWENTWATER
Grand Secretary, and afterward the Deputy
Grand Master, of that body of Masons who
in 1751 formed the Grand Lodge of the
"Ancients" (q . v .), stigmatizing the regular
Masons as "Moderns ." In 1756, Dermott
published the Book of Constitutions of his
Grand Lodge, under the title of Ahiman
Rezon ; or a help to all that are or would be
Free and Accepted Masons, containing the
quintessence of all that has been published on
the subject of Freemasonry . 	This work passed
through several editions, the last of which
was edited, in 1813, by Thomas Harper, the
Deputy Grand Master of the Ancient Masons,
under the title of The Constitutions of Free-
masonry, or Ahiman Rezon .
Dermott was undoubtedly the moving and
sustaining spirit of the great schism which,
from the middle of the eighteenth to the be-
ginning of the nineteenth century, divided
the Masons of England ; and his character has
not been spared by the adherents of the con-
stitutional Grand Lodge . Lawrie (Hilt ., p .
117) says of him : "The unfairness with which
he has stated the proceedings of the moderns
the bitterness with which he treats them, and
the quackery and vainglory with which he dis-
plays his own pretensions to superior knowl-
edge, deserve to be reprobated by every
class of Masons who are anxious for the
purity of their Order and the preservation of
that charity and mildness which ought to
characterize all their proceedings ." There
is perhaps much truth in this estimate of
Dermott's character . As a polemic, he was
sarcastic, bitter, uncompromising, and not alto-
gether sincere or veracious . But in intellec-
tual attainments he was inferior to none of his
adversaries, and in a philosophical apprecia-
tion of the character of the Masonic institu-
tion he was in advance of the spirit of his age .
It has often been asserted that he invented
the Royal Arch Degree by dismembering the
Third Degree, but that this is entirely un-
founded is proved by the fact that he was
exalted to the Royal Arch Degree in 1746,
while the degree was being conferred in
London before 1744 . (See Royal Arch Degree .)
[He died in 1791 .-E . L . H .1
Derwentwater . 	Charles Radcliffe, titular
Earl of Derwentwater, which title he assumed
on the death of the unmarried son of his
brother, James Radcliffe, Earl of Derwent-
water, who was executed for rebellion in 1716,
in London, was the first Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of France, to which office he was
elected on the organization of the Grand
Lodge in 1725 . Charles Radcliffe was ar-
rested with his brother, Lord Derwentwater,
in 1715, for having taken part in the rebellion
of that year to restore the house of Stuart to
the throne . Both were convicted of treason,
and the Earl suffered death, but his brother
Charles made his escape to France, and thence
to Rome, where he received a trifling pen-
sion from the Pretender . After a residence of
some years, he went to Paris, where, with
the Chevalier Maskelyne, Mr . Heguetty,
and some other Englishmen, he established a

DESAGULIERS
Lodge in the Rue des Boucheries, which was
followed by the organization of several others,
and Radcliffe, who had taken the title of
Earl of Derwentwater on the death of his
youthful nephew, the son of the last Earl, was
elected Grand Master . Leaving France for a
time, in 1736 he was succeeded in the Grand
Mastership by Lord Harnouester . [Such is
the statement usually made, but R . F . Gould,
in his Concise History of Freemasonry, suggests
that "Harnouester" is a corruption of "Dar-
wentwater" and that the two persons are
identical, the Earl of Derwentwater being
really elected G . M . in 1736 .-E . L . H .] Rad-
cliffe made many visits to England after that
time in unsuccessful pursuit of a pardon .
Finally, on the attempt of the young Pre-
tender to excite a rebellion in 1745, he sailed
from France to join him, and the vessel in
which he had embarked having been cap-
tured by an English cruiser, he was carried to
London and decapitated December 8, 1746 .
Desaguliers, John Theophilus . 	Of
those who were engaged in the revival of
Freemasonry in the beginning of the eight-
eenth century, none performed a more im-
portant part than he to whom may be well
applied the epithet of the Father of Modern
Speculative Masonry, and to whom, perhaps,
more than any other person, is the present
Grand Lodge of England indebted for its ex-
istence . A sketch of his life, drawn from the
scanty materials to be found in Masonic
records, and in the brief notices of a few of
his contemporaries, cannot fail to be interesting
to the student of Masonic history .
The Rev . John Theophilus Desaguliers,
LL .D ., F .R .S ., was born on the 12th of March,
1683, at Rochelle, in France . He was the son
of a French Protestant clergyman ; and, his
father having removed to England as a refugee
on the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, he
was educated at Christ Church, Oxford, where
he took lessons of the celebrated Keill in ex-
perimental philosophy . In 1712 he received
the degree of Master of Arts, and in the same
year succeeded . Dr . Keill as a lecturer on ex-
perimental phlosophy at Hert Hall (now
Hertford College) . In the year 1713 he re-
moved to Westminster, where he continued
his course of lectures, being the first one, it is
said who ever lectured upon physical science
in the metropolis . At this time he attracted
the notice and secured the friendship of Sir
Isaac Newton . His reputation as a philoso-
pher obtained for him a fellowship in the
Royal Society . He was also about this time
admitted to clerical orders, and appointed by
the Duke of Chandos his chaplain, who also
presented him to the living of Whitchurch .
In 1718 he received from the University of
Oxford the degree of Doctor of Civil Law, and
was presented by the Earl of Sunderland to a
living in Norfolk, which he afterward ex-
changed for one in Essex . He maintained,
however, his residence in London, where he
continued to deliver his lectures until his
death in 1744 .
His contributions to science consist of a
DESAGULIERS 	207
Treatise on the Construction of Chimneys,
translated from the French, and published in
1716 ; Lectures of Experimental Philosophy, of
which a second edition was issued in 1719 ; A
Course of Experimental Philosophy, in two
volumes, 4to, published in 1734 ; and in 1735
he edited an edition of Gregory l a Elements of
Catoptrics and Dioptries . 	He also translated
from the Latin Gravesandes' Mathematical
Elements of Natural Philosophy .
In the clerical profession he seems not to
have been an ardent worker, and his theo-
logical labors were confined to the publica-
tion of a single sermon on repentance . He
was in fact more distinguished as a scientist
than as a clergyman, and Priestly calls him
"an indefatigable experimental philosopher ."
It is, however, as a Mason that Dr . Des-
aguliers will most attract our attention .
But nothing is known as to his connection
with Freemasonry until 1719, when, he was
elevated to the throne of the Grand Lodge,
succeeding George Payne, and being thus the
third Grand Master after the revival . He
paid much attention to the interests of the
Fraternity, and so elevated the character of
the Order, that the records of the Grand Lodge
show that during his administration several
of the older brethren who had hitherto neg-
lected the Craft resumed their visits to the
Lodges, and many noblemen were initiated
into the Institution .
Dr . Desaguliers was peculiarly zealous in
the investigation and collection of the old
records of the society, and to him we are
principally indebted for the preservation of
the "Charges of a Freemason" and the
preparation of the "General Regulations,"
which are found in the first edition of the
Constitutions ; which, although attributed to
Dr . Anderson, were undoubtedly compiled
under the supervision of Desaguliers . An-
derson, we suppose, did the work, while Des-
aguliers furnished much of the material and
the thought . One of the first controversial
works in favor of Freemasonry, namely, A
Detection of Dr . Plots' Account of the Free-
masons, was also attributed to his pen ; but he
is said to have repudiated the credit of its
authorship, of which indeed the paper fur-
nishes no internal evidence . In 1721 he de-
livered before the Grand Lodge what the
records call "an eloquent oration about Ma-
sons and Masonry ." It does not appear that
it was ever published, at least no copy of it is
extant, although Moss puts the title at the
head of his Catalogue of Masonic Orations . 	It
is, indeed, the first Masonic address of which
we have any notice, and would be highly in-
teresting, because it would give us, in all
probability, as Moss remarks, the views of
the Masons of that day in reference to the de-
sign of the Institution .
After his retirement from the office of
Grand Master, in 1720, Desaguliers was three
times appointed Deputy Grand Master : in
1723, by the Duke of Wharton ; in June of
the same year, by the Earl of Dalkeith ; in
1725, by Lord Paisley ; and during this period

208 	DESAGULIERS
of service he did many things for the benefit
of the Craft - among others, initiating that
scheme of cfiarity which was subsequently
developed in what is now known in the
Grand Lodge of England as the Fund of Be-
nevolence .
After this, Dr . Desaguliers passed over to
the Continent, and resided for a few years in
Holland . In 1731 he was at The Hague, and
presided as Worshipful Master of a Lodge
organized under a special dispensation for the
purpose of initiating and passing the Duke of
Lorraine, who was subsequently Grand Duke
of Tuscany, and then Emperor of Germany .
The Duke was, during the same year, made a
Master Mason in England .
On his return to England, Desaguliers was
considered from his position in Masonry, as
the most fitting person to confer the degrees
on the Prince of Wales, who was accord-
ingly entered, passed, and raised in an oc-
casional . Lodge, held on two occasions at
Kew, over which Dr . Desaguliers presided as
Master .
Dr . Desaguliers was very attentive to his
Masonic duties, and punctual in his attend-
ance on the communications of the Grand
Lodge . 	His last recorded appearance by
name is on the 8th of February, 1742, but a
few years before his death .
Of Desaguliers' Masonic and personal char-
acter, Dr . Oliver gives, from tradition, the fol-
lowing description :
"There were many traits in his character
that redound to his immortal praise . He was
a grave man in private life, almost approach-
ing to austerity ; but he could relax in the pri-
vate recesses of a Tyled Lodge, and in com-
pany with brothers and fellows, where the ties
of social intercourse are not particularly
stringent . He considered the proceedings of
the Lodge as strictly confidential ; and being
persuaded that his brothers by initiation
actually occupied the same position as
brothers by blood, he was undiagu~sedly free
and f am iliar in the mutual interchange of un-
restrained courtesy . In the Lodge he was
jocose and free-hearted, sang his song, and had
no objection to his share of the bottle, al-
though one of the most learned and dis-
tin 	ished men of his day ." 	(Revelations of
a quare, p . 10 .)
In 1713, Desaguliers had married a daugh-
ter of William Pudsey, Esq ., by whom he had
two sons-Alexander, who was a clergyman=
and Thomas who went into the army, and
became a co'onel of artillery and an equerry
to George III .
The latter days of Dr . Desaguliers are said
to have been clouded with sorrow and poverty .
De Feller, in the Biographic Universelle, says
that he became insane, dressing sometimes as
a harlequin, and sometimes as a clown, and
that in one of these fits of insanity he died .
And Cawthorn, in a poem entitled The Vanity
of Human Enjoyments, intimates, in the fol-
lowing lines, that Desaguliers was in very
necessitous circumstances at the time of his
death :
DES
"How poor, neglected Desaguliers fell!
How he who taught two gracious kings to view
All Boyle ennobled and all Bacon knew,
Died in a cell, without a friend to save,
Without a guinea, and without a grave ."
But the accounts of the French biographer
and the English poet are most probably both
apocryphal, or, at least, much exaggerated ;
for Nichols, who knew him personally, and has
given a fine portrait of him in the ninth
volume of his Literary Anecdotes, says that he
died on the 29th of February, 1744, at the
Bedford Coffee House, and was buried in the
Savoy .
To few Masons of the present day, except
to those who have made Freemasonry a sub-
ject of especial study, is the name of Desagu-
hers very familiar . But it is well they should
know that to him, perhaps, more than to any
other man, are we indebted for the present
existence of Freemasonry as a living mstitu-
tion, for it was his learning and social position
that gave a standing to the Institution, which
brought to its support noblemen and men of
influence, so that the insignificant assemblage
of four London Lodges at the Apple-Tree
Tavern has expanded into an association
which now overshadows the entire civilized
world . And the moving spirit of all this was
John Theophilus Desaguliers .
Desert . 	The outer court of a tent in the
Order of Ishmael, or of Esau and Recon-
ciliation .
Des Etangs, Nicholas Charles . 	A Ma-
sonic reformer, who was born at Allichamps,
in France, on the 7th of September, 1766, and
died at Paris on the 6th of May, 1847 . He
was initiated, in 1797, into Masonry in the
Lodge 1'Heureuse Rencontre . He subse-
quently removed to Paris, where, in 1822 he
became the Master of the Lodge of Trmo-
sophs, which position he held for nine years .
Thinking that the ceremonies of the Masonic
system in France did not respond to the dig-
mty of the Institution, but were gradually
being diverted from its original design, he de-
termined to commence a reform in the recog-
nized dogmas, legends, and symbols, which he
proposed to present in new forms more in ac-
cord with the manners of the present age .
There was, therefore, very little of conserva-
tion in the system of Des Etangs . It was,
however, adopted for a time by many of the
Parisian Lodges, and Des Etangs was loaded
with honors . His Rite embraced five de-
grees, viz ., 1, 2, 3, the Symbolic degrees ; 4,
the Rose Croix rectified ; 5, the Grand Elect
Knight Kadosh . He gave to his system the
title of "Masonry Restored to its True Prin-
ciples," and fully developed it in his work en-
titled Veritable Lien des Peuples, which was
first published in 1823 . Des Etangs also pub-
lished in 1825 a very able reply to the calum-
nies of the Abbt Barruel, under the title of
La Franc-Magonnerie justifee de toute les
calomnies repandues contre elks . 	In the sys-
tem of Des Etangs, the Builder of the Temple
is supposed to symbolize the Good Genius of
Humanity destroyed by Ignorance, False-

DESIGN
hood, and Ambition ; and hence the Third De-
gree is supposed to typify the battle between
liberty and despotism . In the same spirit,
the justness of destroying impious kings is
considered the true dogma of the Rose Croix .
In fact, the tumults of the French Revolution,
in which Des Etangs took no inconsiderable
share, had infected his spirit with a political
temperament, which unfortunately appears
too prominently in many portions of his Ma-
sonic system . Notwithstanding that he in-
corporated two of the high degrees into his
Rite, Des Etangs considered the three Sym-
bolic degrees as the only legitimate Masonry,
and says that all other degrees have been in-
stituted by various associations and among
different peoples on occasions when it was de-
sired to revenge a death, to reestablish a
prince, or to give success to a sect .
Design of Freemasonry . 	It is neither
charity nor almsgiving, nor the cultivation of
the social sentiment ; for both of these are
merely incidental to its organization ; but it
is the search after truth, and that truth is the
unity of God and the immortality of the soul .
The various degrees or grades of initiation
represent the various stages through which
the human mind passes, and the many diffi-
culties which men, individually or collectively,
must encounter in their progress from igno-
rance to the acquisition of this truth .
Destruction of the Temple . 	The Tem-
ple of King Solomon was destroyed by
Nebuchadnezzar, King of the Chaldees, dur-
ing the reign of Zedekiah, A .m . 3416, s .c .
588, and just four hundred and sixteen years
after its dedication . Although the city was
destroyed and the Temple burnt, the Masonic
legends state that the deep foundations of the
latter were not affected . Nebuchadnezzar
caused the city of Jerusalem to be leveled to
the ground, the royal palace to be burned,
the Temple to be pillaged as well as destroyed,
and the inhabitants to be carried captive to
Babylon . These events are symbolically de-
tailed in the Royal Arch, and in allusion to
them, the passage of the Book of Chronicles
which records them is appropriately read
during the ceremonies of this part of the
degree .
Detached Degrees . 	Side or honorary
degrees outside of the regular succession of
degrees of a Rite, and which, being conferred
without the authority of a supreme controlling
body, are said to be to the side of or detached
from the regular regime . 	The word detached
is peculiar to the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite . Thus, in the circular of the
Southern Supreme Council, October 10, 1802,
is the following : "Besides those degrees which
are in regular succession, most of the Inspec-
tors are in possession of a number of detached
degrees, given in different parts of the world,
and which they generally communicate, free
of expense, to those brethren who are high
enough to understand them ."
Deuchar Charters . 	Warrants, some of
which are still in existence in Scotland, and
which are used to authorize the working of
DEVELOPMENT 	209
the Knights Tem p lar Degree by Certain En-
campments in that country . They were
designated "Deuchar Charters," on account
of Alexander Deuchar, an engraver and
heraldic writer, having been the chief pro-
moter of the Grand Conclave and its first
Grand Master . To his exertions, also, the
Supreme Grand Royal Arch Chapter of Scot-
land may be said to have owed its origin .
He appears to have become acquainted with
Knights Templarism earl y in the present cen-
tury through brethren who had been dubbed
under a warrant emanating from Dublin,
which was held by Fratres serving in the
Shro p shire Militia . This corps was quar-
tered in Edinburgh in 1798 ; and in all prob-
ability it was through the instrumentality of
its members that the first Grand Assembly of
Knights Templar was first act up in Edinburgh .
Subsequently, this gave place to the Grand
Assembly of High Knights Templar in Edin-
burgh, working under a charter, No . 31, of
the Early Grand Encampment of Ireland, of
which in 1807 Deuchar was Grand Master .
The Deuchar Charters authorized Encamp-
ments to install "Knights Templar and
Knights of St . John of Jerusalem "--one con-
dition on which these warrants were held be-
ing "that no communion or intercourse shall
be maintained with any Chapter or Encamp-
ment) or body assuming that name, holding
meetmgs of Knights Templar under a Master
Mason's Charter ." In 1837 the most of these
warrants were forfeited, and the Encamp-
ments erased from the roll of the Grand Con-
clave, on account of not making the required
returns .
Deus Meumque Jus . 	God and my right .
The motto of the Thirty-third Degree of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, and
hence adopted as that also of the Supreme
Council of the Rite . It is a Latin translation
of the motto of the royal arms of England,
which is "Dieu et mon droit," and concerning
which we have the following tradition . Rich-
ard Cceur de Leon, besieging Gisors, in Nor-
mandy, in 1198, gave, as a parole, "Dieu et
mon droit," because Philip Augustus King of
France, had, without right, taken that city,
which then belonged to England . Richard,
having been victorious with that righteous
parole, hence adopted it as his motto ; and
it was afterward marshaled in the arms of
England .
Development . 	The ancients often wrote
their books on parchment, which were made
up into a roll, hence called a volume, from
volvere, "to roll up ." Thus, he who read the
book commenced by unrolling it, a custom
still practised by the Jews in reading their
Sacred Law, and it was not until the whole
volume was unrolled' and read that he became
the master of its contents . Now, in the
Latin language, to unfold or to unroll was
devolvere, whence we get our English word
to develop . 	The figurative signification thus
elicited from etymology may be well applied
to the idea of the development of Masonry .
The system of Speculative Masonry is a vol-

210 	DEVICE
ume closely folded from unlawful eyes, and
he who would understand its true intent and
meaning must follow the old proverb, and
"commence at the beginning ." There is no
royal road of arriving at this knowledge . It
can be attained only by laborious research .
The student must begin as an Apprentice, by
studying the rudiments that are unfolded on
its first page . 	Then as a Fellow-Craft still
more of the precious writing is unrolled, and
he acquires new ideas . As a Master he con-
tinues the operation, and possesses himself of
additional material for thought . But it is
not until the entire volume lies unrolled be-
fore him, in the highest degree, and the whole
speculative system of its philosophy is lying
outspread before him, that he can pretend to
claim a thorough comprehension of its plan .
It is then only that he has solved the problem,
and can exclaim, "the end has crowned the
work ." The Mason who looks only on the
ornamental covering of the roll knows nothing
of its contents . Masonry is a scheme of de-
velopment ; and he who has learned nothing
of its design, and who is daily adding nothing
to his stock of Masonic ideas, is simply one
who is not unrolling the parchment . It is a
custom of the Jews on their Sabbath, in the
synagogue, that a member should pay for the
privilege of unrolling the Sacred Law . So,
too, the Mason, who would uphold the law of
his Institution, must pay for the privilege,
not in base coin, but in labor and research,
studying its principles, searching out its de-
sign, and imbibing all of its symbolism ; and
the payment thus made will purchase a rich
jewel .
Device . 	A term in heraldry signifying
any emblem used to represent a family, per-
son, nation, or society, and to distinguish such
from any other . The device is usually accom-
panied with a suitable motto applied in a
figurative sense, and its essence consists in a
metaphorical similitude between the thing
representing and that represented . Thus, the
device of a lion represents the courage of the
person bearing it . The oak is the device of
strength ; the palm, of victory ; the sword, of
honor ; and the eagle, of sovereign power .
The several sections of the Masonic sodality
are distinguished by appropriate devices .
1 . Ancient Craft Masonry . Besides the arms
of Speculative Masonry, which are described
in this work under the appropriate head, the
most common device is a square and compass .
2 . Royal Arch Masonry . The device is a
triple tau within a triangle .
3 . Knight Templarism . 	The ancient de-
vice, which was borne on the seals and ban-
ners of the primitive Order, was two knights
riding on one horse, in allusion to the vow of
poverty taken by the founders . The modern
device of Masonic Templarism is a cross pattee .
4 . Scottish Rite Masonry . 	The device is
a double-headed eagle crowned, holding in his
claws a sword .
5 . Royal and Select Masters . 	The device
is a trowel suspended within a triangle, in
which the allusion is to the tetragrammaton
DIALECTICS
symbolized by the triangle or delta, and the
workmen at the first Temple symbolized by
the trowel .
6 . Rose Croix Masonry . The device is a
cross charged with a rose ; at its foot an eagle
and a pelican .
7 . Knight of the Sun . 	This old degree of
philosophical Masonry has for its device rays
of light issuing from a triangle inscribed within
a circle of darkness, which "teaches us," says
Oliver, "that when man was enlightened by
the Deity with reason, he became enabled to
penetrate the darkness and obscurity which
ignorance and superstition have spread abroad
to allure men to their destruction ."
Each of these devices is accompanied by
a motto which properly forms a part of it .
These mottoes will be found under the head of
Motto .
The Italian heralds have paid peculiar at-
tention to the subject of devices, and have
established certain laws for their construction,
which are generally recognized in other coun-
tries . These laws are, 1 . That there be nothing
extravagant or monstrous in the figures .
2 . That figures be never joined together which
have no relation or affinity with one another .
3 . That the human body should never be used .
4 . That the figures should be few in number,
and 5 . That the motto should refer to the
device, and express with it a common idea .
According to P . Bouhours, the figure or em-
blem was called the body, and the motto the
soul of the device .
Devoir . 	The gilds or separate communi-
ties in the system of French compagnonage
are called devoirs . (See Compagnonage .)
Devoir of a Knight . The original meaning
of devoir is duty ; and hence, in the lan-
guage of chivalry, a knight's devoir compre-
hended the performance of all those duties to
which he was obligated by the laws of knight-
hood and the vows taken at his creation .
These were the defense of widows and or-
phans, the maintenance of justice, and the
protection of the poor and weak against the
oppressions of the strong and great . Thus,
in one of Beaumont and Fletcher's plays, the
knight says to the lady :
"Madame, if any service or devoir
Of a poor errant knight may right your wrongs,
Command it ; I am prest to give you succor,
For to that holy end I bear my armor ."
Knight of the Burning Pestle . Act II ., Scene 1 .
The devoir of a Knights Templar was orig-
i nal ly to protect pilgrims on their visit to the
Holy Land, and to defend the holy places .
The devoir of a modern Knights Templar is
to defend innocent virgins, destitute widows,
helpless orphans, and the Christian religion .
Devotions . The prayers in a Commandery
of Knights Templar are technically called the
devotions of the knights .
Dialectics . 	That branch of logic which
teaches the rules and modes of reasoning . Dia-
lecticke and dialecticus are used as corruptions
of the Latin dialectica in some of the old man-
uscript Constitutions, instead of logic, in the

DIAMOND
enumeration of the seven liberal arts and sci-
ences .
Diamond . A precious stone ; in Hebrew,
thr, . It was the third stone in the second row
of the high priest's breastplate, according to
the enumeration of Aben Ezra, and corre-
sponded to the tribe of Zebulun . But it is
doubtful whether the diamond was known in
the time of Moses ; and if it was, its great
value and its insusceptibility to the impres-
sion of a graving-tool would have rendered it
totally unfit as a stone in the breastplate . The
Vulgate more properly gives the jasper .
Dieseal . 	A term used by the Druids to
designate the circumambulation around the
sacred cairns, and is derived from two words
signifying "on the right of the sun," because
the circumambulation was always in imita-
tion of the course of the sun, with the right
hand next to the cairn or altar . (See Circum-
ambulation and Deiseil .)
Dieu et mon Drolt . 	See Dew Meumque
Jus .
Dieu le Veut . God wills it . The war-cry
of the old Crusaders, and hence adopted as a
motto in the degrees of Templarism .
Dignitaries . 	The Master, the Wardens,
the Orator, and the Secretary in a French
Lodge are called dignitaries . The correspond-
ing officers in the Grand Orient are called
Grand Digm taries . In English and American
Masonic language the term is usually re-
stricted to high officers of the Grand Lodge .
Dimit . 	A modern, American, and wholly
indefensible corruption of the technical word
Demit . 	As the use of this corrupt form is be-
nning to be very prevalent among American
asomc writers, it is proper that we should
inquire which is the correct word, Demit or
Dimit .
For almost a century and a half the Masonic
world has been content, in its technical lan-
guage, to use the word demit . 	But within a
few years, a few admirers of neologisms--men
who are always ready to believe that what is
old cannot be good, and that new fashions are
always the besthave sought to make a
change in the well-established word, and, by
altering the e in the first syllable into an i,
they make another word dimit, which they as-
sert is the right one . It is simply a question of
orthography, and must be settled first by ref-
erence to usage, and then to etymology, to
discover which of the words sustains, by its
derivation, the true meaning which is intended
to be conveyed .
it is proper, however, to premise that al-
though in the seventeenth century Sir Thomas
Browne used the word demit as a verb, mean-
ing "to depress," and Bishop Hall used dimit
as signifying to send away, yet both words are
omitted by all the early lexicographers . Nei-
ther of them is to be found in Phillips, in 1706,
nor in Blunt, in 1707, nor in Bailey, in 1732 .
Johnson and Sheridan, of a still later date,
have inserted in their dictionaries demit, but
not dimit ; 	but Walker, Richardson, and
Webster give both words, but only as verbs .
The verb to demit or to dimit may be found, but
DIMIT 	211
never the noun a demit or a dimit . As a noun
substantive, this word, however it may be
spelled, is unknown to the general language,
and is strictly a technical expression peculiar
to Freemasonry .
As a Masonic technicality we must then dis-
cuss it . And, first, as to its meaning .
Dr . Oliver, who omits dimit in his Diction-
ary of Symbolical Masonry, defines demit thus :
"A Mason is said to demit from the Order
when he withdraws from all connection with
it ." It will be seen that he speaks of it here
only as a verb, and makes no reference to its
use as a noun .
Macoy, in his Gyclopcrdia, omits demit, but
defines dimit thus : "From the Latin dimitto,
to permit to go . The act of withdrawing from
membership ." To say nothing of the incor-
rectness of this definition to which reference
will hereafter be made, tliere is in it a viola-
tion of the principles of language which is
worthy of note . No rule is better settled than
that which makes the verb and the noun de-
rived from it have the same relative significa-
tion . Thus, "to discharge" means "to dis-
miss », 	a discharge » means a dismission ,
"to approve" means "to express liking" ;
"an approval" means "an expression of
mf ` "to remit" means "to relax" ; "a re-
mission" means "a relaxation" 	so with a
thousand other instances . Row, according
to this rule, if "to demit" means "to permit
to go," then "a dimit" should mean ` a 	r-
mission to go ." The withdrawal is somet
subsequent and consequent, but it may never
take pace . According to Macoy's definition of
the verb, the granting of "a dimit" does not
necessarily lead to the conclusion that the
Mason who received it has left the Lodge . He
has only been permitted to do so . This is con-
trary to the universally accepted definition of
the word . Accordingly, when he comes to
define the word as a noun, he gives it the true
meaning, which, however, does not agree with
his previous definition as a verb .
In instituting the inquiry which of these
two words is the true one, we must first look
to the general usage of Masonic writers ; for,
after all, the rule of Horace holds good, that in
the use of words we must be governed by cus-
tom or usage,
-"whose arbitrary sway
Words and the forms of language must obey ."
If we shall find that the universal usage of
Masonic writers until a very recent date has
been to employ the form demit, then we are
bound to believe that it is the correct form,
notwithstanding a few writers have very re-
cently sought to intrude the form dimit upon
us .
Now, how stands the case? The first time
that we find the word demit used is in the sec-
ond edition of Anderson's Constitutions, Anno
1738, p . 153 . There it is said that on the 25th
of November, 1723, "it was agreed that if a
Master of a particular Lodge is deposed, or
demits, the Senior Warden shall forthwith fill
the Master's Chair ."
g

212 	DIMIT
The word continued in use as a technical
word in the Masonry of England for many
years . 	In the editions of the Constitutions
published in 1756, p . 311, the passage just
quoted is again recited, and the word demit is
again employed in the fourth edition of the
Constitutions published in 1767, p . 345 .
In the second edition of Dermott's Ahiman
Rezon, published in 1764 (I have not the first),
p . 52, and in the third edition, published in
1778, p 58, the word demit is employed . Oliver,
it will be seen, uses it in his Dictionary, pub-
lished in 1853 . But the word seems to have
become obsolete in England, and to, resign is
now constantly used by English Masonic
writers in the place of to demit .
In America, however, the word has been
and continues to be in universal use, and has
always been spelled, until very recently,
demit .
Thus we find it used by Taunehill, Manual,
1845, p . 59 ; Morris, Code of Masonic Law,
1856, p . 289 ; by Hubbard, in 1851 ; by Chase,
Digest, 1859, p . 104 ; by Mitchell, Masonic
History, vol . ii ., pp . 556, 592, and by all the
Grand Lodges whose proceedings I have ex-
amined up to the year 1560, and probably be-
yond that date .
On the contrary, the word dimit is of very
recent origin, and has been used only within a
few years . Usage, therefore, both English and
American, is clearly in favor of demit, and
dimit must be considered as an interloper, and
ought to be consigned to the tomb of the Cap-
ulets .
And now we are to, inquire whether this
usage is sustained by the principles of ety-
mology . First, let us obtain a correct defini-
tion of the word .
To demit, in Masonic language, means sim-
ply to resign . The Mason who demits from his
Lodge resigns from it . The word is used in the
exact sense, for instance in the Constitution
of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, where it is
said : "No brother shall be allowed to demit
from any Lodge unless for the purpose of unit-
ing with some other ." That is to say : "No
brother shall be allowed to resign from any
Lodge ."
Now what are the respective meanings of
demit and dimit in ordinary language?
There the words are found to be entirely
different in signification .
To demit is derived first from the Latin de-
mittere through the French demettre . In Latin
the prefixed particle de has the weight of down ;
added to the verb mittere, to send, it signifies
to let down from an elevated position to a
lower . Thus, Cxsar used it in this very sense,
when, in describing the storming of Avari-
cum, (Bel . Gal ., vii ., 28), he says that the
Roman soldiers did not let themselves down,
that is, descend from the to p of the wall to the
level ground . The French, looking to this ref-
erence to a descent from a higher to a lower po-
sition, made their verb se demettre, used in a
reflective sense, signif y to give up a post,
office, or occupation that is to say to resign
it . And thence the English use of the word is
DIMIT
reducible, which makes to demit signify to re-
sign . We have another word in our language
also derived from demettre, and in which the
same idea of resignation is apparent . It is the
word demise, which was originally used only to
express a royal death . The old maxim was
that "the king never dies ." So, instead of say-
ing "the death of the king," they said "the
demise of the king," thereby meaning his
resignation of the crown to his successor .
The word is now applied more generally, and
we speak of the demise of Mr . Pitt, or any
other person .
To dimit is derived from the Latin dimittere .
The prefixed particle di or dis has the effect of
off from, and hence dimittere means to send
away . Thus, Terence uses it to express the
meaning of dismissing or sending away an
army .
Both words are now obsolete in the English
language . They were formerly used, but in the
different senses already indicated .
Thus, Hollinshed employs demit to signify
a surrender, yielding up, or resignation of a
franchise .
Bishop Hall uses dimit to signify a sending
away of a servant by his master .
Demit, as a noun, is not known in good Eng-
lish ; the correlative nouns of the verbs to
demit and to dimit are demission and dimis-
sion . 	"A demit" is altogether a Masonic
technicality, and is, moreover, an American-
ism of very recent usage .
It is then evident that to demit is the proper
word, and that to use to dimit is to speak and
write incorrectly . When a Mason "demits
from a Lodge," we mean that he "resigns from
a Lodge," because to demit means to resign 	.
But what does anyone mean when he says
that a Mason "dimits from a Lodge"? 	To
dimit means, as we have seen, to send away,
therefore "he dimits from the Lodge" is
equivalent to saying "he sends away from the
Lodge," which of course is not only bad Eng-
lish,-but sheer nonsense . If dimit is to be used
at all, as it is an active, transitive verb, it must
be used only in that forth, and we must either
say that "a Lodge dimits a Mason " or that
"a Mason is dimitted by his Lod
I think that I have discovered the way in
which this blunder first arose . Robert Morris,
in his Code of Masonic Law, p . 289, has the fol-
lowing passage :
"A 'demit,' technically considered, is the
act of withdrawing, and applies to the Lodge
and not to the individual . A Mason cannot
demit, in the strict sense, but the Lodge may
demit (dismiss) him ."
It is asto nis hing how the author of this
passage could have crowded into so brief a
space so many violations of grammar, law, and
common sense . First, to demit means to with-
draw, and then this withdrawal is made the
act of the Lodge and not of the individual, as
if the Lodge withdrew the member instead of
the member withdrawing himself . And imme-
diately afterward, seeing the absurdity of
this doctrine, and to make the demission the
act of the Lodge, he changes the signification

DIOCESAN
of the word, and makes to demit mean to dis-
miss . Certainly it is impossible to discuss the
law of Masonic demission when such contrary
meanings are given to the word in one and the
same paragraph .
But certain wiseacres, belonging probably
to that class who believe that there is always
improvement in change, seizing upon this
latter definition of Morris, that to demit meant
to dismiss, and seeing that this was a mean-
ing which the word never had, and, from its
derivation from demittere, never could have,
changed the word from demit to dimit, which
really does have the meaning of sending away
or dismissing . But as the Masonic act of de-
mission does not mean a dismissal from the
Lodge, because that would be an expul-
sion, but simply a resignation, the word dimit
cannot properly be applied to the act .
A Mason demits from the Lodge ; he re-
signs . He takes out his demit (a strictly tech-
nical expression and altogether confined to
this country) ; he asks for and receives an ac-
ceptance of his resignation .
Diocesan . 	The Fifth Degree of Ba .hrdt's
German Union .
Dionysian Architects . 	The priests of
Bacchus, or, as the Greeks called him, Dio-
nysus, having devoted themselves to archi-
tectural pursuits, 	established about 1000
years before the Christian era a society or fra-
ternity of builders in Asia Minor, which is
styled by the ancient writers the Fraternity
of Dionysian Architects, and to this society was
exclusively confined the privilege of erecting
temples and other public buildings .
The members of the Fraternity of Dio-
nysian Architects were linked together by the
secret ties of the Dionysian mysteries, into
which they had all been initiated . Thus con-
stituted, the Fraternity was distinguished by
many peculiarities that strikingly assimilate
it to our Order . In the exercise of charity, the
"more opulent were sacredly bound to provide
for the exigencies of the poorer brethren ."
For the facilities of labor and government,
they were divided into communities called
auvoudal, each of which was governed by a
Master and Wardens . 	They held a general
assembly or grand festival once a year, which
was solemnized with great pomp and splendor .
They employed in their ceremonial observ-
ances many of the implements which are
still to be found among Freemasons, and
used, like them, a universal language, by
which one brother could distinguish another
in the dark as well as in the light, and which
served to unite the members scattered over
India, Persia, and Syria, into one common
brotherhood . The existence of this order in
Tyre, at the time of the building of the Temple,
is universally admitted ; and Hiram, the wid-
ow's son, to whom Solomon entrusted the
superintendence of the workmen, as an in-
habitant of Tyre, and as a skilful architect
and cunning and curious workman, was, very
probably, one of its members . Hence, we may
legitimately suppose that the Dionysians were
sent by Hiram, King of Tyre, to assist King
DIONYSIAN 	213
Solomon in the construction of the house he
was about to dedicate to Jehovah, and that
they communicated to their Jewish fellow-
laborers a knowledge of the advantages of
their Fraternity, and invited them to a par-
ticipation in its mysteries and privileges . In
this union, however, the apocryphal legend of
the Dionysians would naturally give way to
the true legend of the Masons, which was un-
happily furnished by a melancholy incident
that occurred at the time . The latter part of
this statement is, it is admitted, a mere spec-
ulation, but one that has met the approval of
Lawrie, Oliver, and our best writers ; and
although this connection between the Dio-
nysian Architects and the builders of King Sol-
omon may not be supported by documentary
evidence, the traditionary theory is at least
plausible, and offers nothing which is either
absurd or impossible . If accepted, it supplies
the necessary link which connects the Pagan
with the Jewish mysteries .
The history of this association subsequent
to the Solomonic era has been detailed by
Masonic writers, who have derived their in-
formation sometimes from conjectural and
sometimes from historical authority . 	About
300 years B .c ., they were incorporated by the
kings of Pergamos at Teos, which was as-
signed to them as a settlement, and where
they continued for centuries as an exclusive
society engaged in the erection of works of
art and the celebration of their mysteries .
Notwithstanding the edict of the Emperor
Theodosius which abolished all mystical asso-
ciations, they are said to have continued their
existence down to the time of the Crusades,
and during the constant communication which
was kept u p between the two continents
passed over from Asia to Europe, where they
became known as 	the "Traveling Free-
masons" of the Middle Ages, into whose
future history they thus became merged .
Dionysian Mysteries . 	These mysteries
were celebrated throughout Greece and Asia
Minor, but principally at Athens, where the
years were numbered by them . They were in-
stituted in honor of Bacchus, or, as the Greeks
called him, Dionysus, and were introduced
into Greece from Egypt . In these mysteries,
the murder of Dionysus by the Titans was
commemorated in which legend he is evi-
dently identified with the Egyptian Osiris, who
was slain byhis brotherTyphon . The aspirant,
in the ceremonies through which he passed,
represented the murder of the god and his
restoration to life, which, says the Baron de
Sacy (Notes on Sainte-Croix, ii ., 86), were the
subject of allegorical explanations altogether
analogous to those which were given to the
rape of Proserpine and the murder of Osiris .
The commencement of the mysteries was
signalized by the consecration of an e gg , in
allusion to the mundane egg from which all
things were supposed to have sprung . . The
candidate having been first purified by water,
and crowned with a myrtle branch, was in-
troduced into the vestibule, and there clothed
in the sacred habiliments . He was then de-

214 	DIONYSUS
livered to the conductor, who, after the mystic
warning, ENLls, EKCfs, gave, $'ii Xo[, " Depart
hence, all ye profane! " exhorted the candidate
to exert all his fortitude and courage in the
dangers and trials through which he was
about to pass . He was then led through a
series of dark caverns, mart of the ceremonies
which Stobieus calls 	'a rude and fearful
march through night and darkness ." During
this passage he was terrified by the howling
of wild beasts, and other fearful noises ; arti-
ficial thunder reverberated through the sub-
terranean apartments, and transient flashes of
lightning revealed monstrous apparitions to
his sight . In this state of darkness and terror
he was kept for three days and nights, after
which he commenced the aphanism or mysti-
cal death of Bacchus . He was now placed on
the pastor or couch, that is, he was confined
in a solitary cell, where he could reflect seri-
ously on the nature of the undertaking in
which he was engaged . During this time, he
was alarmed with the sudden crash of waters,
which was intended to represent the deluge .
Typhon, searching for Osiris, or Dionysus, for
they are here identical, discovered the ark in
which he had been secreted, and, tearing it
violently asunder, scattered the limbs of his
victim upon the waters . The aspirant now
heard the lamentations which were instituted
for the death of the god . Then commenced the
search of Rhea for the remains of Dionysus .
The apartments were filled with shrieks and
groans ; the initiated mingled with their howl-
ings of despair the frantic dances of the Cory-
bantes ; everything was a scene of distraction,
until, at a signal from the hierophant, the
whole drama changed-the mourning was
turned to joy ; the mangled body was found ;
and the aspirant was released from his confine-
ment,theshoutsof ESpiilcaμev, EoyXafpwμev,
"We have found it ; let us rejoice together ."
The candidate was now made to descend into
the infernal regions, where he beheld the tor-
ments of the wicked and the rewards of the
virtuous . It was now that he received the
lecture explanatory of the Rites, and was
invested with the tokens which served the ini-
tiated as a means of recognition . He then un-
derwent a lustration, after which he was intro-
duced into the holy place, where he received
the name of epopt, and was fully instructed in
the doctrine of the mysteries, which consisted
in a belief in the existence of one God and a
future state of rewards and punishments .
These doctrines were inculcated by a variety
of significant symbols . After the perform-
ance of these ceremonies, the aspirant was dis-
missed, and the Rites concluded with the pro-
nunciation of the mystic words, Konx Ompax .
Sainte-Croix (Myst . du Pag ., ii ., 90), says that
the murder of Dionysus by the Titans was
only an allegory of the physical revolutions of
the world ; but these were in part, in the an-
cient initiations, significant of the changes of
life and death and resurrection .
Dionysus . The Greek name of Bacchus .
(See Dionysian Mysteries .)
Diploma . 	Literally means something
DISCALCEATION
folded . From the Greek, ScrAAw . The word
is applied in Masonry to the certificates
granted by Lodges, Chapters and Comman-
deries to their members, whic i should always
be written on parchment . The more usual
word, however, is Certificate, which see . In
the Scottish Rite they are called Patents .
Director of Ceremonies, Grand . 	An
officer in the Grand Lodge of England, who
has the arrangement and direction of all pro-
cessions and ceremonies of the Grand Lodge
and the care of the regalia, clothing, insignia,
and jewels belonging to the Grand Lodge .
His jewel is two rods in saltire, tied by a rib-
bon .
Directory . In German Lodges, the Mas-
ter and other officers constitute a council of
management, under the name of Directorium
or Directory .
Directory, Roman Helvetic . The name
assumed in 1739 by the Supreme Masonic au-
thority at Lausanne, in Switzerland . (See
Switzerland .)
Discalceation, Rite of . 	The ceremony of
taking off the shoes, as a token of respect,
whenever we are on or about to approach holy
ground . 	It is referred to in Exodus iii . 5,
where the angel of the Lord, at the burning
bush, exclaims to Moses : "Draw not nigh
hither ; put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for
the place whereon thou standest is holy
ground ." It is again mentioned in Joshua v .
15, in the following words : "And the captain
of the Lord's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy
shoe from off thy foot ; for the place whereon
thou standest is holy ." And lastly, it is al-
luded to in the injunction given in Ecclesi-
astes v . 1 : "Keep thy foot when thou goest
to the house of God ."
The Rite, in fact, always was, and still is,
used among the Jews and other Oriental na-
tions when entering their temples and other
sacred edifices . It does not seem to have been
derived from the command given to Moses ;
but rather to have existed as a religious cus-
tom from time immemorial, and to have been
borrowed, as Mede supposes, by the Gentiles,
through tradition, from the patriarchs .
The direction of Pythagoras to his disciples
was in these words : 	AxenrAwos Bde ical
ap Loabvec-that is, "Offer sacrifice and wor-
ship with thy shoes off ."
Justin Martyr says that those who came to
worship in the sanctuaries and temples of the
Gentiles were commanded by their priests to
put off their shoes .
Drusius, in his Notes on the Book of Joshua,
says that among most of the Eastern nations
it was a pious duty to tread the pavement of
the temple with unshod feet .
Maimonides, the great expounder of the
Jewish law, asserts (Beth Habbechirah, c .
vii .) that "it was not lawful for a man to
come into the mountain of God's house with
his shoes on his feet, or with his staff, or in his
working garments, or with dust on his feet ."
Rabbi Solomon, commenting on the com-
mand in Leviticus xix . 30, "Ye shall reverence
my sanctuary," makes the same remark in

DISCIPLINA
relation to this custom . On this subject, Oli-
ver (Hist . Landm ., ii ., 471) observes : "Now
the act of going with naked feet was always
considered a token of humility and reverence,
and the priests, in the temple worship, always
officiated with feet uncovered, although it was
frequently injurious to their health ."
Mede quotes Zago Zaba, an Ethiopian
bishop, who was ambassador from David,
King of Abyssinia, to John III ., of Portugal, as
saying 	"We are not permitted to enter the
church except barefooted ."
The Mohammedans, when about to perform
their devotions, always leave their slippers at
the door of the mosque . The Druids practised
the same custom whenever they celebrated
their sacred rites ; and the ancient Peruvians
are said always to have left their shoes at the
porch when they entered the magnificent tem-
ple consecrated to the worship of the sun .
Adam Clarke (Comm . on Exod .) thinks that
the custom of worshiping the Deity bare-
footed, was so general among all nations of
antiquity, that he assigns it as one of his thir-
teen proofs that the whole human race have
been derived from one family .
Finally, Bishop Patrick, speaking of the ori-
gin of this Rite, says, in his Commentaries :
"Moses did not give the first beginning to this
Rite, but it was derived from the patriarchs
before him, and transmitted to future times
from that ancient, general tradition ; for we
find no command in the law of Moses for the
priests performing the service of the temple
without shoes, but it is certain they did so
from immemorial custom ; and so do the Mo-
hammedans and other nations at this day ."
Discipiina Arcani . 	See Discipline of the
Secret .
Discipline . 	This word is used by Masons,
in its ecclesiastical sense, to signify the exe-
cution of the laws by which a Lge is gov-
erned and the infliction of the penalties en-
joined against offenders who are its members,
or, not being members, live within its juris-
diction . 	To discipline a Mason is to subject
him to punishment . 	(See Jurisdiction and
Punishments .)
Discipline of the Secret . 	There existed
in the earlier ages of the Christian church a
mystic and secret worship, from which a por-
tion of the congregation was peremptorily ex-
cluded, and whose privacy was guarded, with
the utmost care, from the obtrusive eyes of all
who had not been duly initiated into the sa-
cred rites that qualified them to be present .
This custom of communicating only to a
portion of the Christian community the more
abstruse doctrines and more sacred ceremo-
nies of the church, is known among ecclesi-
astical writers by the name of "DISCIPLINA
ARCANI," or "The Discipline of the Secret ."
Converts were permitted to attain a knowl-
edge of all the doctrines, and participate in the
sacraments of the church, only after a long and
experimental probation . The young Chris-
tian, like the disciple of Pythagoras, was made
to pass through a searching ordeal of time and
patience, by which his capacity, his fidelity,
DISCIPLINE 	215
and his other qualifications were strictlytested .
For this purpose, different ranks were insti-
tuted in the congregation . The lowest of
these were the Catechumens . These were oc-
cupied in a study of the elementary principles
of the Christian religion . Their connection
with the church was not consummated by
baptism, to which rite they were not admitted,
even as spectators, it being the symbol of a
higher degree ; but their initiation was accom-
panied with solemn ceremonies, consisting of
prayer, signing with the cross, and the imposi-
tion of hands by the priest . The next degree
was that of the Competentes, or seekers .
When a Catechumen had exhibited satis-
factory evidences of his proficiency in religious
knowledge, he petitioned the Bishop for the
Sacrament of baptism . His name was then
registered in the books of the church . After
this registration, the candidate underwent the
various ceremonies appropriate to the degree
upon which he was about to enter . He was
examined by the bishop as to his attainments
in Christianity, and, if approved, was exor-
cised for twenty days, during which time he
was subjected to rigorous fasts, and, having
made confession, the necessary penance was
prescribed . He was then, for the first time, in-
structed in the words of the Apostles' creed, a
symbol of which the Catechumens were en-
tirely ignorant .
Another ceremony peculiar to the Compe-
tentes was that of going about with their
faces veiled . St . Augustine explains the cere-
mony by Saying that the Competentes went
veiled in public as an image of the slavery of
Adam after his expulsion from Paradise, and
that, after baptism, the veils were taken away
as an emblem of the liberty of the spiritual
life which was obtained by the sacrament of
regeneration . 	Some other significant cere-
monies, but of a less important character,
were used, and the Competent, having passed
through them all, was at length admitted to
the highest degree .
The Fideles, or Faithful, constituted the
Third Degree or order . Baptism was the cere-
mony by which the Competentes, after an ex-
amination into their proficiency, were ad-
mitted into this degree . "The were thereby,"
says Bingham, "made compete and perfect
Christians, and were, upon that account, dig-
nified with several titles of honor and marks of
distinction above the Catechumens ." They
were called Illuminati, or Illuminated, because
they had been enlightened as to those secrets
which were concealed from the inferior orders .
They were also called Initiati, or Initiated, be-
cause they were admitted to a knowledge of
the sacred mysteries ; and so commonly was
this name in use, that, when Chrysostom and
the other ancient writers spoke of their con-
cealed doctrines, they did so in ambiguous
terms, so as not to be understood by the Cate-
chumens, excusing themselves for their brief
allusions, by saying, "the Initiated know what
we mean ." And so complete was the under-
standing of the ancient Fathers of a hidden
mystery, and an initiation into them, that

216 	DISCIPLINE
St . Ambrose has written a book, the title of
which is, Concerning those who are Initiated
into the Mysteries . 	They were also called the
Perfect, to intimate that they had attained to
a perfect knowledge of all the doctrines and
sacraments of the church .
There were certain prayers, which none but
the Faithful were permitted to hear . Among
these was the Lord's praper, which, for this
reason, was commonly called Oratio Fidelium,
or, "The Prayer of the Faithful ." They were
also admitted to hear discourses upon the
most profound mysteries of the church, to
which the Catechumens were strictly forbid-
den to listen . St . Ambrose, in the book written
by him to the Initiated, says that sermons on
the subject of morality were daily preached to
the Catechumens ; but to the Initiated they
gave an explanation of the Sacraments, which,
to have spoken of to the unba tized, would
have rather been like a betrayal of mysteries
than instruction . And St . Augustine, in one of
his sermons to the Faithful, says : "Having
now dismissed the Catechumens, you alone
have we retained to hear us, because, in addi-
tion to those things which belong to all Chris-
tians in common, we are now about to speak in
an especial manner of the Heavenly Mysteries,
which none can hear except those who, by the
gift of the Lord, are able to comprehend them ."
The mysteries of the church were divided
like the Ancient Mysteries, into the lesser anc
the greater . The former was called "Missa
Catechumenorum," or the Mass of the Cate-
chumens, and the latter, "Missa Fidelium,"
or the Mass of the Faithful . The public service
of the church consisted of the reading of the
Scripture, and the delivery of a sermon, which
was entirely of a moral character . These being
concluded, the lesser mysteries, or Mass of the
Catechumens, commenced . The deacon pro-
claimed in a loud voice, " Ne quis audientium,
ne quis infidelium," that is, "Let none who are
simply hearers, and let no infidels be present ."
All then who had not acknowledged their
faith in Christ by placing themselves among
the Catechumens, and all Jews and Pagans,
were caused to retire, that the Mass of the
Catechumens might begin . And now, for bet-
ter security, a deacon was placed at the men's
door and a subdeacon at the women's, for the
deacons were the door-keepers and, in fact,
received that name in the Greec church . The'
Mass of the Catechumens-which consisted
almost entirely of prayers, with the Episcopal
benediction-was then performed .
This part of the service having been con-
cluded, the Catechumens were dismissed by
the deacons, with the expression, "Catechu-
mens, depart in peace ." The Competentes,
however, or those who had the Second or in-
termediate degree, remained until the prayers
for those who were possessed of evil spirits,
and the supplications for themselves, were
pronounced . After this, they too were dis-
missed, and none now remaining in the church
but the Faithful, the Missa Fidelium, or
greater mysteries, commenced .
The formula of dismission used by the dea-
DISPENSATION
con on this occasion was : "Holy things for the
holy, let the dogs depart," Sancta sanetis, foris
canes .
The Faithful then all repeated the creed,
which served as an evidence that no intruder
or uninitiated person was present ; because the
creed was not revealed to the Catechumens,
but served as a password to prove that its pos-
sessor was an initiate . After prayers had been
offered up-which, however, differed from the
supplications in the former part of the service,
by the introduction of open allusions to the
most abstruse doctrines of the church, which
were never named in the presence of the Cate-
chumens-the oblations were made, and the
Eucharistical Sacrifice, or Lord's Supper, was
celebrated . Prayers and invocations followed,
and at length the service was concluded, and
the assembly was dismissed by the benedic-
tion, "Depart in peace ."
Bmgham records the following rites as hav-
ing been concealed from the Catechumens,
and entrusted, as the sacred mysteries, only to
the Faithful : the manner of receiving bap-
tism ; the ceremony of confirmation ; the or-
dination of priests ; the mode of celebrating
the Eucharist ; the liturgy, or Divine service ;
and the doctrine of the Trinity, the creed, and
the Lord's prayer, which last, however, were
begun to be explained to the Competentes .
Such was the celebrated Discipline of the
Secret in the early Christiah church . That its
origin, so far as the outward form was con-
cerned, is to be found in the Mysteries of
Paganism, there can be no doubt, as has been
thus expressed by the learned Mosheim :
"Religion having thus, in both its branches,
the speculative as well as the practical, as-
sumed a twofold character,-the one public or
common, the other private or mysterious,-it
was not long before a distinction of a similar
kind took place also in the Christian disci-
pline and form of divine worship ; for, observ-
ing that in Egypt, as well as in other countries,
the heathen worshippers, in addition to their
public religious ceremonies,-to which every-
one was admitted without distinction,-had
certain secret and most sacred rites, to which
they gave the name of "mysteries," and at the
celebration of which none but persons of the
most approved faith and discretion were per-
mitted to be present, the Alexandrian Chris-
tians first, and after them others, were be-
guiled into a notion that they could not do
better than make the Christian discipline ac-
commodate itself to this model ."
Discovery of the Body . 	See Euresis .
Discovery, Year of the . 	"Anne, Inven-
tionis," or "in the Year of the Discovery," is
the style assumed by the Royal Arch Masons,
in commemoration of an event which took
place soon after the commencement of the re-
building of the Temple by Zerubbabel .
Dispensation . 	A permission to do that
which, without such permission, is forbidden
by the Constitutions and usages of the Order .
Du Cange (Glossarium) defines a dispensa-
tion to be a prudent relaxation of a general
law . Provida juris communis relaxatio . While

DISPENSATION
showing how much the ancient ecclesiastical
authorities were opposed to the granting of
dispensations, since they preferred to pardon
the offense after the law had been violated,
rather than to give a previous license for its
violation he adds, "but however much the
Roman 13ontiffs and pious Bishops felt of rev-
erence for the ancient Regulations, they were
often compelled to depart in some measure
from them, for the utility of the church ; and
this milder measure of acting the jurists called
a dispensation ."
This power to dispense with the provisions
of law in particular cases appears to be inher-
ent in the Grand Master ; because, although
frequently referred to in the old Regulations,
it always is as if it were a power already in ex-
istence, and never by way of a new grant .
There is no record of any Masonic statute or
constitutional provision conferring this prerog-
ative in distinct words . The instances, how-
ever, in which this prerogative may be exer-
cised are clearly enumerated in various places
of the Old Constitutions, so that there can be
no difficulty in understanding to what extent
the prerogative extends .
The power of granting dispensations is con-
fided to the Grand Master, or his representa-
tive, but should not be exercised except on
extraordinary occasions, or for excellent rea-
sons . The dispensing power is confined to only
four circumstances : 1 . A Lodge cannot be
opened and held unless a Warrant of Consti-
tution be first granted by the Grand Lodge ;
but the Grand Master may issue his dispensa-
tion, empowering a constitutional number of
brethren to open and hold a Lodge until the
next communication of the Grand Lodge .
At this communication, the dispensation of
the Grand Master is either revoked or con-
firmed . A Lodge under dispensation is not per-
mitted to be represented, nor to vote in the
Grand Lodge . 2 . Not more than five candi-
dates can be made at the same communication
of a Lodge ; but the Grand Master, on the
showing of sufficient cause, may extend to a
Lodge the privilege of making as many more
as he may think pro p er . 3 . No Brother can,
at the same time, belon g to two Lodges within
three miles of each other . But the Grand
Master may dispense with this regulation also .
4 . Every Lodge must elect and install its offi-
cers on the constitutional night, which, in most
Masonic jurisdictions, precedes the anniver-
sary of St . John the Evangelist . Should it,
however, neglect this duty, or should any offi-
cer die, or be expelled, or removed permanently,
no subsequent election or installation can take
place, except under dispensation of the Grand
Master .
Dispensation, Lodges under . See Lodge .
Dispensations of Religion . 	An attempt
has been made to symbolize the Pagan, the
Jewish, and the Christian dispensations by a
certain ceremony of the Master's Degree which
dramatically teaches the resurrection of the
body and the immortality of the soul . The
reference made in this ceremony to portions of
the First, Second, and Third degrees is used to
DISPENSATIONS 	217
demonstrate the difference of the three dis-
pensations in the reception of these two dog-
mas . It is said that the unsuccessful effort in
the Entered Apprentice's Degree refers to the
heathen dispensation, where neither the res-
urrection of the body nor the immortality of
the soul was recognized ; that the second un-
successful effort in the Fellow-Craft's Degree
refers to the Jewish dispensation, where,
though the resurrection of the body was un-
known, the immortality of the soul was dimly
hinted ; and that the final and successful effort
in the Master's Degree symbolizes the Chris-
tian dispensation, in which, through the teach-
ings of the Lion of the tribe of Judah, both the
resurrection of the body and the immortality
of the soul were clearly brought to light .
This symbolism, which was the invention of a
peripatetic lecturer in the South about fifty
years ago, is so forced and fanciful in its char-
acter, that it did not long survive the local and
temporary teachings of its inventor, and is
only preserved here as an instance of how
symbols, like metaphors, may sometimes run
But there is another symbolism of the three
degrees, as illustrating three dispensations,
which is much older, having originated among
the lecture-makers of the eighteenth century,
which for a long time formed a portion of the
authorized ritual, and is still repeated with
approbation by some distinguished writers .
In this the three de gr ees are said to be symbols
in the progressive knowledge which they im-
part of the Patriarchal, the Mosaic, and the
Christian dispensations .
The First, or Entered Apprentice's Degree,
in which but little Masonic light is communi-
cated, and which, indeed, is only preparatory
and introductory to the two succeedin g de-
grees, is said to symbolize the first, or Patri-
archal dispensation, the earliest revelation,
where the knowledge of God was necessarily
imperfect, His worship only a few simple rites
of devotion, and the religious dogmas merely
a general system of morality . The Second, or
Fellow-Craft's Degree,is symbolic of the second
or Mosaic dispensation, in which, while there
were still many imperfections, there was also
a great increase of religious knowled g e, and a
nearer approximation to Divine truth, with a
promise in the future of a better theodicy .
But the Third, or Master Mason's Degree,
which, in its original conception, before it was
dismembered by the innovations of the Royal
Arch, was perfect and complete in its consum-
mation of all Masonic light, symbolizes the last
or Christian dispensation, where the great and
consoling doctrine of the resurrection to eter-
nal life is the crowning lesson taught by its
Divine founder . This subject is very full y
treated by the Rev . James Watson, in an ad-
dress delivered at Lancaster, Eng ., in 1795,
and contained in Jones's Masonic Miscellanies,
p . 245 ; better, I think, by him than even by
Hutchinson .
Beautiful as this symbolism may be, and
a p propriately fitting in all its parts to the laws
of symbolic science, it is evident that its

218 	DISPERSION
origin cannot be traced farther back than to
the period when Masonry was first divided
into three distinctive degrees ; nor could it
have been invented later than the time when
Masonry was deemed, if not an exclusively
Christian orga niz ation at least to be founded
on and fitly illustrated by Christian dogmas .
At present, this symbolism, though preserved
in the speculations of such Christian writers
as Hutchinson and Oliver, and those who are
attached to their peculiar school, finds no place
in the modern cosmopolitan rituals . It may
belong, as an explanation, to the history of
Masonry, but can scarcely make a part of its
symbolism .
Dispersion of Mankind . 	The dispersion
of mankind at the tower of Babel and on the
plain of Shinar, which is recorded in the Book
of Genesis, has given rise to a Masonic tradi-
tion of the following purport . The knowledge
of the great truths of God and immortality
were known to Noah, and by him communi-
cated to his immediate descendants, the Nos,
chide or Noachites, by whom the true worship
continued to be cultivated for some time after
the subsidence of the deluge ; but when the
human race were dispersed, a portion lost sight
of the Divine truths which had been communi-
cated to them from their common ancestor,
and fell into the most grievous theological
errors, corrupting the purity of the worship
and the orthodoxy of the religious faith which
they had primarily received .
These truths were preserved in their in-
tegrity by but a very few in the 	atriarchal
line, while still fewer were enable to retain
only dim and glimmering portions of the true
light .
The first class was confined to the direct
descendants of Noah, and the second was to be
found among the priests and philosophers
and, perhaps, still later, among the poets of
the heathen nations, and among those whom
they initiated into the secrets of these truths .
The system of doctrine of the former class
has been called by Masonic writers the "Pure
or Primitive Freemasonry" of antiquity, and
that of the latter class the "Spurious Free-
masonry" of the same period . 	These terms
were first used by Dr . Oliver, and are intended
to refer-the word pure to the doctrines taught
by the descendants of Noah in the Jewish line,
and the word spurious to those taught by his
descendants in the heathen or Gentile line .
Disputes . 	The spirit of all the Ancient
Charges and Constitutions is, that disputes
among Masons should be settled by an appeal
to the brethren, to whose award the dispu-
tants were required to submit . Thus, in an Old
Record of the fifteenth century, it is pro-
vided, among other charges, that "yf any dis-
corde schall be bitwene hym and his felows, he
schall abey hym mekely and be stylle at the
byddyng of his Master or of the Wardeyne of
his Master, in his Master's absens, to the holy
day folowyng, and that he accorde then at the
dispocition of his felows ." A similar regula-
tion is to be found in all the other old Charges
and Constitutions, and is continued in opera,
DODD'S
tion at this day by the Charges approved in
1722, which express the same idea in more
modern language .
Distinctive Title . 	In the rituals, all
Lodges are called Lodges of St . John, but
every Lodge has also another name by which
it is distinguished. This is called its distinc-
tive title . This usage is preserved in the diplo-
mas of the continental Masons, especially the
French, where the specific name of the Lodge
is always given as well as the general title of
St . John, which it has in common with all
other Lodges . Thus, a diploma issued by a
French Lodge whose name on the Register of
the Grand Orient would perhaps be La Write,
will purport to have been issued by the Lodge
of St . John, under the distinctive title of La
Verite, "Par la Loge de St . Jean sub la title
distinctive de la Verity ." The expression is
never used in English or American diplomas .
Distress, Sign of . 	See Sign of Distress .
District Deputy Grand Master . An offi-
cer appointed to inspect old Lodges, conse-
crate new ones, install their officers, and exer-
cise a general supervision over the Fraternity
in the districts where, from the extent of the
jurisdiction, the Grand Master or his Deputy
cannot conveniently attend in person . He is
considered as a Grand Officer, and as the rep-
resentative of the Grand Lodge in the district
in which he resides . In England, officers of
this description are called Provincial Grand
Masters .
District Grand Lodges . 	In the Consti-
tution of the Grand Lodge of England, Grand
Lodges in colonies and foreign parts are called
District Grand Lodges, to distinguish them
from Provincial Grand Lodges in England .
Diu . 	(The "Shining Light of Heaven .")
An Indian word applied to the Supreme God,
of the same signification as the Greek words
Zeus and Theos, and the Latin Deus Jupiter
(Jovis) ; in Sanskrit, Dewas ; in Lettis'h, Dews,
in Gothic, Thius ; and in North German, Tyr .
Divining-Rod or Pedum . 	The Mod-
erator, or Royal Master was imaged
with the ureus on his forehead, the
pedum and the whip between his
knees . The Divining-Rod 	was a
symbol of moderation . 	7 .1, Heq,
signifies a law, a statute, or custom ;
77 M , Hegq, a legislator, a scepter, a
king, 	moderator, and a 	pedum .
Hence, a staff . 	It is represented by a
crook surmounted on a pole . 	The
rod of the Rose Croix Knight is dis-
similar ; it is straight, white, like a
wand, and yet may be used as a help-
ing or leaning staff .
Documents, Three Oldest . See Krause .
Dodd's Constitutions . This is a printed
pamphlet of twenty pages, in quarto, the title
being The beginning and the first foundation of
the Most Worthy Craft of Masonry ; with the
Charges thereunto belonging . By a deceased
Brother, for the benefit of his widow . London :
printed for Mrs . Dodd at the Peacock without
Temple Bar . 	1739 . 	Price, sixpence .

DOG
Probablythis pamphlet was printed from the
Spencer MS . ; it is very rare, but the Grand
Lodges of England and Iowa each have a copy,
and so had Mr . Carson of Cincinnati, who re-
printed 125 copies of it in 1886 ; it has also
been reproduced in facsimile by the Quatuor
Coronati Lodge in Volume IV . of their Ma-
sonic Reprints . 	[E . L . H .]
Dog . A symbol in the higher degrees .
(See Cynocephalus .)
Dolmen . A name given in France to the
Celtic stone tables termed in England "crom-
lechs ."
Domatie . 	At one time, especially in Scot-
land, Operative Masons were styled "Do-
matic," while the Speculative ones were known
as "Geomatic" ; but the origin and derivation
of the terms are unknown . 	[E . L . H .]
Domine Deus Meus . 	(Adonai elohai .)
Found in the Third Degree of the Scottish
Rite .
Dominicans, Order 	of . 	Founded at
Toulouse, in 1215, by Dominic (Domingo) de
Guzman, who was born at Calahorra, in Old
Castile, 1170 . He became an itinerant to
convert the heretical Albigenses, and estab-
lished the Order for that purpose and the cure
of souls . The Order was confirmed by
Innocent III . and Honorius III ., in 1216 .
Dress, white garment, with black cloak and
pointed cap . Dominic died at Bologna, 1221,
and was canonized by Gregory I X . i n 1233 .
Dominican Republic . 	Masonry, in the
Dominican Republic, has for its center the Na-
tional Grand Orient, which possesses the
supreme authority and which practises the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite . The
Grand Orient is divided into a National Grand
Lodge, under which are fifteen Symbolic
Lodges ; a sovereign Grand Chapter General,
under which are all Chapters ; and a Supreme
Council,' which controls the higher degrees
of the Rite .
San Domingo was the headquarters of Morin
(q . v .) in 1763, when he was establishing the
Scottish Rite in America .
Donats . A class of men who were attached
to the Order of St . John of Jerusalem, or
Knights of Malta . They did not take the
vows of the Order, but were employed in the
different offices of the convent and hospital .
In token of their connection with the Order,
they wore what was called the demi-cross .
(See Knights of Malta .)
Door . Every well-constructed Lodge room
should be provided with two doors-one on
the left hand of the Senior Warden, communi-
cating with the preparation . room, the other
on his right hand, communicating with the
Tiler's apartment . The former of these is
called the inner door, and is under the charge
of the Senior Deacon ; the latter is called the
outer door, and is under the charge of the
Junior Deacon . In a well-furnished Lodge,
each of these doors is provided with two
knockers, one on the inside and the other on
the outside ; and the outside door has some-
times a small aperture in the center to facili-
tate communications between the Junior
DOUBLE 	219
Deacon and the Tiler . This, however, is a
modern innovation, and its propriety and
expediency are very doubtful . No communi-
cation ought legally to be held between the
inside and the outside of the Lodge except
through the door, which should be opened
only of ter regular alarm duly reported, and on
the order of the Worshipful Master .
Doric Order . The oldest and most original
of the three Grecian orders . It is remarkable
for robust solidity in the column, for massive
grandeur in the entablature, and for har-
monious simplicity in its construction . The
distinguishing characteristic of this order is
the want of a base . The flutings are few
large, and very little concave . The capita!
has no astragal, but only . one or more fillets,
which separate the flutings from the torus .
The column of strength which supports the
Lodge is of the Doric order, and its appro-
priate situation and symbolic officer are m the
West . 	(See Orders of Architecture .)
Dormant Lodge . 	A Lodge whose Charter
has not been revoked, but which has ceased to
meet and work for a long time, is said to be
dormant . It can be restored to activity only
by the authority of the Grand Master or the
Grand Lodge on the petition of some of its
members, one of whom, at least, ought to be a
Past Master .
Dormer . 	In the Lectures, according to
the present English system, the ornaments of
a Master Mason's Lodge are said to be the
porch, dormer, and square pavement . The
dormer is the window which is supposed to
give light to the Holy of Holies . In the
Glossary of Architecture, a dormer is defined
to be a window pierced through a sloping roof,
and placed in a small gable which rises on the
side of the roof . This symbol is not preserved
in the American system .
Dotage . 	The regulations of Masonry for-
bid the initiation of an old man in his dotage ;
and very properly, because the imbecility of
his mind would prevent his comprehension of
the truths presented to him .
Double Cube . A cubical figure, whose
length is equal to twice its breadth and
height . Solomon's Temple is said to have
been of this figure, and hence it has sometimes
been adopted as the symbol of a Masonic
Lodge . 	Dr . Oliver (Diet . Symb . Mas .) thus
describes the symbolism of the double cube :
"The heathen deities were many of them
represented by a cubical stone . Pausanius
informs us that a cube was the symbol of
Mercury, because, like the cube, 	repre-
sented Truth . In Arabia, a black stone in
the form of a double cube was reputed to be
possessed of many occult virtues . Apollo
was sometimes worshiped under the symbol
of a square stone ; and it is recorded that when
a fatal pestilence raged at Delphi, the oracle
was consulted as to the means proper to be
adopted for the purpose of arresting its
progress, and it commanded that the cube
should be doubled . This was understood by
the priests to refer to the altar, which was of
a cubical form . They obeyed the injunction,

220 	DOUBLE-HEADED
increasing the altitude of the altar to its pre-
scribed dimensions like the pedestal in a
Masons' Lodge, and the pestilence ceased ."
Double - Headed 	Eagle . 	See 	Eagle,
Double-Headed .
Dove . In ancient symbolism, the dove
represented purity and innocence ; in eccle-
siology, it is a symbol of the Holy Spirit . In
Masonry, the dove is only viewed in reference
to its use by Noah as a messenger . Hence,
in the Grand Lodge of England, doves are
the jewels of the Deacons, because these
officers are the messengers of the Masters and
Wardens . They are not so used in America .
In an honorary or side degree formerly con-
ferred in America, and called the "Ark and
Dove," that bird is a prominent symbol .
Dove, Knights and Ladies of the . An
extinct secret society, of a Masonic model, but
androgynous, instituted at Vers ail les, in 1784 .
Dowland Manuscript . 	First published
by James Dowland, in the Gentleman's Maga-
zine, May, 1815,Vol . LXXXV ., p . 489 . "Writ-
ten on a long roll of parchment, in a very clear
hand, apparently early in the seventeenth
century, and very probably is copied from a
manuscript of earlier date ." Bro . William
J . Hughan says : "Brother Woodford, Mr .
Sims, and other eminent authorities, consider
the original of the copy, from which the manu-
script for the Gentleman's Magazine was
written, to be a scroll of at least a century
earlier than the date ascribed to Mr . Dow-
land's MS ., that is t about 1550 ." The
original MS . from which Dowland made his
copy has not yet been traced . Hughan's
Old Charges (ed . 1872) contains a reprint
of the Dowland MS .
Draeseke, Johan Heinrich Dernhardt .
A celebrated pulpit orator of great eloquence,
who presided over the Lodge "Oelzweig," in
Bremen, for three years, and whose contri-
butions to Masonic literature were collected
and published in 1865, by A . W . Muller,
under the title of Bishop Drdseke as a Mason .
Of this work Findel says that it "contains a
string of costly pearls full of Masonic elo-
quence ."
Drake, Francis, M .D . 	Francis Drake
M .D ., F .R .S ., a celebrated antiquary and
historian, was initiated in the city of York in
1725, and, as Hughan says, "soon made his
name felt in Masonry ." His promotion was
rapid ; for in the same year he was chosen
Junior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of
York, and in 1726 delivered an address, which
was published with the following title : A
Speech delivered to the Worshipful and Ancient
Society of Free and Accepted Masons, at a Grand
Lodge held at Merchants' Hall, in the city of
York, on St . John's Day, December the 27th,
1726 . 	The Right Worshipful Charles Bathurst,
Esq ., Grand Master . By the Junior Grand
Warden . Olim 	meminisse 	Juvabit . 	York .
The address was published in York without
any date, but probably in 1727, and reprinted
in London in 1729 and 1734 . It has often
been reproduced since and can be found in
Hughan's Masonic Sketches and Reprints . In
DROPS
this work Drake makes the important state-
ment that the first Grand Loqgee in England
was held at York ; and that while it recognizes
the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge in
London as Grand Master of England, it claims
that its own Grand Master is Grand Master
of all England . The speech is also impor-
tant for containing a very early reference to
the three degrees of Entered Apprentice,
Fellow-Craft and Master Mason .
Dramatic 	Literature 	of 	Masonry .
Freemasonry has frequently supplied play-
writers with a topic for the exercise of their
genius . 	Kloss (Bibliog ., p . 300) gives the
titles of no less than forty-one plays of which
Freemasonry has been the subject . The
earliest Masonic play is noticed by Thory
(Fond . G. 0 ., p .360), as having been performed
at Paris, in 1739, under the title of Les Fri-
magons . 	Editions of it were subsequently
published at London, Brunswick, and Stras-
burg . In 1741 we have Des Geheimniss der
Freimaurer at )Frankfort and Leipsic . France
and Germany made many other contributions
to the Masonic drama . Even Denmark sup-
plied one in 1745, and Italy in 1785 . The
English dramatists give us only a pantomime,
Harlequin Freemason, which was brought out
at Covent Garden in 1781, and 	on's
Temple, an oratorio . Templarism has not
been neglected by the dramatists . Kalch-
berg, in 1788, wrote Die Tempelherren, a dra-
matic poem in five acts . Odon do Saint-
Amand, Grand Maitre des Templiers, a melo-
drama in three acts, was performed at Paris
in 1806 . Jacques Molai, a melodrama, was
published at Paris in 1807, and La Mort de
Jacques Molai a tragedy, in 1812 . Some of
the plays on Freemasonry were intended to
do honor to the Order, and many to throw
ridicule upon it .
Dresden, Congress of. A General Con-
gress of the Lodges of Saxony was held in
Dresden, where the representatives of twelve
Lodges were present . In this Congress it was
determined to recognize only the Masonry of
St . John, and to construct a National Grand
Lodge . Accordingly, on September 28, 1811,
the National Grand Lodge of Saxony was
established in the city of Dresden, which was
soon joined by all the Saxon Lodges, with
the exception of one in Leipsic . Although it
recognizes only the Symbolic degrees, it per-
mits great freedom in the selection of a ritual ;
and, accordingly, some of its Lodges work in
the Rite of Fessler, and others in the Rite of
Berlin .
Dress of a Mason . 	See Clothed .
Drop Cloth . 	A part of the furniture used
in America in the ceremony of initiation into
the Third Degree . It should be made of very
strong material, with a looped rope at each
corner and one in the middle of each side,
by which it may be securely held .
Drops, Three . 	The mystic number of
drops of blood from the White Giant, that in
the Persian mysteries restored sight to the
captives in the cell of horrors when applied
by the conqueror Rustam . In India, a girdle

DRUIDICAL
of three triple threads was deemed holy ; so
were three drops of water in Brittany, and the
same number of drops of blood in Mexico .
Druidieal Mysteries . 	The Druids were
a sacred order of priests who existed in Britain
and Gaul, but whose mystical rites were
practised in most perfection in the former
country, where the isle of Anglesea was con-
sidered as their principal seat . Higgins
thinks that they were also found in Germany,
but against this opinion we have the positive
statement of Ciesar .
The meanings given to the word have been
very numerous and most of them wholly un-
tenable . The komans, seeing that they wor-
shiped in groves of oak, because that tree was
peculiarly sacred among them, derived their
name from the Greek word, opus, drus ; thus
absurdly seeking the etymology of a word of
an older language in one comparatively mod-
em . Their derivation would have been
more reasonable had they known that in
Sanskrit druma is an oak, from dru, wood . It
has also been traced to the Hebrew with equal
incorrectness, for the Druids were not of the
Semitic race. Its derivation is rather to be
sought in the Celtic language . The Gaelic
word Druiah signifies a holy or wise man ; in a
bad sense a magician ; and this we may readily
trace to the Aryan druh, applied to the spirit
of night or darkness, whence we have the
Zend dru, a magician . Druidism was a mys-
tical profession, and in the olden time mystery
and magic were always confounded . Vallencey
(Coll . Reb . Hib ., iii ., 503) says : "Welsh, Drud,
a Druid, i . e . the absolver or remitter of sins ;
so the Irish Drui, a Druid, most certainly is
from the Persic duru, a good and holy man" ;
and Ousely (Coll . Orient ., iv ., 302) adds to this
the Arabic dart, which means a wise man .
Bosworth (A . S . Dict .) gives dry, pronounced
dru, as the Anglo-Saxon for "a magician, sor-
cerer druid ." Probably with the old Celts
the Druids occupied the same place as the
Magi did with the old Persians .
Druidism was divided into three orders or
degree, which were beginning with the low-
est, the Bards, the Prophets, and the Druids .
Higgins thinks that the prophets were the
lowest order, but he admits that it is not
generally allowed . The constitution of the
Order was in many respects like that of the
Freemasons . In every country there was an
Arch-Druid in whom all authority was placed .
In Britain it is said that there were under him
three arch-flamens or priests, and twenty-
five flamens . There was an annual assembly
for the administration of justice and the
making of laws, and, besides, four quarterly
meetings, which took place on the days when
the sun reached his equinoctial and solstitial
points . The latter two would very nearly
correspond at this time with the festivals of
St . John the Baptist and St . John the Evan-
gelist . It was not lawful to commit their
ceremonies or doctrines to writing, and Cnsar
says (Bell . Gall ., vi ., 14) that they used the
Greek letters, which was, of course, as a cipher ;
but Higgins (p . 90) says that one of the Irish
DRUSES 	221
Ogum alphabets, which Toland calls secret
writing, ` was the on~n al, sacred, and secret
character of the Druids ."
The places of worship, which were also
places of initiation, were of various forms :
circular, because a circle was an emblem of
the universe ; or oval, in allusion to the mun-
dane egg, from which, according to the Egyp-
tians, our first parents issued ; or serpentine,
because a serpent was a symbol of Hu, the
druidical Noah ; or winged, to represent the
motion of the Divine Spirit ; or cruciform,
because a cross was the emblem of regenera-
tion . Their only covering was the clouded
canopy, because they deemed it absurd to
confine the Omnipotent beneath a roof ; and
they were constructed of embankments of
earth, and of unhewn stones, unpolluted with
a metal tool . 	Nor was anyone permitted to
enter their sacred retreats, unless he bore a
chain .
The ceremony of initiation into the Druid-
ical Mysteries required much preliminary
mental preparation and physical purification .
The aspirant was clothed with the three
sacred colors, white, blue, and green ; white
as the symbol of Light, blue of Truth, and
green of Hope . When the rites of initiation
were passed, the tri-colored robe was changed
for one of green- in the Second Degree, the
candidate was clothed in blue ; and having
surmounted all the dangers of the Third, and
arrived at the summit of perfection,he received
the red tiara and flowing mantle of purest
white . The ceremonies were numerous, the
physical proofs painful, and the mental trials
appalling . They commenced in the First
Degree, with placing the as ~~i~rant in the
pastos, bed or coffin, where his symbolical
death was represented, and they terminated
in the Third, by his regeneration or restora-
tion to life from the womb of the giantess
Ceridwin, and the committal of the body of
the newly born to the waves in a small boat,
symbolical of the ark . The result was,
generally, that he succeeded in reaching the
safe landing-place but if his arm was weak,
or his heart failed, death was the almost in-
evitable consequence . If he refused the trial
through timidity, he was contemptuously
rejected, and declared forever ineligible to
participate in the sacred rites . But if he
undertook it and succeeded, he was joyously
invested with all the privileges of Druidism .
The doctrines of the Druids were the same
as those entertained by Pythagoras . They
taught the existence of one Supreme Being ;
a future state of rewards and punishments ;
the immortality of the soul, and a metempsy-
chosis ; and the object of their mystic rites
was to communicate these doctrines in sym-
bolic language an object and a method com-
mon alike to Druidism to the Ancient Mys-
teries and to Modern freemasonry .
Druses . 	A sect of mystic religionists who
inhabit Mounts Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon,
in Syria . They settled there about the tenth
century and are said to be a mixture of Cuth-
ites or Kurds, Mardi Arabs, and possibly of

222 	DUAD
Crusaders ; all of whom were added, by subse-
quent immigrations, to the original stock to
constitute the present or modern race of
Druses . Their religion is a heretical com-
pound of Judaism, Christianity, and Moham-
medism ; the last of which, greatly modified,
predominates in their faith . They have a
regular order of priesthood the office being
filled by persons consecrated' for the purpose,
comprising principally the emirs and sheiks,
who form a secret organization divided into
several degrees, keep the sacred books, and
hold secret religious assemblies . Their sacred
books are written in antiquated Arabic . The
Druses are divided into three classes or degrees,
according to religious distinctions . To enable
one Druse to recognize another, a system of
passwords is adopted, without an interchange
of which no communication is made that may
give an idea of their religious tenets . (Tien's
Druse Religion Unveiled .)
Dr . Clarke tells us in his Travels that "one
class of the Druses are to the rest what the
initiated are to the profane, and are called
Okkals, which means spiritualists ; and they
consider themselves superior to their country-
men . They have various degrees of initiation ."
Colonel Churchill, in his Ten Years' Residence
on Mount Lebanon, tells us that among this
singular people there is an order having many
similar customs to the Freemasons . It re-
quires a twelvemonth's probation previous to
the admission of a member . Both sexes are
admissible . In the second year the novice
assumes the distinguishing mark of the white
turban, and afterward, by degrees, is allowed
to participate in the whole of the mysteries .
Simplicity of attire, self-denial, temperance,
and irreproachable moral conduct are essential
to admission to the order .
All of these facts have led to the theory
that the Druses are an offshoot from the early
Freemasons, and that their connection with
the latter is derived from the Crusaders, who
according to the same theory, are supp osed
to have acquired their Freemasonry during
their residence in Palestine . Some writers go
so far as to say that the degree of Prince of
Lebanon, the Twenty-second in the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite, refers to the
ancestors of these mystical mountaineers in
Syria .
Duad . 	The number two in the Pytha-
gorean system of numbers .
Dualism . 	In the old mythologies, there
was a doctrine which supposed the world to
have been always governed by two antagonis-
tic principles, distinguished as the good and
the evil principle . This doctrine pervaded
all the Oriental religions .
Thus in the system of Zoroaster we have
Ahriman and Ormuzd, and in the Hebrew
cosmogony we find the Creator and the Ser-
pent . There has been a remarkable devel-
opment of this system in the three degrees of
Symbolic Masonry, which everywhere exhibit
in their organization, their symbolism, and
their design, the pervading influences of this
principle of dualism . Thus, in the First De-
DUELING
free, there is Darkness overcome by Light ;
m the Second, Ignorance dispersed by Knowl-
edge, and in the Third, Death conquered by
Eternal Life .
Dub . 	In the ancient ceremonies of chiv-
alry, a knight was made by giving him three
strokes on the neck with the fiat end of the
sword, and he was then said to be "dubbed a
knight ." Dubbing is from the Saxon, dubban,
to strike with a blow . Sir Thomas Smith
(Eng . Commonwealth), who wrote in the six-
teenth century, says : "And when any man is
made a knight, he, kneeling down, is strooken
of the prince, with his sword naked, upon the
back or shoulder, the prince saying= Sus or
sois chevalier au uom de Dieu, and (in times
past) they added St . George, and at his arising
the prince sayeth, Avancey . 	This is the man-
ner of dubbing of knights at this present ; and
that terme dubbing was the old terme in this
point, and not creation."
Due East and West . 	A Lodge is said to
be situated due East and West for reasons
which have varied at different periods in the
ritual and lectures . (See Orientation .)
Due Examination . 	That sort of exami-
nation which is correct and prescribed by law .
It is one of the three modes of proving a
strange brother ; the other two being strict
trial and lawful information . 	(See Vouching)
Due Form . 	When the Grand Lodge is
opened, or any other Masonic ceremony per-
formed, by the Deputy Grand Master in the
absence of the Grand Master, it is said to be
done in due form . 	Subordinate Lodges are
always said to be opened and closed in due
form . 	It is derived from the French word
du, and that from devoir, "to owe,"-that
which is owing or ought to be done . Due
form is the form in which an act ought to be
done to be done rightly . French : En due
forme . 	(See Ample Form .)
Due Guard . A mode of recognition which
derives its name from its object, which is to
duly guard the person using it in reference
to his obligations, and the penalty for their
violation . The Due Guard is an American-
ism, and of comparatively recent origin, being
unknown to the English and continental
systems . In some of the old rituals of the
date of 1757, the expression is used, but only
as referring to what is now called the Sign .
Dueling . 	Dueling has always been con-
sidered a Masonic crime, and most of the
Grand Lodges have enacted statutes by which
Masons who engage in duels with each other
are subject to expulsion . The Monde Macon-
nique (May, 1858) gives the following correct
view on this subject : "A Freemason who
allows himself to be involved in a duel, and
who possesses not sufficient discretion to be
able to make reparation without cowardice,
and without having recourse to this barbarous
extremity, destroys by that impious act the
contract which binds him to his brethren .
His sword or his pistol, though it may seem to
spare his adversary still commits a murder,
for it destroys his brothers-from that time
fraternity no longer exists for him ."

DUES
Dues . The payment of annual dues by a
member to his Lodge is a comparatively
modem custom, and one that certainly did
not exist before the revival of 1717 . 	As
previous to that period, according to Preston,
Lodges received no warrants, but a sufficient
number of brethren meeting together were
competent to practise the Rites of Masonry,
and as soon as the special business which
called them together had been accomplished,
they separated, there could have been no
permanent organization of Speculative Ma-
sons, and no necessity for contributions to
constitute a Lodge fund . Dues must there-
fore have been unknown except in the Lodges
of Operative Masons, which, as we find,
especially in Scotland, had a permanent exist-
ence . 	There is, accordingly, no regulation
in any of the old Constitutions for the pay-
ment of dues . 	It is not a general Masonic
duty, in which the Mason is affected to the
whole of the Craft, but an arrangement
between himself and his Lodge, with which
the Grand Lodge ought not to interfere . 	As
the payment of dues is not a duty owing
to the Craft in general, so the non-payment
of them is not an offense against the Craft,
but simply against his Lodge, the only pun-
ishment for which should be striking from
the roll or discharge from membership . 	It
is now the almost universal opinion of Ma-
sonic jurists that suspension or expulsion from
the Order is a punishment that should never
be inflicted for non-payment of dues .
Dumbness . 	Although 	the 	faculty of
speech is not one of the five human senses,
it is important as the medium of communi-
cating instruction, admonition, or reproof,
and the person who does not possess it is
unfitted to perform the most important duties
of life . 	Hence dumbness disqualifies a candi-
date for Masonic initiation .
Dummy . 	A word used in the Grand
Chapter of Minnesota to signify what is more
usually called a substitute in the Royal Arch
Degree .
Dunckerley, Thomas . 	No one, among
the Masons of England, occupied a more dis-
tinguished position or played a more impor-
tant part in the labors of the Craft during the
latter part of the eighteenth century than
Thomas Dunckerley, whose private life was
as romantic as his Masonic was honorable .
Thomas Dunckerley was born in the city
of London on the 23d of October, 1724 . 	He
was the reputed son of Mr . - and Mrs .
Mary Dunckerley, but really owed his birth
to a personage of a much higher rank in life,
being the natural son of the Prince of Wales,
afterward George II ., to whom he bore, as his
portrait shows, a striking resemblance . 	It
was not until after his mother's death that he
became acquainted with the true history of
his birth ; so that for more than half of his life
this son of a king occupied a very humble
position on the stage of the world, and was
sometimes even embarrassed with the pressure
of poverty and distress .
At the age of ten he entered the navy, and
DUNCKE RLEY 	223
continued in the service for twenty-six years,
acquiring, by his intelligence and uniformly
good conduct, the esteem and commendation
of all his commanders . 	But having no per-
sonal or family interest, he never attained to
any higher rank than that of a gunner . 	Dur-
ing all this time, except at brief intervals, he
was absent from England on foreign service .
He returned to his native country in Janu-
ary, 1760, to find that his mother had died a
few days before, and that on her death-bed
she had made a solemn declaration, accom-
panied by such details as left no possible doubt
of its truth, that Thomas was the illegitimate
son of King George II ., born while he was
Prince of Wales . 	The fact of the birth had,
however, never been communicated by the
mother to the prince, and George II . died
without knowing that he had such a son
living .
Dunckerley, in the account of the affair
which he left among his posthumous papers,
says : "This information gave me great sur-
prise and much uneasiness ; and as I was
obliged to return immediately to my duty on
board the Vanguard, I made it known to no
person at that time but Captain Swanton .
He said that those who did not know me would
look on it to be nothing more than a gossip's
story . We were then bound a second time to
Quebec, and Captain Swanton did promise me
that on our return to England he would en-
deavour to get me introduced to the king, and
that he would give me a character ; but when
we came back to England the king was dead ."
Dunckerley had hoped that his case would
have been laid before his royal father, and that
the result would have been an appointment
equal to his birth . 	But the frustration of
these hopes by the death of the king seems to
have discouraged him, and no efforts appear
for some time to have been made by him or
his friends to communicate the facts to George
III ., who had succeeded to the throne .
In 1761 he again left England as a gunner
in Lord Anson's fleet, and did not return until
1764, at which time, finding himself embar-
rassed with a heavy debt, incurred in the ex-
penses of his family (for he had married in
early life in the year 1744), knowing no person
who could authenticate the story of his birth,
and seeing no probability of gaining access to
the ear of the king, he sailed in a merchant
vessel for the Mediterranean . 	He had previ-
ously been granted superannuation in the navy
in consequence of his long services, and re-
ceived a small pension, the principal part of
which he left for the support of his family
during his absence .
But the romantic story of his birth began
to be publicly known and talked about and
in 1766 attracted the attention of several per-
sons of distinction, who endeavored, but with-
out success, to excite the interest of the
Princess Dowager of Wales in his behalf .
In 1767, however, the declaration of his
mother was laid before the king, who was
George III ., the grandson of his father . 	It
made an impression on him, and inquiry into

224 	DUNC KF RLEY
his previous character and conduct having
proved satisfactory, on May 7, 1767, the king
ordered Dunckerley to receive a pension of
£100, which was subsequently increased to
£800, together with a suite of apartments in
Hampton Court Palace . He also assumed,
and was permitted to bear, the royal arms
with the distinguishing badge of the bend
sinister, and adopted as his motto the appro-
priate words "Fato non merito ." 	In his fa-
miliar correspondence, and in his book-plates,
he used the name of " Fitz-George ."
In 1770 he became a student of law, and in
1774 was called to the bar ; but his fondness
for an active life prevented him from ever
making much progress in the legal profession .
Dunckerley died at Portsmouth in the year
1795, at the ripe age of seventy-one ; but his
last years were embittered by the misconduct
of his son, whose extravagance and dissolute
conduct necessarily afflicted the mind while it
straitened the means of the unhappy parent .
Every effort to reclaim him proved utterly
ineffectual ; and on the death of his father, no
provision being left for his support, he became
a vagrant, living for the most part on Masonic
charity . At last he became a bricklayer's
laborer and was often seen ascending a ladder
with a hod on his shoulders . His misfortunes
and his misconduct at length found an end,
and the grandson of a king of England died a
pauper in a cellar at St . Giles .
Dunckerley was initiated into Masonry on
January 10, 1754, in a Lodge, No . 31, which
then met at the Three Tuns, Portsmouth ; in
1760 he obtained a warrant for a Lodge to be
held on board the Vanguard, in which ship he
was then serving ; in the following year the
Vanguard sailed for the West Indies, and
Dunckerley was appointed to the Prince, for
which ship a Lodge was warranted in 1762 ;
this warrant Dunckerley appears to have re-
tained when he left the service, and in 1766
the Lodge was meeting at Somerset House,
where Dunckerley was then living . 	In 1768
the Vanguard Lodge was revived in London,
with Dunckerley as its first Master, and it
exists to the present day under the name of
the "London Lodge," No . 108 .
In 1767 he joined the present "Lodge of
Friendship" ; in 1785 he established a Lodge
at Hampton Court, now No . 255 . In 1767
he was appointed Provincial Grand Master of
Hampshire, and in 1776 Provincial Grand
Master for Essex, and at various dates he was
placed in charge of the provinces of Bristol,
Dorsetchire, Gloucestershire, Somersetshire,
DYE
and Herefordshire . In Royal Arch Masonry
Dunckerley displayed equal activity as in
Craft Masonry ; he was exalted at Portsmouth
in 1754 and in 1766 joined the London Chap-
ter, which in the following year became a
Grand Chapter .
He was especially active in promoting Arch
Masonry all over the country and was in
charge .of Essex, Hants, Wilts, Dorset, Devon,
Somersetshire, Gloucestershire, Kent, Suffolk,
Sussex and Durham .
He was also a most zealous Knight Templar,
being in 1791 the first Grand Master of the
Order when the Grand Conclave was formed
in London .
He was also a Mark Mason . A Charge, or
Oration, is still extant, which was delivered
by him at Plymouth in April, 1757, entitled
"The Light and Truth of Masonry Explained ."
He was also the author of "A Song for the
Knights Templars," and of an "Ode for an
Exaltation of Royal Arch Masons ." These
will be found in Thomas Dunckerley-his
Life, Labours and Letters, b y H . Sadler (1891) .
It is often asserted that Dunckerley revised
the Craft Lectures and reconstructed the
Royal Arch Degree, but there is no proof
forthcoming of these statements . [E . L . H .]
Dupaty, Louis Emanuel Charles Mer-
rier . The author of many Masonic songs
and other fugitive pieces inserted in the An-
nales Magonniques . , He wrote in 1810, with
Rev roui de Saint-Cyr, a comic opera entitled
"Cagliostro ou les Illumines ." 	In 1818, he
published a Masonic tale entitled "l'Har-
monie ." He was a poet and dramatic writer
of some reputation . He was born in the
Gironde in 1775, elected to the French Acad-
emy in 1835, and died in 1851 .
Duty . 	The duty of a Mason as an honest
man is plain and easy . It requires of him
honesty in contracts, sincerity in affirming,
simplicity in bargaining and faithfulness in
performing . To sleep little, and to stud
much ; to say little, and to hear and think
much ; to learn, that he may be able to do ; and
then to do earnestly and vigorously whatever
the good of his fellows his country, and man-
kind requires, are the duties of every Mason .
Dyaus . Sanskrit for sky ; bright, exalted .
The Deity, the sun, the celestial canopy, the
firmament .
"Dye na Sore," or "Die Wanderer aus
dem Sanskrit Ubersetzt ." A Masonic romance,
by Von Meyern, which appeared at Vienna
in 1789, and contains a complete account of
Masonic festivities .

E
E . 	(Heb ., "I .) 	The fifth letter in the
English and in the Graeco-Roman alphabets .
In form the Hebrew M is quite similar to Cheth,
r , which has a numerical value of eight, while
that of He is five . The signification is win-
dow, and in the Egyptian hieroglyphs- is rep-
resented by a hand extending the thumb and
two fingers . It also represents the fifth name
of God, 1111 (Hadur), Formosus, Majestuosus .
Eagle . The eagle, as a symbol, is of great
antiquity . In Egypt, Greece, and Persia,
this bird was sacred to the sun . Among the
Pagans it was an emblem of Jupiter, and with
the Druids it was a symbol of their supreme
god . 	In the Scriptures, a distinguished refer-
ence is in many instances made to the eagle ;
especially do we find Moses (Exod . xix . 4)
representing Jehovah as saying, in allusion to
the belief that this bird assists its feeble young
in their flight by bearing them upon its own
pinions, "Ye have seen what I did unto the
EFyptians and how I bare you on a les'
wings and brought you unto myself ." Not
less elevated was the symbolism of the eagle
among the Pagans . Thus, Cicero, speaking
of the myth of Ganymede carried up to Jove
on an eagle's back, says that it teaches us that
the truly wise, irradiated by the shining
light of virtue, become more and more like
God, until by wisdom they are borne aloft and
soar to Him . The heralds explain the eagle as
signifying the same thing among birds as the
lion does among quadrupeds . It is, they say
the most swift, strong, laborious, generous, and
bold of all birds, and for this reason it has
been made, both by ancients and moderns,
the 	bol of majesty . In the jewel of the	R0, :Toix Degree is found an eagle displayed
at the foot of the cross ; and it is there very
appropriately selected as a symbol of Christ,
in His Divine character, bearing the children
of His adoption on his wings, teaching them
with unequaled love and tenderness to poise
their unfledged wings and soar from the dull
corruptions of earth to a higher and holier
sphere . And for this reason the eagle in the
jewel of that degree is very significantly repre-
sented as having the wings displayed as if
in the very act of flight .
Eagle and Pelican, Knight of the . See
Knight of the Eagle and Pelican .
Eagle, Double-Headed . 	The eagle dis-
played, that is, with extended wings, as if in
the act of flying, has always, from the ma-
jestic character of the bird, been deemed an
emblem of imperial power . Marius, the con-
sul, first consecrated the eagle, about eight
years n .c ., to be the sole Roman standard at
the head of every legion, and hence it became
the standard of the Roman Empire ever after-
ward . As the single-headed eagle was thus
adopted as the symbol of imperial power, the
double-headed eagle naturally became the rep-
resentative of a double empire ; and on the
division of the Roman dominions into the
eastern and western empire, which were after-
E
EAGLE 	225
ward consolidated by the Carlovingian race
into what was ever after called the Holy
Roman Empire, the double-headed eagle was
assumed as the emblem of this double empire ;
one head looking, as it were, to the West, or
Rome, and the other to the East, or Byzan-
tium . Hence the escutcheons of many per-
sons now living, the descendants of the princes
and counts of the Holy Roman Empire, are
placed upon the breast of a double-headed
eagle . Upon the dissolution of that empire,
the emperors of Germany, who claimed their
empire to be the representative of ancient
Rome, assumed the double-headed eagle as
their symbol, and placed it in their arms,
which were blazoned thus : Or, an eagle dis-
played sable, having two heads, each enclosed
within an amulet, or beaked and armed gales,
holding in his right claw a sword and scepter
or, and in his left the imperial mound . Russia
also bears the double-headed eagle, having
added, says Brewer, that of Poland to her
own, and thus denoting a double empire . It
is, however, probable that the double-headed
eagle of Russia is to be traced to some assumed
representation of the Holy Roman Empire
based upon the claim of Russia to Byzantium ;
for Constantine, the Byzantine emperor, is
said to have been the first who assumed this
device to intimate the division of the empire
into East and West .
The statement of Millington (Heraldry in
History, Poetry, and Romance, p . 290) is
doubtful that "the double-headed eagle of
the Austrian and Russian empires was first
assumed during the Second Crusade and typi-
fied the great alliance formed by the Christian
sovereigns of Greece and Germany against the
enemy of their common faith, and it is retained
by Russia and Austria as representations of
those empires ." The theory is more probable
as well as more generally accepted which con-
nects the symbol with the eastern and western
empires of Rome . It is, however, agreed by
all that while the single-headed eagle denotes
imperial dignity, the extension and multiplica-
tion of that dignity is symbolized by the two
heads .
The double-headed eagle was probably first
introduced as a symbol into Masonry in the

226 	EAGLE
year 1758 . 	In that year the body calling it-
self the Council of Emperors of the East and
West was established in Paris . The double-
headed eagle was likely to have been assumed
by i .his Council iii reference to the double
jurisdiction whic'r it claimed, and which is
represented so distinctly in its title . Its
ritual, which consisted of twenty-five de-
grees, all of which are now contained in the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, was sub-
sequently established in the city of Berlin,
and adopted by the Grand Lodge of the Three
Globes .
The jewel of the Thirty-third Degree, or
Sovereign Grand Inspector-General of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, is a
double-headed eagle (which was originally
black, but is now generally of silver) a golden
crown resting on both heads, wings displayed,
beak and claws of gold, his talons grasping a
wavy sword, the emblem of cherubic fire, the
hilt held by one talon, the blade by the other .
The banner of the Order is also a double-
headed eagle crowned .
Eagle, Knight of the . 	See Knight of
the Eagle .
Eagle, Knight of the American . See
Knight of the American Eagle .
Eagle, Knight 	of 	the Black . 	See
Knight of the Black Eagle .
Eagle, Knight of 	the Golden . 	See
Knight of the Golden Eagle .
Eagle, Knight of the Prussian . 	See
Knight of the Prussian Eagle .
Eagle, Knight of the Red . 	See Knight
of the Red Eagle .
Eagle, Knight of the White and Black .
See Knight of the White and Black Eagle .
Eagles, Knight of the Two Crowned .
See Knight of the Two Crowned Eagles .
Ear of Corn . 	This was, among all the
ancients, an emblem of plenty . Ceres, who
was universally worshiped as the goddess of
abundance, and even called by the Greeks
Demeter, a manifest corruption of Gemeter, or
mother earth, was symbolically represented
with a garland on her head composed of ears
of corn, a lighted torch in one hand, and a
cluster of poppies and ears of corn in the other .
And in the Hebrew, the most significant of all
languages, the two words, which signify an ear
of corn, are both derived from roots which
give the idea of abundance . For shibboleth
which is applicable both to an ear of corn and
a flood of water, has its root in shabal, to in-
crease or to flow abundantly ; and the other
name of corn, dagan, is derived from the verb
dagah, signifying to multiply, or to be in-
creased .
Ear of corn, which is a technical expression
in the Second Degree, has been sometimes
ignorantly displaced by a sheaf of wheat . 	This
is done in America, under the mistaken sup-
position that corn refers only to Indian maize,
which was unknown to the ancients . But
corn is a generic word, and includes wheat and
every other kind of grain . This is its legiti-
mate English meaning, and hence an ear of
corn, which is an old expression, and the right
EAST
one, would denote a stalk, but not a sheaf of
wheat . 	(See Shibboleth .)
Ear, The Listening . 	The listening ear is
one of the three precious jewels of a Fellow-
Craft Mason . In the Hebrew language, the
verb YnT, shemong, signifies not only to hear,
but also to understand and to obey . Hence,
when Jesus said, after a parable, "he that
hath ears to hear, let him hear," he meant to
denote that he who hears the recital of alle-
gories should endeavor to discover their hidden
meaning and be obedient to their teaching .
This is the true meaning of the symbol of the
listening ear, which admonishes the Fellow
Craft not only that he should receive lessons
of instruction from his teacher, but that he
should treasure them in his breast, so as to
ponder over their meaning and carry out their
design .
Earthen Pan . 	In the lectures of the early
part of the eighteenth century used as a sym-
bol of zeal, together with chalk and charcoal,
which represented freedom and fervency . In
the modern lectures clay has been substituted
for it . 	Pan once signified hard earth, a mean-
ing which is now obsolete, though from it we
derive the name of a cooking utensil .
East . 	The East has always been con-
sidered peculiarly sacred . This was, without
exception, the case in all the Ancient Mys-
teries . In the Egyptian rites, especially, and
those of Adonis, which were among the earli-
est, and from which the others derived their
existence, the sun was the object of adoration,
and his revolutions through the various sea-
sons were fictitiously represented . The spot,
therefore, where this luminary made his ap-
pearance at the commencement of day, and
where his worshipers were wont anxiously to
look for the first darting of his prolific rays,
was esteemed as the figurative birthplace of
their god, and honored with an appropriate
degree of reverence . And even among those
nations where sun-worship gave place to more
enlightened doctrines, the respect for the place
of sun-rising continued to exist . The camp
of Judah was placed by Moses in the East as a
mark of distinction ; the tabernacle in the
wilderness was placed due East and West ;
and the practise was continued in the erection
of Christian churches . Hence, too, the primi-
tive Christians always turned toward the
East in their Public prayers, which custom St .
Augustine (Serm . Dom . in Monte, c . 5), ac-
counts for "because the East is the most hon-
orable part of the world, being the region of
light whence the glorious sun arises ." And
hence all Masonic Lodges, like their great pro-
totype the Temple of Jerusalem, are built, or
supposed to be built, due East and West ; and
as the North is esteemed a place of darkness,
the East, on the contrary, is considered a
place of light .
In the primitive Christian church, according
to St . Ambrose, in the ceremonies accompany-
ing the baptism of a catechumen, "he turned
towards the West, the image of darkness, to
abjure the world, and towards the East, the
emblem of light, to denote his alliance with

EAST
Jesus Christ ." And so, too, in the oldest lec-
tures of the last century, the Mason is said to
travel from the West to the East, that is, from
darkness to light . In the Prestonian system,
the question is asked, "What induces you to
leave the West to travel to the East?" And
the answer is : "In search of a Master, and
from him to gain instruction ." The same
idea, if not precisely the same language, is pre-
served in the modern and existing rituals .
The East, being the place where the Master
sits, is considered the most honorable part of
the Lodge, and is distinguished from the rest
of the room by a dais, or raised platform,
which is occupied only by those who have
passed the Chair .
Bazot (Manuel, p . 154) says : "The venera-
tion which Masons have for the East, confirms
the theory that it is from the East that the
Masonic cult proceeded, and that this bears a
relation to the primitive religion whose first
degeneration was sun-worship ."
East and West, Knight of the . See
Knight of the East and West .
East, Grand . 	The place where a Grand
Lodge holds its communications and whence
are issued its edicts, is often called its Grand
East . Thus, the Grand East of Boston
would, according to this usage, be placed
at the head of documents emanating from
the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts . Grand
Orient has sometimes been used instead of
Grand East, but improperly . Orient might
be admissible as signifying East, but Grand
Orient having been adopted as the name of
certain Grand Bodies, such as the Grand
Orient of France, which is tantamount to the
Grand Lodge of France, the use of the term
might lead to confusion . Thus, the Orient
of Paris is the seat of the Grand Orient of
France . The expression Grand East, how-
ever, is almost exclusively confined to America,
and even there is not in universal use .
East Indies . 	See India .
East, Knight of the . 	See Knight of the
East .
Easter . Easter Sunday, being the day
celebrated by the Christian church in com-
memoration of the resurrection of the Lord
Jesus, is appropriately kept as a feast-day by
Rose Croix Masons .
Easter Monday . On this day, in every
third year, Councils of Kadosh in the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite hold their elec-
tions .
Eastern Star, Order of the . An Ameri-
can Adoptive Rite, called the "Order of the
Eastern Star," invented by Bro . Robert
Morris, and somewhat popular in America .
It consists of five degrees, viz ., 1, Jephtha's
Daughter, or the Daughter's Degree ; 2,
Ruth, or the Widow's Degree ; 3, Esther, or the
Wife's Degree ; 4, Martha, or the Sister's
Degree ; 5, Elects, or the Benevolent . It is
entirely different from European or French
Adoptive Masonry . Recently, this Order
has undergone a thorough organization, and
been extended into other countries, especially
into South America and Great Britain .
EBONY 	227
East Port . An error of ignorance in the
Lansdowne Manuscript, where the expres-
sion "the city of East Port" occurs as a cor-
ruption of "the cities of the East ."
Eavesdropper . 	A listener . The punish-
ment which was directed in the old lectures,
at the revival of Masonry in 1717, to be in-
flicted on a detected cowan was : "To be
placed under the eaves of the house in rainy
weather, till the water runs in at his shoulders
and out at his heels ." The French inflict a
similar punishment . "On le met sous une
gouttiere, une pompe, ou une fontaine,
jusqu'h ce qu'il~~soit mouill6 depuis la tete
jusqu aux pieds . 	Hence a listener is called
an eavesdropper . The word is not, as has
by some been supposed, a peculiar Masonic
term, but is common to the language . Skin-
ner gives it in his Etymologicon, and calls it
"vox sane elegantissima" ; and Blackstone
(Comm .,iv .,13) thus defines it : "Eavesdroppers,
or such as listen under walls, or windows, or
the eaves of a house, to hearken after dis-
course, and thereupon to frame slanderous
and mischievous tales, are a common nuisance
and presentable at the court leet ; or are in-
dictable at the sessions, and punishable by fine
and finding sureties for their good behavior ."
Ebal . According to Mackenzie 	(Royal
Masonic Cyclopadia s .v .) the following was
introduced into the lectures of Masonry in
the last century : "Moses commanded Israel
that as soon as they had passed the Jordan,
they should go to Shechem, and divide into
two bodies, each composed of six tribes : one
placed on, that is, adjacent to, Mount Ebal ;
the other on, or adjacent to, Mount Gerizim .
The six tribes on or at Gerizim were to pro-
nounce blessings on those who should faith-
fully observe the law ; and the six on Mount
Ebal were to pronounce curses against those
who should violate it . This Joshua executed .
(Deut . xxvii ; Joshua viii . 30-35 .) 	Moses en-
joined them to erect an altar of unhewn stones
on Mount Ebal, and to plaster them over,
that the law might be written on the altar .
Shechem is the modern Nablous ."
Eben Bohan . 	The stone which Bohan set
up as a witness-stone, and which afterward
served as a boundary-mark on the frontier
between Judah and Benjamin. (Joshua xv .6 ;
xviii . 17 .)
Eben-Ezer . 	(Heb ., 	stone of
help .) A stone set up by Samuel between
Mizpeh and Shen in testimony of the Divine
assistance obtained against the Philistines .
(1 Sam . vii . 12 .)
Eblis . 	The Arabian name of the prince of
the apostate angels, exiled to the infernal
regions for refusing to worship Adam at the
command of the Supreme, Ebhs claiming that
he had been formed of ethereal fire, while
Adam was created from clay . The Moham-
medans assert that at the birth of their
prophet the throne of Eblis was precipitated
to the bottom of hell . The Azazel of the
Hebrews .
Ebony Box . 	A symbol in the high degrees
of the human heart, which is intended to

228 	ECBATANA
teach reserve and taciturnity, which should
be inviolably maintained in regard to the in-
communicable secrets of the Order . When it
is said that the ebony box contained the plans
of the Temple of Solomon, the symbolic teach-
ing is, that in the human heart are deposited
the secret designs and motives of our conduct
by which we propose to erect the spiritual
temple of our lives .
Eebatana . 	An ancient city of great
interest to those who study the history of the
rebuilding of the Temple . Its several names
were Agbatana, Hagmatana, and Achmeta .
Tradition attributes the founding of the city
to Solomon, Herodotus to Deioces 728 B .C .,
the Book of Judith to Arphaxad . ft was the
ancient capital of Media . Vast quantities of
rubbish now indicate where the palace and
citadel stood . The Temple of the Sun
crowned a conical hill enclosed by seven con-
centric walls . According to Celsus, there was
thus exhibited a scale composed of seven steps
or stages, with an eighth at the upper ex-
tremity . The first stage was composed of
lead, and indicated Saturn ; the second of tin
denoted Venus ; the third, of copper, denoted
Jupiter ; the fourth, of iron, denoted Mars ; the
fifth, of divers metals, denoted Mercury ;
the sixth, of silver, denoted the Moon ; the
seventh, of gold, denoted the Sun ; then the
highest, Heaven. As they rose in gradation
toward the pinnacle, all the gorgeous battle-
ments represented at once-in Sabean fashion
-the seven planetary spheres . The principal
buildings were the Citadel, a stronghold of
enormous dimensions, where also the archives
were kept, in which Darius found the edict of
Cyrus the Great concerning the rebuilding of
the Holy Temple in Jerusalem .
Eclectic Masonry . 	From the Greek,
J,cXewnubs, eklektikos, which means selecting .
Those philosophers who, in ancient times,
selected from the various systems of philoso-
phy such doctrines as appeared most conform-
able to truth were called "eclectic philoso-
phers ." So the confederation of Masons in
Germany which consisted of Lodges that
selected the degrees which they thought most
comformable to ancient Freemasonry, was
called the eclectic union, and the Masonry
which it adopted received the name of Eclectic
Masonry . 	(See Eclectic Union .)
Eclectic Rite . The Rite practised by the
Eclectic Union, which see .
Eclectic Union . The fundamental idea
of a union of the German Lodges for the pur-
pose of purifying the Masonic system of the
corruptions which had been introduced by
the numerous degrees founded on alchemy,
theosophy, and other occult sciences which at
that time flooded the continent of Europe,
originated, in 1779, with the Baron Von Dit-
furth, who had been a prominent member of
the Rite of Strict Observance ; although Len-
ning attributes the earlier thought of a circu-
lar letter to Von Knigge . But the first practi-
cal step toward this purification was taken in
1783 by the Provincial Grand Lodges of
Frankfort-on-the-Main and of Wetzlar . These
ECOSSAIS
two bodies addressed an encyclical letter to
the Lodges of Germany in which they invited
them to enter into an alliance for the purpose
of "re-establishing the Royal Art of Freema-
sonry ." The principal points on which this
union or alliance was to be founded were, 1 .
That the three symbolic degrees only were to
be acknowledged by the united Lodges . 2 .
That each Lodge was permitted to practise
for itself such high degrees as it might select
for itself but that the recognition of these was
not to he made compulsory on the other
Lodges . 3 . That all the united Lodges were
to be equal, none being dependent on any
other . These propositions were accepted by
several Lodges, and thence resulted the Eklec-
tischer Bund, or Eclectic Union of Germany .
at the head of which is the "Mother Grand
Lodge of the Eclectic Union" at Frankfort-
on-the-Main which has 21 Lodges and 3,166
brethren under its jurisdiction . The system
of Masonry practised by this union is called
the Eclectic system, and the Rite recognized
by it is the Eclectic Rite, which consists of
only the three degrees of pprentice, Fellow-
Craft, and Master Mason .
Eeossais . This is a French word, which
is most generally to be translated as Scottish
Master . 	There are numerous degrees under
the same or a similar name ; all of them, how-
ever, concurring in one particular, namely,
that of detailing the method adopted for the
preservation of the true Word . The Ameri-
can Mason will understand the character of
the system of Ecossaism, as it may be called,
when he is told that the Select Master of
his own Rite is really an Ecossais Degree .
It is found, too, in many other Rites . Thus,
in the French Rite it is the Fifth Degree .
In the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite,
the Thirteenth Degree or Knights of the
Ninth Arch is properly an Ecossais Degree .
The Ancient York Rite is without an Ecos-
sais Degree, but its principles are set forth
in the instructions of the Royal Arch .
Some idea of the extent to which these de-
grees have been multiplied may be formed
from the fact that Oliver has a list of eighty
of them ; Ragon enumerates eighty-three ; and
the Baron Tschoudy, rejecting, twenty-seven
which he does not consider legitimate, retains
a far greater number to whose purity he does
not object .
In the Ecossais system there is a legend,
a part of which has been adopted in all the
Ecossais degrees, and which has in fact been
incorporated into the mythical history of
Masonry . It is to the effect that the builder
of the Temple engraved the word upon a tri-
angle of pure metal, and, fearing that it might
be lost, he always bore it about his person
suspended from his neck, with the a aved
side next to his breast . In a time 	great
peril to himself, he cast it into an old dry well,
which was in the southeast comer of the
Temple, where it was afterward found by
three Masters . They were passing near the
well at the hour of meridian, and were at-
tracted by its brilliant appearance ; whereupon

ECOSSAIS
one of them, descending with the assistance of
his comrades, obtained it, and carried it to
King Solomon . 	But the more modern form
of the legend dispenses with the circumstance
of the dry well and says that the builder
deposited it in tie place which had been pur-
posely prepared for it, and where centuries
afterward it was found . 	And this amended
form of the legend is more in accord with the
recognized symbolism of the loss and the re-
covery of the Word .
Ecossais . 	1 . The Fourth Degree of Ram-
say's Rite, and the original whence all the de-
grees of Ecossaism have sprung . 	2 . The
Fifth Degree of the French Rite . 	3 . The
Ecossais degrees constitute the fourth class
of the Rite of Mizraim-from the Fourteenth
to the Twenty-first Degree . In the subsequent
articles only the principal Ecossais degrees will
be mentioned .
Ecossais Architect, Perfect . 	(Ecossais
Architecte Parfait .) A degree in the collection
of M . Pyron .
Ecossais d'Angers or Ecossais d'Alcid-
ony . 	Two degrees mentioned in a work
entitled Philosophical Considerations on Free-
masonry .
English . 	(Ecoss . Anglais .) 	A
degree in the Mother Lodge of the Philosophic
Rite .
Ecossais, 	Faithful . 	(Ecossais 	Fidlle .)
(See Vielle Bru .)
Ecossais, French . 	The Thirty-fifth De-
gree of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Ecossais, Grand . The Fourteenth Degree
of the Scottish Rite is so called in some of the
French rituals .
Ecossals, Grand Architect . (Grand Archi-
tect Ecossais .) 	The Forty-fifth Degree of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Ecossais, Grand Master . 	Formerly the
Sixth Degree of the Capitular system, prac-
tised in Holland .
Ecossais, Knight . 	A synonym of the
Ninth Degree of Illuminism . 	It is more com-
monly called Illuminatus Diri ens .
Ecossais, Master . The Fifth Degree of
the Rite of Zinnendorf . It was also formerly
among the high degrees of the German Chap-
ter and those of the Rite of the Clerks of
Strict Observance . It is said to have been
composed by Baron Hund .
Ecossais Novice . 	A synonym of the
Eighth Degree of Illuminism . 	It is more
commonly called Illuminatus Major .
Ecossals of Clermont . 	The Thirteenth
Degree of the Metropolitan 	Chapter of
France .
Ecossais of England . 	A degree in the
collection of M . Le Rouge .
Ecossais of Franville . 	The Thirty-first
Degree of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France .
Ecossais of Hiram . 	A degree in the
Mother Lodge of the Philosophic Scotch Rite .
Ecossais of Messina . 	A degree in the
nomenclature of M . Fustier .
Ecossais of Montpellier . 	The Thirty-
ECOSSAIS 	229
sixth Degree of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France .
Ecossais of Naples . 	The Forty-second
Degree of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Ecossais of Perfection . The Thirty-ninth
Degree of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Eeossals of Prussia . A degree in the
archives of the Mother Lodge of the Philo-
sophic Scottish Rite .
Ecossais of St . Andrew . A not unusual
form of Ecossaism, and found in several
Rites . 	1 . The Second Degree of the Clerks
of Strict Observance ; 2 . The Twenty-first
Degree of the Rite of Mizraim ; 3 . The
Twenty-ninth Degree of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite is also an Ecossais of St .
Andrew ; 4 . The Sixty-third Degree of the
collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France is an Ecossais of St . Andrew of Scot-
land ; 5 . The Seventy-fifth Degree of the same
collection is called Ecossais of St . Andrew of
the Thistle .
Ecossais of St . George . 	A degree in the
collection of Le Page .
Ecossals of the Forty . 	(Ecossais des
Quarante .) 	The Thirty-fourth Degree of the
collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France .
Ecossais of the Lodge of Prince Edward .
A degree in the collection of Pyron . 	This was
probably a Stuart degree, and referred to
Prince Charles Edward, the young retender .
Ecossais of the Sacred 	ault of James
VI. 1 . The Thirty-third Degree of the col-
lection of the Metropolitan Chapter of France,
said to have been composed by the Baron
Tschoudy . 	2 . The Twentieth Degree of the
Rite of Mizraim . 	3 . In the French rituals,
this name has been given to the Fourteenth
Degree of the Scottish Rite . 	Chemin Du-
pontcs says that the degree was a homage paid
to the kings of Scotland . 	Nothing., however,
of this can be found in its present ritual ; but it
is very probable that the degree, in its first
conception, and in some ritual that no longer
exists, was an offspring of the house of Stuart,
of which James VI . was the first English
king .
Ecossais of the Three J . J . J . 	1 . The
Thirty-second Degree of the collection of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France . 	2 . The
Nineteenth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
The three J . J. J . are the initials of Jourdain,
Jaho, Jachin .
Ecossals of Toulouse . 	A degree in the
archives of the Mother Lodge of the Philo-
sophic Scottish Rite .
Ecossais of the Triple Triangle . 	The
Thirty-seventh Degree of the collection of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Ecossais, Parisian . 	So Thory has it ; but
Ragon, and all the other nomenclators, give it
as cossais Panisait re . 	The Seventeenth De-
gree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Ecossais, Perfect . 	A degree in the ar-
chives of the Mother Lodge of the Philosophic
Scottish Rite .

230 	ECOSSISM
Eeossism . 	A name given by French Ma-
sonic writers to the thirty-three degrees of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite . This
in English, would be equivalent to Scottis!e
Masonry which see .
Ecuador . 	Masonry was introduced into
the Republic of Ecuador, in the year 1857, by
the Grand Orient of Peru, which organized a
Symbolic Lodge and Chapter of the Eighth
Degree in Guayaquil ; but in consequence of
the opposition of the priests, these bodies did
not flourish, and at the end of two years their
members surrendered their -warrants and
ceased to pursue their Masonic labors . But,
since then the Craft has revived and there are
in Ecuador two Lodges under the Grand
Lodge of Peru .
Edda . 	An Icelandic word, literally trans-
lated great-grandmother, as referred to in
Scandinavian poetry . There are in reality
two books of this name which were deemed
inspired by the ancient Germans, Norwegians,
and Swedes, and there grew out so many
myths from these canonical writings, that
great difficulty is now experienced as to what
were apocryphal . The myths springing from
the old German theology are full of beauty ;
they pervade Freemasonry extensively and so
intimately that they are believed by many of
the best students to be the origin of a large
number of its legends and symbols .
The older of the two, called The Edda of
Samund the Learned, was written in a language
existing in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway
as early as the eighth century . Samund
Sigfusson, an Icelandic priest born in 1056,
collected thirty-nine of these poems during the
earlier portion of the twelfth century . The
most remarkable of these poems is the Oracle
of the Prophetess, containing the cosmogony,
under the Scandinavian belief, from the crea-
tion to the destruction of the world . A well-
preserved copy was found in Iceland in 1643 .
The younger Edda is a collection of the
myths of the gods, and of explanations of
meters of Pagan poetry, and is intended for
instruction of young scalds or poets . The
first copy was found complete in 1628 . The
prologue is a curious compendium of Jewish,
Greek 	Christian, Roman, and Icelandic
legend . Its authorship is ascribed to Snorro
Sturleson, born in 1178 ; hence called Edda of
Snorro .
Edict of Cyrus . 	Five hundred and thirty-
six years before the Christian era, Cyrus
issued his edict permitting the Jews to return
from the captivity at Babylon to Jerusalem,
and to rebuild the House of the Lord . At the
same time he restored to them all the sacred
vessels and precious ornaments of the first
Temple, which had been carried away by
Nebuchadnezzar, and which were still in ex-
istence . This is commemorated in the Royal
Arch Degree of the York and American Rites .
It is also referred to in the Fifteenth Degree,
or Knight of the East of the Scottish Rite .
Edicts . The decrees of a Grand Master or
of a Grand Lodge are called Edicts and obedi-
ence to them is obligatory on all the Craft .
EDWARD
Edinburgh . 	The capital of Scotland .
[The Lodge of Edinburgh (Mary's Chapel is
No . 1 on the "Roll of Lodges holding under the
Grand Lodge of Scotland," and is described
therein as instituted "Before 1598 ." Noth-
ing more precise is known as to the date of its
foundation, but it possesses minutes com-
mencing in July, 1599 . It met at one time in
a chapel dedicated to the Virgin Mary, and
from this is derived the second part of its
name . 	Its history has been written by D .
M . Lyon (1873) .-E . L. H .] (See Scotland .)
Edinburgh, Congress of . 	It was con-
voked, in 1736, by William St . Clair of Roslin,
Patron of the Masons of Scotland (whose
mother Lodge was Canongate Kilwinning),
with the view of abdicating his
er Lod ge as
hereditary Grand Patron, with all the privi-
leges granted to the family of St . Clair of
Roslin by the Operative Masons of Scotland
early in the seventeenth century (see St .
Clair Charters), and afterward to organize
Masonry upon a new basis . The members of
thirty-three Lodges uniting for this purpose,
constituted the new Grand Lodge of Scotland,
and elected St . Clair Grand Master on Novem-
ber 30, 1736 . 	(See St . Clair .)
Edinburgh - Kilwinning Manuscript .
One of the "Old Charges," probably written
about 1665 . It is in the custody of the
"Mother Lodge Kilwinnin , No . 0," which
heads the Roll of Scotch Lodges . It has been
reproduced in Hughan's Masonic Sketches
and Reprints, and in D . M . Lyon's History
of the Lodge of Edinburgh . 	[E . L. H .]
Edward the Confessor, King . Said to
have been a patron of Masonry in England
in 1041 .
Edward, Rings . 	The four kings, numeri-
cally known as the First, Second, Third, and
Fourth, appear as favorers, abettors, and
protectors of the Institution of Freemasonry .
Edward, Prince . 	Son of George III ., and
Duke of Kent, was initiated in 1790, at
Geneva, in the Lodge De l' Union des Cnurs ;
was Grand Master of the Ancients, and re-
signed to the Duke of Sussex on the mem-
orable occasion of the Union in England,
1813 .
Edward III . Manuscript . 	A manuscript
quoted by Anderson in his second edition
(p . 71), and also by Preston, as an old record
referr' g to "the glorious reign of King
Edward III ." The whole of the record is not
cited, but the passages that are given are
evidently the same as those contained in what
is now known as the Cooke MS ., the archaic
phraseology having been modernized and in-
terpolations inserted by Anderson, as was,
unfortunately, his habit in dealing with those
old documents . Compare, for instance, the
following passages :
From the Cooke MS . 	"When the master
and the felawes be forwarned ben y come to
such congregations if nede be the Schereffe
of the countre or the mayer of the Cyte or
alderman of the towne in wyche the con-
gregacions is holde schall be felaw and sociat
to the master of the congregation in helpe of

EDWIN
hym a vest rebelles and u beryng (upbearing)
the rygt of the reme ." (L l . 901-912 .)
Edward III . M S ., as quoted by Anderson .
"That when the Master and Wardens pre-
side in a Lodge, the sheriff if need be, or the
mayor or the alderman (if a brother) where
the Chapter is held, shall be sociate to the
Master, in help of him against rebels and for
upholding the rights of the realm ."
The identity of the two documents is ap-
parent . Either the Edward I II . M S . was
copied from the Cooke, or both were derived
from a common original .
Edwin . 	The son of Edward, Saxon king
of England, who died in 924, and was suc-
ceeded by his eldest son, Athelstan . The
Masonic tradition is that Athelstan appointed
his brother Edwin the Patron of Masonry in
England, and gave him what the Old Records
call a free Charter to hold an Annual Com-
munication or General Assembly, under the
authority of which he summoned the Masons
of England to meet him in a Congregation at
York, where they met in 926 and formed the
Grand Lodge of England . The Old Records
say that these Masons brought with them
many old writings and records of the Craft,
some in Greek, some in Latin, some in French,
and other languages, and from these framed
the document now known as the York Con-
stitutions, whose authenticity has been in
recent years so much a subject of controversy
among Masonic writers . Prince Edwin died
two years before his brother, and a report was
spread of his being put wrongfully to death
by him ; "but this,' says Preston, "is so im-
probable in itself so inconsistent with the
character of Athelstan, and, indeed, so slen-
derly attested, as to be undeserving a place in
history ." William of Malmesbury, the old
chronicler, relates the story, but confesses that
it had no better foundation than some old
ballads . But now come the later Masonic
antiquaries, who assert that Edwin himself
is only a myth, and that', in spite of the au-
thority of a few historical writers, Athelstan
had no son or brother of the name of Edwin .
Woodford (Old Charges of the Brit . Freema-
sons, p . xiv .) thinks that the Masonic tradi-
tion points to Edwin, King of Northumbria,
whose rendezvous was once at Auldby, near
York, and who in 627 aided in the building of a
stone church at York, after his baptism there,
with Roman workmen . "Tradition," he says,
"sometimes gets confused after they lapse of
time ; but I believe the tradition is in itself
true which links Masonry to the church build-
ing at York by the Operative Brotherhood,
under Edwin, in 627, and to a gild Charter
under Athelstan, in 927 ."
The legend of Prince Edwin, of course
requires some modification, but we should
not be too hasty in rejecting altogether a
tradition which has been so long and so uni-
versally accepted by the Fraternity, and to
which Anderson, Preston, Krause, Oliver, and
a host of other writers, have subscribed their
assent . The subject will be fully discussed
under the head of York Legend, which see .
EGYPTIAN 	231
Edwin Charges . The charges said to have
been given by Prince Edwin, and contained
in the Antiquity MS ., are sometimes so called .
(See Antiquity Manuscript .)
Egg, Mundane . 	It was a belief of almost
all the ancient nations, that the world was
hatched from an egg made by the Creator
over which the Spirit of God was represented
as hovering in the same manner as a bird
broods or flutters over her eggs . Faber
(Pag . Idol ., i . 1 4), who traced everything to the
Arkite worship, says that this egg, which was
a symbol of the resurrection, was no other than
the ark ; and as Dionysus was fabled in the
Orphic hymns to be born from an egg, he and
Noah were the same person ; wherefore the
birth of Dionysus or Brahma, or any other
hero god from an egg, was nothing more than
the egress of Noah from the ark . Be this as
it may, the egg has been always deemed a
symbol of the resurrection, and hence the
Christian use of Easter eggs on the great feast
of the resurrection of our Lord . As this is the
most universally diffused of all symbols, it is
strange that it has found no place in the sym-
bolism of Freemasonry, which deals so much
with the doctrine of the resurrection, of which
the egg was everywhere the recognized symbol .
It was, however, used by the ancient archi-
tects, and from them was adopted by the
Operative Masons of the Middle Ages, one of
whose favorite ornaments was the ovolo, or
egg-molding .
Eglinton Manuscript . 	An Old Record
dated December 28, 1599 . It is so named
from its having been discovered some years
ago in the charter chest at Eglinton Castle .
It is a Scottish manuscript, and is valuable
for its details of early Masonry in Scotland .
In it, Edinburgh is termed "the first and
princpal Lodge," and Kilwinning is called
"the heid and secund Ludge of Scotland in all
tyme cuming ." An exact copy of it was
taken by Bro . D . Murray Lyon, and published
in his History of the Lodge of Edinburgh .
(P . 12 .) It has also been printed in Hughan's
Masonic Sketches and Reprints .
Egyptian Hieroglyphs . The extent of
parallelism between the innumerable hiero-
glyphs on the tombs and monuments of India
an 	Egypt and the symbols and emblems
of Freemasonry, taken together with their
esoteric interpretation, has caused very many
well-thinking Masons to believe in an Indian
or Egyptian origin of our speculative institu-
tion of the present day . So close and numer-
ous are these symbols and their meaning that
it becomes difficult for the mind to free itself
from a fixed conclusion ; and some of the best
students feel confident in their judgment to
this end, more especially when tracing the
Leader "Moses,
Egyptians," from 	1 	,
learned in all the
wisdom of 	the 11 M S S arME S
that country to
Palestine with the twelve tribes of Israel
and their successors building that Holy
House in Jerusalem, which has become the

232 	EGYPTIAN
chief Masonic symbol . 	Some have abomi-
nated this theory on the ground of alleged
polytheism existing among the Egypt but
this existed only at a later day m the life of
the nation, as it also existed among the cor-
ru ted Jews in its worst form, for which see
2 ' 	ch . 17-21 .
Bro . Thomas Pryer presents this evidence
• a monotheistic belief, of pristine purity,
among the early Egyptians, ages prior to
Abraham's day . We give the hieroglyphs
• their interpretation :
May
thy soul
attain (come)
to
Kmgi m (Spirit of God, one of the
forms of AMoN, the Creator),
The Creator (the idea denoted by a
ma n building the walls of a city) P1
• all
mankind (literally men and women .)
%X, 1
May thy soul attain to KHNUM, the Creator of
all mankind .
How prophetical were the Books of Her-
mes, "0 Egypt, Egyptl a time shall come,
when, in lieu of a pure religion, and of a pure
belief, thou wilt possess naught but ridiculous
fables, incredible to posterity ; and nothing
will remain to thee, but words engraven on
stone, the only monuments that will attest thy
piety ."
Egyptian Masonry . See Cagliostro .
Egyptian Months . 	Named Thoth, Pa-
ophi, Athyr, Choiak Tybi, Mechir Pha-
menoth Pharmuthi, 1'ashons, Payni, Epiphi,
• 	1V1'esore . The above twelve months,
commencing with March 1st, were composed of
thirty days each, and the five
su=),
entary
days were dedicated to Hesiri 	Hor
(Horns), Set (Typhon), His (Isis), and Nebti
(Nephthys) . The sacred year commenced
July 20th ; the Alexandrian year, August 29th,
B .c . 25 .
Egyptian Mysteries . 	Egypt has always
been considered as the birthplace of the mys-
teries . It was there that the ceremonies of
initiation were first established . It was there
that truth was first veiled in allegory, and
the dogmas of religion were first imparted
under symbolic forms . From Egypt "the
land of the winged globe"-the land of
science and philosophy, "peerless for stately
tombs and magnificent temples-the land
whose civilization was old and mature before
other nations, since called to empire had a
name"-this system of symbols was dissemi-
nated through Greece and Rome and other
countries of Europe and Asia, giving ongm ,
through many intermediate steps, to that
1~
r
EGYPTIAN
mysterious association which is now repre-
sented by the Institution of Freemasonry .
To Egypt, therefore, Masons have always
looked with peculiar interest as the cradle of
that mysterious science of symbolism whose
peculiar modes of teaching they alone, of all
modern institutions, have preserved to the
present day .
The initiation into the Egyptian mysteries
was, of all the systems practised by the an-
cients, the most severe and impressive . The
Greeks at Eleusis imitated it to some extent,
but they never reached the magnitude of its
forms nor the austerity of its discipline . The
system had been organized for ages, and the
priests, who alone were the hierophants-the
explainers of the mysteries, or, as we should
call them in Masonic language, the Masters
of the Lodges-were educated almost from
childhood for the business in which they were
engaged . That "learning of the Egyptians,"
in which Moses is said to have been so skilled,
was all imparted in these mysteries . It was
confined to the priests and to the initiates ;
and the trials of initiation through which the
latter had to pass were so difficult to be en-
dured that none but those who were stimu-
lated iiy the most ardent thirst for knowledge
dared to undertake them or succeeded in sub-
mitting to them .
The priesthood of Egypt constituted a
sacred caste, in whom the sacerdotal functions
were hereditary . They exercised also an im-
portant part in the government of the state,
and the kings of Egypt were but the first
subjects of its priests . They had originally
organized, and continued to control, the
ceremonies of initiation . Their doctrines
were of two kinds-exoteric or public which
were communicated to the multitude, and
esoteric or secret which were revealed only to
a chosen few ; and to obtain them it was neces-
sary to pass through an initiation which was
characterized by the severest trials of courage
and fortitude .
The principal seat of the mysteries was at
Memphis, in the neighborhood of the great
Pyramid . They were of two kinds, the
greater and the less ; the former being the
mysteries of Osiris and Serapis, the latter
those of Isis . The mysteries of Osiris were
celebrated at the autumnal equinox those of
Serapis at the summer solstice, ana those of
Isis at the vernal equinox .
The candidate was required to exhibit
proofs of a blameless life . For some days
previous to the commencement of the cere-
monies of initiation, he abstained from all
unchaste acts, confined himself to an exceed-
ingly light diet, from which animal food was
rigorously excluded, and purified himself by
repeated ablutions .
Apuleius (Met . lib . xi .), who had been in-
itiated in all of them, thus alludes with cau-
tious reticence, to those of Isis : "h 	a priest,
all the profane being removed to a distance,
taking hold of me by the hand, brought me
into the inner recesses of the sanctuary itself,
clothed in a new linen garment . Perhaps,

EGYPTIAN
curious reader, you ma be eager to know
what was then said andy done . I would tell
you were it lawful for me to tell you ; you
should know it if it were lawful for you to
hear . But both the ears that heard those
things and the tongue that told them would
reap the evil results of their rashness . Still,
however, kept in suspense, as you probably
are, with religious longing, I will not torment
you with long-protracted anxiety . Hear
therefore, but believe what is the truth . 	1
approached the confines of death, and, having
trod on the threshold of Proserpine, I returned
therefrom, being borne through all the ele-
ments . At midnight I saw the sun shining
with its brilliant light ; and I approached the
presence of the gods beneath and the gods
above, and stood near and worshiped them .
Behold, I have related to you things of which,
though heard by you, you must necessarily
remain ignorant ."
The first degree, as we may term it, of
Egyptian initiation was that into the mys-
teries of Isis . What was its peculiar import,
we are unable to say . Isis, says Knight, was,
among the later Egyptians, the personification
of universal nature . To Apuleius she says :
"I am nature-the parent of all things, the
sovereign of the elements, the primary
progeny of time ." Plutarch tells us that on
the front of the temple of Isis was placed this
inscription : "I, Isis am all that has been, that
is, or shall be, and no mortal bath ever un-
veiled me ." Thus we may conjecture that
the Isiac mysteries were descriptive of the
alternate decayin and renovating powers of
nature . Higgi ns (An eal ., ii ., 102) it is true,
says that during the mysteries ofIsis were
celebrated the misfortunes and trag~'cal death
of Osiris in a sort of drama ; and Apuleius
asserts that the initiation into her mysteries
is celebrated as bearing a close resemblance
to a voluntary death, with a precarious
chance of recovery . But Higgins gives no
authority for his statement and that of
Apuleius cannot be constrained; into any refer-
ence to the enforced death of Osiris . It is,
therefore, probable that the ceremonies of this
initiation were simply preparatory to that of
the Osirian, and taught, by instructions in the
physical laws of nature, the necessity of moral
purification, a theory which is not incom-
patible with all the mystical allusions of
Apuleius when he describes his own initia-
tion .
The Mysteries of Serapis constituted the
second degree of the Egyptian initiation .
Of these rites we have but a scanty knowledge .
Herodotus is entirely silent concerning them
and Apuleius, calling them "the nocturnal
orgies of Serapis, a god of the first rank," only
intimates that they followed those of Isis, and
were preparatory to the last and greatest
initiation . Serapis is said to have been only
Osiris while in Hades ; and hence the Serapian
initiation might have represented the death of
Osiris, but leaving the lesson of resurrection
for a subsequent initiation . But this is mere-
ly a conjecture .
EGYPTIAN 	233
In the mysteries of Osiris, which were the
consummation of the Egyptian system, the
lesson of death and resurrection was symbolic-
ally taught ; and the legend of the murder
of Osiris, the search for the body, its discovery
and restoration to life is scenically repre-
sented . This legend of initiation was as follows :
Osiris t a wise king of Egy pt, left the care of
his kingdom to his wife lsis 7 and traveled
for three years to communicate to other
nations the arts of civilization . During his
absence, his brother Typhon formed a secret
conspiracy to destroy him and to usurp his
throne . On his return, Osiris was invited by
Typhon to an entertainment in the month of
November, at which all the conspirators were
present . Typhon produced a chest inlaid
with gold, and promised to give it to any per-
son present whose body would most exactly
fit it . Osiris was tempted to try the experi-
ment ; but he had no sooner laid down in the
chest, than the lid was closed and nailed down,
and the chest thrown into the river Nile . The
chest containing the body of Osiris was, after
being for a long time tossed about by the
waves, finally cast up at Byblos in Phoenicia,
and left at the foot of a tamarisk tree . Isis,
overwhelmed with grief for the loss of her
husband, set out on a journeyand traversed
the earth in search of the body .
adventures, she at length discovered the spot
whence it had been thrown up by the waves
and returned with it in triumph to Egypt . It
was then proclaimed, with the most extrav-
agant demonstrations of joy, that Osiris was
risen from the dead and had become a
god . Such, with slight variations of details
by different writers, are the general outlines
of the Osiric legend which was represented in
the drama of initiation . Its resemblance to
the Hiramic legend of the Masonic system will
be readily seen, and its symbolism will be
easily understood . Osiris and Typhon are
the representatives of the two antagonistic
principles-good and evil, light and darkness,
life and death .
There is also an astronomical interpretation
of the legend which makes Osiris the sun and
Typhon the season of winter, which suspends
the fecundating and fertilizing powers of the
sun or destroys its life, to be restored only by
the return of invigorating spring . ~
The sufferings and death of Osiris were the
great mystery of the Egyptian religion . His
being the abstract idea of the Divine goodness,
his manifestation upon earth, his death, his
resurrection, and his subsequent office as
judge of the dead in a future state, look says
Wilkinson, like the early revelation of a f tuture
manifestation of the Deity converted into a
mythological fable .
Into these mysteries Herodotus, Plutarch,
and Pythagoras were initiated, and the former
two have given brief accounts of them . But
their own knowledge must have been ex-
tremely limited, for, as Clement of Alexandria
(Strom ., v ., 7) tells us, the more important
secrets were not revealed even to all the
priests, but to a select number of them only .

234 	EGYPTIAN
Egyptian Priests, Initiations of the . In
the year 1770, there was published at Berlin
a work entitled Crata Repoa ; oder Einweihun-
gen der Egyptischen Priester, i . e ., Crata Repoa ;
or, Initiations of the Egyptian Priests . This
book was subsequently republished in 1778,
and translated into French under the revision
of Ragon, and published at Paris in 1821, by
Bailleul . 	It professed to give the whole
formula of the initiation into the mysteries
practised by the ancient Egyptian priests .
Lenning cites the work, and gives an outline
of the system as if he thought it an authentic
relation ; but GAdicke more prudently says of
it that he doubts that there are more mys-
teries described in the book than were ever
practised by the ancient Egyptian priests .
The French writers have generally accepted
it as genuine . Forty years before, the Abbo
Terrasson had written a somewhat similar
work, in which he pretended to describe the
initiation of a Prince of Egypt . Moss, in his
Bibliography has placed this latter work un-
der the head of ` Romances of the Order" ;
and a similar place should doubtless be as-
signed to the Crata Repoa . 	The curious
may, however, be gratified by a brief detail of
the system .
According to the Crata Repoa, the priest
of Egypt conferred their initiation at Thebes .
The mysteries were divided into the follow-
ing seven degrees : 	1 . Pastophoros . 2 . Neo-
corns . 	3 . Melanophoros . 4 . Kistophoros .
5 . Balahate . 	6 . Astronomos . 	7 . Propheta .
Th e first degree was devoted to instructions
in the physical sciences ; the second, to geom-
etry and architecture . In the third degree,
the candidate was instructed in the symboli-
cal death of Osiris, and was made acquainted
with the hieroglyphical language . In the
fourth he was presented with the book of the
laws of Egypt, and became a judge . The
instructions of the fifth degree were dedicated
to chemistry, and of the sixth to astronomy
and 	the 	mathematical sciences . In the
seventh and last degree the candidate received
a detailed explanation of all the mysteries
his head was shaved, and he was presented
with a cross, which he was constantly to carry, 	.
a white mantle, and a square head dress . To
each degree was attached a word and sign .
Anyone who should carefully read the Crata
Repoa would be convinced that, so far from
being founded on any ancient system of
initiation, it was simply a modern invention
made up out of the high degrees of continental
Masonry . It is indeed surprising that Len-
and Ragon should have treated it as if it
Wthe least claims to antiquity .
[It has been suggested that Crata Repoa
may be an anagram for Arcta Opera or
"close finished works ."-E . L . H .1
Eheyeh asher Eheyeh . The pronuncia-
tion of 1 1 1At "ITUit 1N1K, which means, I am that
I am, and is one of the pentateuchal names of
God . 	It is related in the third chapter of
Exodus, that when God appeared to Moses
in the burning bush, and drected him to go
to Pharaoh and to the children of Israel in
EJThYE$
t, Moses required that, as preliminary
to 	s mission, he should be instructed in the
name of God, so that, when he was asked by
the Israelites, he might be able to prove his
mission by announcing what that name was ;
and God said to him, i i'i"IK (Eheyeh), I am
that I am ; and he directed him to say, "I am
hath sent you ." 	Eheyeh asher eheyeh is,
therefore, the name of God, in which Moses
was instructed at the burning bush .
r
Maimonides thinks that when the Lord
ordered Moses to tell the people that 1'1K
(Eheyeh) sent him, he did not mean that he
should only mention his name ; for if they were
already acquainted with it, he told them noth-
ing new, and if they were not, it was not likely
that they would be satisfied by saying such a
name sent me, for the proof would still be
wanting that this was really the name of God ;
therefore, he not only told them the name,
but also taught them its signification . In
those times, Sabaism being the predominant
religion, almost all men were idolaters, and
occupied themselves in the contemplation of
the heavens and the sun and the stars, without
y idea of a personal God in the world .
ow, the Lord, to deliver hispeo ple from such
an error, said to Moses "Go and tell them
I AM THAT I AM hath sent me unto you,"
which name 71',1K (Eheyeh), signifying Being,
is derived from 1„1 (heyeh), the verb of exist-
ence, and which, being repeated so that the
second is the predicate of the first, contains
the mystery . This is as if he had said, "Ex-
plain to them that I am what I am : that is,
that my Being is within myself, independent
of every other, different from all other beings,
who are so alone by virtue of my distributing
it to them, and might not have been, nor could
actually be such without it ." So that '11K
denotes the Divine Being Himself, by which
he taught Moses not only the name, but the
infallible demonstration of the Fountain of
Existence, as the name itself denotes . The
Kabbalists say that Eheyeh is the crown or
highest of the Sephiroth, and that it is the
name that was hidden in the most secret place
of the tabernacle .
The Talmudists had many fanciful exer-
citations on this word 1`1$, and, among
others, said that it is equivalent to D 1' . and
the four letters of which it is formed possess
peculiar propeeties . 	K is in Hebrew numeri-
cally equivalent to 1, and I to 10, which is
equal to 11 ; a result also obtained by taking
the second and third letters of the holy name,
or 1 and 1 which are 5 and 6, amounting to
11 . 	But the 5 and 6 invariably produce the
same number in their multiplication, for 5 .
times 5 are 25, and 6 times 6 are 36, and this
invariable product of 1 and 1 was said to de-
note the unchangeableness of the First Cause .
Again, I am, 1^1K, commences with $ or 1, the
beginning of numbers, and Jehovah,111`, with
or 10, the end of numbers, which signified
that God was the beginning and end of all
things . The phrase Eheyeh asher eheyeh is
of importance in the study of the legend of
the Royal Arch system . Some years ago,

EIGHT
that learned Mason, William S . Rockwell,
while preparing his Ahiman Rezon for the
State of Georgia, undertook, but beyond that
jurisdiction unsuccessfully, to introduce it as
a password to the veils .
Eight . 	Among the Pythagoreans the num-
ber eight was esteemed as the first cube, being
formed by the continued multiplication of
2 X 2 X 2, and signified friendship, prudence,
counsel, and justice ; and, as the cube or re-
duplication of the first even number, it was
made to refer to the primitive law of nature,
which supposes all men to be equal . Chris-
tian numerical symbologists have called it the
symbol of the resurrection, because Jesus rose
on the 8th day, i . e . the day after the 7th,
and because the name of Jesus in Greek
numerals, corresponding to its Greek letters
is 10, 8, 200, 70, 400, 200, which, being added
up, is 888. Hence, too, they call it the
Dominical Number . As 8 persons were
saved in the ark, those who, like Faber, have
adopted the theory that the Arkite Rites per-
vaded all the religions of antiquity, find an
important symbolism in this number, and as
Noah was the type of the resurrection, they
again find in it a reference to that doctrine .
It can, however, be scarcely reckoned among
the numerical symbols of Masonry .
Eighty-One . 	A sacred number in the
high degrees, because it is the square of nine,
which is again the square of three . 	The
Pythagorean, however, who considered the
nine as a fatal number, especially dreaded
eighty-one, because it was produced by the
multiplication of nine by itself .
El, 5K . 	One of the Hebrew names of God,
signifying the Mighty One . 	It is the root
of many of the other names of Deity, and
also, therefore, of many of the sacred words
in the high degrees . Bryant (Anc . Myth . i .,
16) says it was the true name of God, but
transferred by the Sabians to the sun, whence
the Greeks borrowed their helios .
Elai bent almanah (Hebrew '=5K ']D
'SK, Hue venue flit viduce) . Third Degree
A . A . Scottish Rite .
Elal bent emeth (Heb ., tltK '» 'SK, Hue
venite flit veritatis) . 	Sometimes applied to
the Twenty-sixth Degree of the A . A . Scottish
Rite .
Elchanan, 	pth? . 	God 	has graciously
given . 	In the authorized version, it is im-
properly translated Elhanan . Jerome says
that it meant David, because in 2 Sam . xxi .
19 it is said that Elchanan slew Goliath . A
significant word in the high degrees, which
has undergone much corruption and various
changes of form . In the old rituals it is
Elebam . Lenning gives Elchanam, and in-
correctly translates, mercy of God ; Delaunay
calls it Eliham, and translates it, God of the
people, in which Pike concurs .
Elders . This word is used in some of the
old Constitutions to designate those Masons
who, from their rank and age, were deputed
to obligate Apprentices when admitted into
the Craft . Thus in the Constitutions of Ma-
sonrie, preserved in the archives of the York
r
ELECT 	235
Lodge, No . 236 (York Roll No . 2), with the
date of 1704, we find this expression, Tum
unus ex Senioribus Teneat librum, etc ., which
in another manuscript, dated 1693, preserved
in the same archives (York Roll No . 4), is thus
translated : "Then one of the elders takeing
the Booke, and that bee or shee that is to bee
made Mason shall lay their hands thereon
and the charge shall be given ." These old
MSS . have been published by W . J . Hughan
in Ancient Masonic Rolls of Constitutions,
&c ., 1894 .
Elect . See Elu .
Elect Brother . The Seventh Degree of the
Rite of Zinnendorf and of the National Grand
Lodge of Berlin .
Elect Cohens, Order of . 	See Paschalis,
Martinez .
Elect Commander . 	(Elu Commandeur .)
A degree mentioned in Fustier's nomen-
clature of degrees .
Elect, Depositary . A degree mentioned
in Pyron's collection .
Elect, Grand . 	(Grand Elu .) 	The Four-
teenth Degree of the Chapter of the Emperors
of the East and West . The same as the
Grand Elect, Perfect and Sublime Mason of
the Scottish Rite .
Elect, Grand Prince of the Three . 	A
degree mentioned in Pyron's collection .
Elect, Irish . 	(Elu Irlandais .) 	The first
of the high grades of the Chapters of that
name .
Elect Lady, Sublime . 	(Dame, Elu Sub-
lime .) 	An androgynous degree contained in
the collection of Pyron .
Elect, Little English . (PetitElu Anglais .)
The Little English Elect was a degree of the
Ancient Chapter of Clermont . The degree is
now extinct .
Elect Master . 	(Maitre Elu .) 	1 . The
Thirteenth Degree of the collection of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France . 2 . The
Fifth Degree of the Rite of Zinnendorf .
Elect of Fifteen . 	(Elu des Quinze .) 	The
Tenth Degree in the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite . The place of meetingg is called
a Chapter ; the emblematic color is black,
strewed with tears ; and the principal officers
are a Thrice Illustrious Master and two In-
s 	tors . The history of this degree develops
t e continuation and conclusion of the pun-
ishment inflicted on three traitors who, just
before the conclusion of the Temple, had com-
mitted a crime of the most atrocious char-
acter . The degree is now more commonly
called Illustrious Elu of the Fifteen . 	The
same degree is found in the Chapter of Em-
perors of the East and West, and in the Rite
of, Mizraim .
Elect of London . 	(Elus des Londres .)
The Seventieth Degree of the collection of
the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Elect of Nine . 	(Elu des Neuf.) 	The
Ninth Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite . In the old rituals there were two offi-
cers who represented Solomon and Stolkin .
But in the revised ritual of the Southern Juris-
diction, the principal officers are a Master and

236 	ELECT
two Inspectors . 	The meetings are called
Chapters . 	The degree details the mode in
which certain traitors, who, just before the
completion of the Temple had been engaged
in an execrable deed of vihlany, received their
punishment . The symbolic colors are red,
white, and black ; the white emblematic of the
purity of the knights ; the red of the crime
which was committed ; and the black, of grief .
This is the first of the Btu degrees, and the
one on which the whole Btu system has been
founded .
Elect of Nine and Fifteen . 	(Auserwahlts
der Neun and der Fiinfzehn .) 	The first and
second points of the Fourth Degree of the old
system of the Royal York Lodge of Berlin .
Elect of Perignan . 	(Elu de Perignan .)
A degree illustrative of the punishment in-
flicted upon certain criminals whose exploits
constitute a portion of the legend of Sym-
bolic Masonry . The substance of this degree
is to be found in the Elect of Nine and Elect
of Fifteen in the Scottish Rite with both of
which it is closely connected . It is the
Sixth Degree of the Adonhiramite Rite . (See
Perignan .)
Elect of the New Jerusalem . 	Formerly
the Eighth and last of the high degrees of the
Grand Chapter of Berlin .
Elect of the Twelve Tribes . (Btu des douze
Tribus .) 	The Seventeenth Degree of the col-
lection of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Elect of Truth, Rite of . 	(Rite des Elus
de la Verite .) 	This Rite was instituted in
1776, by the Lodge of Perfect Union, at
Rennes, in France . A few Lodges in the in-
terior of France adopted this regime ; but, not-
withstanding its philosophical character, it
never became popular, and finally, about the
end of the eighteenth century, fell into disuse .
It consisted of twelve degrees divided into
two classes, as follows :
1st Class . Knights Adepts . 1 . Apprentice ;
2 . Fellow-Craft ; 3 . Master ; 4 . Perfect Master .
2d Class . 	Elects of Truth . 5 . Elect of
Nine ; 6 . Elect of Fifteen ; 7 . Master Elect -
8 . Architect ; 9 . Second Architect ; 10 . Grand
Architect ; 11 . Knight of the East ; 12 . Prince
of Rose Croix .
Elect of Twelve . See Knight Elect of
Twelve .
Elect, 	Perfect . 	(Parfait Btu .) 	The
Twelfth Degree of the Metropolitan Chapter
of France, and also of the Rite of Mizraim .
Elect, Perfect and Sublime Mason .
See Perfection, Lodge of .
Elect Philosopher . 	A degree under this
name is found in the instructions of the philo-
sophic Scottish Rite, and in the collection of
Viany .
-Elect Secret, Severe Inspector . 	(Elu
Secret, Severe Inspectour .) 	The Fourteenth
Degree of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Elect, Sovereign . 	(Elu Souverain .) 	The
Fifty-ninth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Elect, 	Sublime . 	(Elu Sublime .) 	The
Fifteenth Degree of the collection . of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
ELEMENTS
Elect, Supreme . 	(Btu Supreme .) 	The
Seventy-fourth Degree of the collection of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France . It is also
a degree in the collection of M . Pyron, and,
under the name of Tabernacle of Perfect
Elect, is contained in the archives of the
Mother Lodge of the Philosophic Rite .
Elect, Symbolical . 	Fifth Degree of the
Reformed Rite of Baron Von Tachoudy .
Eiecta . 	Fifth Degree in the American
Adoptive system of the Eastern Star . 	[So
named from the lady, whose real name is un-
known, to whom the 2d Epistle of St . John is
addressed, and who, according to tradition,
"joyfully rendered up home, husband, chil-
dren, good name and life, that she might
testify to her Christian love by a martyr's
death ."-E . L . H .]
t
Election of Officers . The election of the
officers of a Lodge is generally held on the
meeting which precedes the festival of St .
John the Evangelist, and sometimes on that
festival itself . Should a Lodge fail to make
the election at that time, no election can be
subsequently held except by dispensation ;
and it is now very generally admitted, that
should any one of the officers die or remove
from the jurisdiction during the period for
which he was elected, no election can take
place to supply the vacancy, but the office
must be filled tem orarily until the next elec-
ion . If it be the M aster, the Senior Warden
succeeds to the office . For the full exposition
of the law on this subject, see Vacancies in
Office .
Elective Officers . 	In America, all the
offices of a Symbolic Lodge except the Dea-
cons, Stewards, and sometimes the Tiler, are
elected by the members of the Lodge . In
England, the rule is different . There the
Master, Treasurer, and Tiler only are elected ;
the other officers are appointed by the Master .
Eleham . See Elchanan .
Elements . 	It was the doctrine of the old
philosophies, sustained by the authority of
Aristotle, that there were four principles of
matter-fire, air, earth, and water-which
they called elements . Modern science has
shown the fallacy of the theory . But it was
also taught by the Kabbalists, and afterward
by the Rosicrucians, who, according to the
Abbe de Villars (Le Comte de Gabolis), peo-
pled them with supernatural beings called,
m the fire, Salamanders ; in the air, Sylphs ;
in the earth, Gnomes ; and in the water,
Undines . From the Rosicrucians and the
Kabbalists, the doctrine passed over into
some of the high degrees of Masonry, and is
especially referred to in the Ecossais or
Scottish Knight of St . Andrew, originally in-
vented by the Chevalier Ramsay . In this
degree we find the four angels of the four
elements described as Andarel, the angel of
fire ; Casmaran, of air Talliad, of water ; and
Furlac, of earth ; and the signs refer to the
same elements .
Elements, Test of the . 	A ceremonial in
the First and Twenty-fourth degrees of the
A . A . Scottish Rite .

ELEPHANTA
Elephants . 	The cavern of Elephanta,
situated on the island of Gharipour, in the
Gulf of Bombay, is the most ancient temple
in the world, and was the principal place for
the celebration of the mysteries of India . It
is one hundred and thirty-five feet square and
ei ghteen feet high, supported by four massive
pillars, and its walls covered on all sides with
statues and carved decorations . Its adytunr
at the western extremity, which was accessible
only to the initiated, was dedicated to the
Phallic worship . On each side were cells and
pass ag es for the purpose of initiation, and a
sacred orifice for the mystical representation
of the doctrine of regeneration . (See Mau-
rice's Indian Antiquities, for a full description
of this ancient scene of initiation .)
Eleusinian Mysteries . 	Of all the mys-
teries of the ancient religions, those celebrated
at the village of Eleusis, near the city of
Athens, were the most splendid and the most
popular . To them men came, says Cicero,
from the remotest regions to be initiated .
They were also the most ancient, if we may
believe St . Epiphanius, who traces them to
the reign of Inachus, more than eighteen hun-
dred years before the Christian era . They
were dedicated to the goddess Demeter, the
Ceres of the Romans, who was worshiped by
the Greeks as the symbol of the prolific earth ;
and in them were scenically represented the
loss and the recovery of Persephone, and the
doctrines of the unity of God and the im-
mortality of the soul were esoterically taught .
The learned Faber believed that there was
an intimate connection between the Arkite
worship and the mysteries of Eleusis ; but
Faber's theory was that the Arkite Rites,
which he traced to almost all the nations of
antiquity, symbolized, in the escape of Noah
and the renovation of the earth, the doctrines
of the resurrection and the immortal life .
Plutarch (De Is . et Os .) says that the travels
of Isis in search of Osiris were not different
from those of Demeter in search of Per-
sephone ; and this view has been adopted by
St . Croix (Myst . du Pag .) and by Creuzer
(Symb .) ; and hence we may well suppose that
the recovery of the former at Byblos, and of
the latter in Hades, were both intended to
symbolize the restoration of the soul after
death to eternal life . The learned have
generally admitted that when Vir ' , in the
sixth book of his fEneid, depicted the descent
of 	s	neas into hell, he intended to give a
representation of the Eleusinian mysteries .
The mysteries were divided into two classes,
the lesser and the greater . The lesser mys-
teries were celebrated on the banks of the
Ilissus, whose waters supplied the means of
purification of the aspirants . The greater
mysteries were celebrated in the temple at
Eleusis . An interval of six months occurred
between them, the former taking place in
March and the latter in September ; which
has led some writers to suppose that there
was some m y stical reference to the vernal
and autumnal equinoxes . But, considering
the character of Demeter as the goddess of
ELEUSINIAN 	237
Agriculture, it might be imagined, although
this is a mere conjecture, that the reference
was to seed-time and harvest . A year, how-
ever, was required to elapse before the initiate
into the lesser mysteries was granted admis-
sion into the greater .
In conducting the mysteries, there were
four officers, namely : 1 . The Hierophant, or
explainer of the sacred things . As the
pontifex maximus in Rome, so he was the
chief priest of Attica ; he presided over
the ceremonies and explained the nature of
the mysteries to the initiated . 2 . The Da-
douchus, or torch-bearer, who appears to
have acted as the immediate assistant of the
Hierophant . 3 . The Hieroceryx, or sacred
herald, who had the general care of the tem-
ple, guarded it from the profanation of the
uninitiated, and took charge of the aspirant
during the trials of initiation . 4 . The Epi-
bomus, or altar-server, who conducted the
sacrifices .
The ceremonies of initiation into the lesser
mysteries were altogether purificato ry , , and
intended to prepare the neophyte for his
reception into the more sublime rites of the
greater mysteries . This, an ancient poet,
quoted by Plutarch, illustrates by sayin g that
sleep is the lesser mysteries of the death .
The candidate who desired to pass throu g h
this initiation entered the modest temple,
erected for that purpose on the borders of the
Ilissus, and there submitted to the required
ablutions, typical of moral purification . The
Dadouchus then placed his feet upon the
skins of the victims which had been immo-
lated to Jupiter . Hesychius says that only
the left foot was placed on the skins . In this
position he was asked if he had eaten bread,
and if he was pure ; and his replies being satis-
factory, he passed through other symbolic
ceremonies, the mystical signification of which
was given to him, an oath of secrecy having
been p reviously administered . The initiate
into the lesser mysteries was called a m stes,
a title which, being derived from a reek
word meaning to shut the eyes, signified that
he was yet blind as to the greater truths
thereafter to be revealed .
The greater mysteries lasted for nine days,
and were celebrated partly on the Thriasian
plain, which surrounded the temple and
partly in the temple of Eleusis i tself . b f this
temple, one of the most magnificent and the
largest in Greece, not a vestige is now left .
Its antiquity was very great, having been in
existence, according to Aristides the rheto-
rician, when the Dorians marched against
Athens . It was burned by the retreating
Persians under Xerxes, but immediately re-
built, and finally destroyed with the city by
Alarie, "the Scourge of God," and all that
is now left of Eleusis and its s p acious temple
is the mere site occupied by the insignificant
Greek village of Lepsina, an evident corrup-
tion of the ancient name .
The public processions on the plain and on
the sacred way from Athens to Eleusis were
made in honor of Demeter and Persephone,

238 	ELEUSINIAN
and made mystical allusions to events in
the life of both, and of the infant Iacchus .
These processions were made in the daytime,
but the initiation was nocturnal, and was
reserved for the nights of the sixth and
seventh days .
The herald opened the ceremonies of initia-
tion into the greater mysteries by the proc-
lamation, 	Zads, &dS, f0'-r€ Slpnaoi, 	"Re-
tire, 0 ye profane ." Thus were the sacred
precincts tiled . The aspirant was clothed
with the skin of a calf . An oath of secrecy
was administered,, and he was then asked,
"Have you eaten bread?" The reply to
which was, "I have fasted ; I have drunk the
sacred mixture ; I have taken it out of the
chest ; I have spun - I have placed it in the bas-
ket, and from the basket laid it in the chest ."
By this reply, the aspirant showed that he
had been duly pre p ared by initiation into the
lesser mysteries ; for Clement of Alexandria
says that this formula was a shibboleth, or
password, by which the mystEe, or initiates,
into the lesser mysteries were known as such,
and admitted to the epopteia or greater
initiation . The gesture of spinning wool, in
imitation of what Demeter did in the time of
her affliction, seemed also to be used as a sign
of recognition .
The aspirant . was now clothed in the sa-
cred tunic, and awaited in the vestibule the
opening of the doors of the sanctuary .
What subsequently took place must be
left in great part to conjecture, although
modern writers have availed themselves of
all the allusions that are to be found in the
ancients . The temple consisted of three
parts : the megaron, or sanctuary, correspond-
ing to the holy place of the Temple of Solo-
mon ; the anactoron, or holy of holies, and a
subterranean apartment beneath the temple .
Each of these was probably occupied at a dif-
ferent portion of the initiation . The repre-
sentation of the infernal regions, and the
punishment of the uninitiated impious was
appropriated to the subterranean apartment,
and was, as Sylvestre de Sacy says (Notes to
St . Crbiz, i ., 360), an episode of the drama
which represented the adventures of Isis,
Osiris, and Typhon, or of Demeter, Per-
sephone, and Pluto . This drama, the same
author thinks, represented the carrying away
of Persephone, the travels of Demeter in
search of her lost daughter, her descent into
hell ; the union of Pluto with Persephone, and
was terminated by the return of Demeter into
the upper world and the light of day . The
representation of this drama commenced
immediately after the profane had been sent
from the temple . And it is easy to under-
stand how the groans and wailings with which
the tem p le at one time resounded might sym-
bolize the sufferings and the death of man,
and the subsequent rejoicin g s at the return of
the goddess might be typical of the joy for the
restoration of the soul to eternal life . Others
have conjectured that the drama of the mys-
teries represented, in the deportation of Per-
sephone to Hades by Pluto, the departure, as
ELEUSINIAN
it were, of the sun, or the deprivation of its
vivific power during the winter months, and
her rea p pearance on earth, the restoration of
the prolific sun in summer . Others again tell
us that the last act of the mysteries repre-
sented the restoration to life of the murdered
Zagreus, or Dionysus, by Demeter . Dio-
dorus says that the members of the body of
Zagreus lacerated by the Titans was repre-
sented in the ceremonies of mysteries, as well
as in the Orphic hymns- but he prudently
adds that he was not al]owed to reveal the
details to the uninitiated . Whatever was the
precise method of symbolism, it is evident
that the true interpretation was the restora-
tion from death to eternal life, and that the
funereal part of the initiation referred to a
loss, and the exultation afterward to a re-
covery . Hence it was folly to deny the coin-
cidence that exists between this Eleusinian
drama and that enacted in the Third Degree
of Masonry . It is not claimed that the one
was the uninterrupted successor of the other
but there must have been a common ideal
source for the origin of both . The lesson,
the dogma, the symbol, and the method of in-
struction are the same . Having now, as
Pindar sa y s, "descended beneath the hollow
earth, and beheld those mysteries," the initi-
ate ceased to be a mystes, or blind man, and
was thenceforth called an epopt, a word signi-
fyin g he who beholds .
The Eleusinian mysteries, which, by their
splendor, surpassed all contemporary mstitu-
tions of the kind, were deemed of so much
importance as to be taken under the special
protection of the state, and to the council of
five hundred were entrusted the observance
of the ordinances which regulated them . By
a law of Solon, the magistrates met every
year at the close of the festival, to pass sen-
tence upon any who had violated or trans-
gressed any of the rules which governed the
administration of the sacred rites . Any at-
tempt to disclose the esoteric ceremonies of
initiation was punished with death . Plu-
tarch tells us, in his Life of Alcibiades, that
that votary of pleasure was indicted for
sacrilege, because he had imitated the mys-
teries, and shown them to his companions in
the same dress as that worn by the Hiero-
phanti and we get from Livy (xxxi . 14), the
followin g relation :
Two Acarnanian youths, who had not been
initiated, accidentally entered the temple of
Demeter during the celebration of the mys-
teries . They were soon detected by their
absurd questions, and being carried to the
managers of the temple, although it was evi-
dent that their intrusion was accidental, they
were put to death for so horrible a crime . It
is not, therefore, surprising that, in the ac-
count of them we should find such uncertain
and even conflicting assertions of the ancient
writers, who hesitated to discuss publicly so
forbidden a subject .
The qualifications for initiation were ma-
turity of age and p urity of life . Such was
the theory, although in practise these qualifi-

ELEVEN
nations were not always rigidly regarded .
But the early doctrine was that none but the
pure, morally, and ceremonially, could be
admitted to initiation . At first, too, the
right of admission was restricted to natives
of Greece ; but even in the time of Herodotus
this law was dispensed with, and the citizens
of all countries were considered eligible . So
in time these mysteries were extended beyond
the limits of Greece, and in the days of the
empire they were introduced into Rome,
where they became exceedingly popular .
The scenic representations, the participation
in secret signs and words of recognition, the
instruction in a peculiar dogma, and the
establishment of a hidden bond of fraternity,
gave attraction to these mysteries, which
lasted until the very fall of the Roman Em-
pire, and exerted a powerful influence on the
mystical associations of the Middle Ages .
The bond of union which connects them with
the modern initiations of Freemasonry is evi-
dent in the common thought which pervades
and identifies both ; though it is difficult, and
perhaps impossible, to trace all the connecting
links of the historic chain . We see the be-
ginning and we see the end of one pervading
idea, but the central point is hidden from us
to await some future discoverer .
Eleven . 	In the 	Prestonian 	lectures,
eleven was a mystical number, and was the
final series of steps in the winding stairs of
the Fellow-Craft, which were said to consist
of 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11 . The eleven was referred
to the eleven apostles after the defection of
Judas and to the eleven sons of Jacob after
Josepii went into Egypt . But when the lec-
tures were revived Hemming, the eleven
was struck out . In Templar Masonry, how-
ever, eleven is still significant as being the
constitutional number required to open a
Commandery ; and here it is evidently allu-
sive of the eleven true disciples .
Eligibility for Initiation . See Qualifi-
cations of Candidates .
Elihoreph . 	One of Solomon's secretaries .
(See Ahiah .)
Elizabeth of England . Anderson (Con-
stitutions, 1738, p . 80) states that the following
circumstance is recorded of this sovereign :
Hearing that the Masons were in posses-
sion of secrets which they would not reveal,
and being jealous of all secret assemblies, she
sent an armed force to York, with intent to
break up their annual Grand Lodge . This
design, however, was happily frustrated by
the interposition of Sir Thomas Sackville, who
took care to initiate some of the chief officers
whom she had sent on this duty . They joined
in communication with the Masons, and made
so favorable a report to the queen on their
return that she countermanded her orders,
and never afterward attempted to disturb
the meetings of the Fraternity . 	[What
authority, if any, Anderson had for the story
is unknown .]
Elizabeth of Portugal . 	In May, 1792,
this queen, having conceived a suspicion of the
Lodges in Madeira, gave an order to the gov-
ELUS 	2 3 9
ernor to arrest all the Freemasons in the island,
and deliver them over to the Inquisition . The
rigorous execution of this order occasioned an
em igration of many families, ten of whom re-
paired to New York, and were liberally as-
sisted by the Masons of that city .
Elohim . 	A name applied in He-
brew to any deity, but sometimes also to the
true God . According to Lanci, it means the
most beneficent . 	It is not, however, much
used in Masonry .
It is an expression used throughout the first
chapter of Genesis, as applied to God in the
exercise of His creative power, and signifies the
"Divine Omnipotence, the Source of all
power, the Power of all powers," which was
in activity in the Creation . After which the
expression used for Deity is Jehovah, which
implies the Providence of God, and which could
not have been active until the world had been
created by Elohim .
Eloquence of Masonry . 	Lawyers boast
of the eloquence of the bar, and point to the
arguments of counsel in well-known cases ;
the clergy have the eloquence of the pulpit
exhibited in sermons, many of which have a
world-wide reputation ; and statesmen vaunt
of the eloquence of Congress--some of the
speeches, however, being indebted, it is said
for their power and beauty, to the talent of
the stenographic reporter rather than to the
member who is supposed to be the author .
Freemasonry, too, has its eloquence, which
is sometimes, although not always, of a very
high order . This eloquence is to be found in
the addresses orations, and discourses which
have usually been delivered on the great fes-
tivals of the Order, at consecrations of Lodges,
dedications of halls, and the laying of founda-
tion-stones . 	These addresses constitute, in
fact, the principal part of the early literature
of Freemasonry . (See Addresses, Masonic .)
Elu . 	The Fourth Degree of the French
Rite . 	(See Elm .)
Elul . ~~ti . 	The sixth month of the eccle-
siastical and the twelfth of the civil year of
the Jews . The twelfth also, therefore, of the
Masonic calendar used in the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite . It begins on the new
moon of August or September, and consists
of twenty-nine days .
Elus . The French word elu means elected ;
and the degrees, whose object is to detail the
detection and punishment of the actors in the
crime traditionally related in the Third Degree,
are called Elus, or the degrees of the Elected,
because they referred to those of the Craft
who were chosen or elected to make the dis-
covery, and to inflict the punishment . They
form a particular system of Masonry, and are
to be found in every Rite, if not in all in name,
at least in principle . In the York and Ameri-
can Rites, the Elu is incorporated in the Mas-
ter's Degree ; in the French Rite it constitutes
an independent degree ; and in the Scottish
Rite it consists of three degrees, the Ninth,
Tenth, and Eleventh . Ragon counts the five
preceding degrees among the Elus, but they
more properly belong to the Order of Masters .

2 40 	EMANATION
The symbolism of these Flu degrees has been
greatly mistaken and perverted by anti-
Masonic writers, who have thus attributed to
Masonry a spirit of vengeance which is not its
characteristic . They must be looked upon as
conveying only a symbolic meaning . Those
higher degrees, in which the object of the elec-
tion is changed and connected with Templar-
ism, are more properly called Kadoshes . Thory
says that all the Elus are derived from the de-
gree of Kadosh, which preceded them . There-
verse, we think, is the truth . The Elu system
sprang naturally from the Master's Degree,
and was only applied to Templarism when De
Molay was substituted for Hiram the Builder .
Emanation . 	Literally, "a flowing forth ."
The doctrine of emanations was a theory pre-
dominant in many of the Oriental religions,
such ,especially, as Brahmanism and Paraee-
ism, and subsequently adopted by the Kabba-
lists and the Gnostics, and taught by Philo
and Plato . It assumed that all things ema-
nated flowed forth (which is the literal mean-
ing of the word), or were developed and de-
scended by degrees from the Supreme Being .
Thus, in the ancient religion of India, the
anima mundi, or soul of the word, the mys-
terious source of all life, was identified with
Brahma, the Supreme God . The doctrine of
Gnosticism was that all beings emanated from
the Deity ; that there was a progressive de-
generation of these beings from the highest to
the lowest emanation, and a final redemption
and return of all to the purity of the Creator .
Philo taught that the Supreme Being was the
Primitive Light or the Archetype of Light,
whose rays illuminate, as from a common
source, all souls . The theory of emanations is
interesting to the Mason, because of the ref-
erence in many of the higher degrees to the
doctrines of Philo, the Gnostics, and the Kab-
balists .
Emanuel . 	A sacred word in some of the
high degrees, being one of the names applied
in Scripture to the Lord Jesus Christ . It is a
Greek form from the Hebrew, Immanuel,
~~t1]T]y, and signifies "God is with us ."
Embassy . 	The embassy of Zerubbabel
and four other Jewish chiefs to the court of
Darius, to obtain the protection of that mon-
arch from the encroachments of the Samari-
tans, who interrupted the labors in the re-
construction of the Temple, constitutes the
legend of the Sixteenth Degree of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite, and also of the
Red Cross Degree of the American Rite, which
is surely borrowed from the former . The his-
tory of this embassy is found in the eleventh
book of the Antiquities of Josephus, whence
the Masonic ritualists have undoubtedly taken
it . The only authority of Josephus is the apoc-
ryphal record of Esdras, and the authenticity
of the whole transaction is doubted or denied
by modem historians .
Emblem . 	The emblem is an occult rep-
resentation of something unknown or con-
cealed by a sign or thing that is known . Thus,
a square is in Freemasonry an emblem of
morality ; a plumb line, of rectitude of con-
EMERGENCY
duct ; and a level, of equality of human con .
ditions . 	Emblem is very generally used as
synonymous with symbol, although the two
words do not express exactly the same mean-
ing . An emblem is properly a representation
of an idea by a visible object, as in the exam-
ples quoted above ; but a symbol is more ex-
tensive in its application, includes every rep-
resentation of an idea by an image whether
that image is presented immediately to the
senses as a visible and tangible substance, or
only brought before the mind by words .
Hence an action or event as described, a myth
or 1egend, may be a symbol ; and hence, too,
it follows that while all emblems are sym bols,
all symbols are not emblems . (See Symbol .)
Emerald . In Hebrew, JDn, caphak . It was
the first stone in the first row of the high
priest's breastplate, and was referred to Levi .
Adam Clarke says it is the same stone as the
smaragdus, and is of a bright green color .
Josephus, the Septuagint, and the Jerusalem
Targum understood by the Hebrew word the
carbuncle, which is red . The modern emerald,
as everybody knows, is green .
Emergency . 	The general law of Masonry
requires a month to elapse between the time
of receiving a petition for initiation and that
of balloting for the candidate, and also that
there shall be an interval of one month be-
tween the reception of each of the degrees of
Craft Masonry . Cases sometimes occur when
a Lodge desires this probationary period to be
dispensed with, so that the candidate's peti-
tion may be received and balloted for at the
same communication, or so that the degrees
may be conferred at much shorter intervals .
As some reason must be assigned for the appli-
cation to the Grand Master for the dispensa-
tion, such reason is generally stated to be that
the candidate is about to go on a long journey
or some other equally valid . Cases of this kind
are called, in the technical language of Mar
sonry, cases of emergency . It is evident that
the emergency is made for the sake of the can-
didate, and not for that of the Lodge or of
Masonry . The too frequent occurrence of
applications for dispensations in cases of
emergency have been a fruitful source of evil,
as thereby unworthy persons, escaping the
ordeal of an investigation into character have
been introduced into the Order ; and even
where the candidates have been worthy, the
rapid passing through the degrees prevents a
due impression from being made on the mind,
and the candidate fails to justly appreciate the
beauties and merits of the Masonic system .
Hence, these cases of emergency have been
very unpopular with the most distinguished
members of the Fraternity . In the olden time
the Master and Wardens of the Lodge were
vested with the prerogative of deciding what
was a case of emergency ; but modem law
and usage (in America, at least) make the
Grand Master the sole judge of what consti-
tutes a case of emergency . [Under the Eng-
lish Constitution the emergency must be real
in the opinion of the Master of the Lodge con-
cerned . (Rule 185 .)]

EMERGENT
Emergent Lodge . A Lodge held at an
emergent meeting .
Emergent Meeting . 	The meeting of a
Lodge called to elect a candidate, and confer
the degrees in a case of emergency, or for any
other sudden and unexpected cause, has been
called an emergent meeting. The term is not
very common, but it has been used by W . S .
Mitchell and a few other writers .
Emeritus . 	Latin ; plural, emeriti . 	The
Romans applied this word-which comes
from the verb emerere, to gain by service-to a
soldier who had served out his time • hence
in the Supreme Councils of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite of this country, an
active member, who resigns his seat by reason
of age, infirmity, or for other cause deemed
good by the Council, may be elected an Emer-
itus member, and will possess the privilege of
proposing measures and being heard in debate,
but not of voting .
Emeth . 	Hebrew, =M . One of the words
in the high degrees . It signifies integrity,
fidelity, firmness, and constancy in keeping a
promise, and especially TRUTH, as opposed to
falsehood . In the Scottish Rite, the Sublime
Knights Elect of Twelve of the Eleventh De-
gree are called "Princes Emeth," which mean
simply men of exalted character who are de-
voted to truth .
Eminent . 	The title given to the Com-
mander or presiding officer of a Commandery
of Knights Templar, and to all officers below
the Grand Commander in a Grand Comman-
der . 	The Grand Commander is styled
I'M ght Eminent," and the Grand Master of
the brand Encampment of the United States,
"Most Eminent ." The word is from the Latin
eminens, "standing above," and literally sig-
nifies "exalted in rank ." Hence, it is a title
given to the cardinals in the Roman Church .
Emounah . 	(Fidelity, Truth .) The name of
the Fourth Step of the mystic ladder of the
Kadosh of the A . A . Scottish Rite .
Emperor of Lebanon . 	(Empereur du
Liban .) This degree, says Thory (Act . Lat ., i .,
311), which was a part of the collection of M .
Le Rouge, was composed in the isle of Bour-
bon, in 1778, by the Marquis de Beurnonville,
who was then National Grand Master of all
the Lodges of India .
Emperors of the East and West . In
1758 there was established in Paris a Chapter
called the "Council of Emperors of the East
and West ." The members assumed the titles
of "Sovereign Prince Masonsl " "Substitutes
General of the Royal Art, 	Grand Superin-
tendents and Officers of the Grand and Sov-
ereign Lodge of St . John of Jerusalem ." Their
ritual, which was based on the Templar sys-
tem, consisted of twenty-five degrees, as fol-
lows : 1 to 19, the same as the Scottish Rite •
20, Grand Patriarch Noachite ; 21, Key of
Masonry ; 22, Prince of Lebanon ; 23, Knight
of the Sun ; 24, Kadosh ; 25, Prince of the
Royal Secret . It granted warrants for Lodges
of the high degrees, appointed Grand In-
spectors and Deputies, and established several
subordinate bodies in the interior of France,
ENCAMPMENT 	241
among which was a "Council of Princes of the
Royal Secret," at Bordeaux . In 1763, one
Pincemaille, the Master of the Lodge La Can-
deur at Metz, began to publish an exposition
of these degrees in the serial numbers of a
work entitled Conversations Allegoriques sur
la Franche-Magonnerie . In 1764, the Grand
Lodge of France offered him 300 livres to sup-
press the book . Pincemaille accepted the
bribe but continued the publication, which
lasted until 1766 .
In 1758, the year of their establishment in
France, the degrees of this Rite of Heredom, or
of Perfection, as it was called, were carried by
the Marquis de Bernez to Berlin, and adopted
by the Grand Lodge of the Three Globes .
Between the years 1760 and 1765, there was
much dissension in the Rite . A new Council,
called the Knights of the East, was established
at Paris, in 1760, as the rival of the Emperors
of the East and West . The controversies of
these two bodies were carried into the Grand
Lodge, which, in 1766, was compelled, for the
sake of peace, to issue a decree in opposition
to the high degrees, excluding the malcon-
tents, and forbidding the symbolical Lodges to
recognize the authority of these Chapters .
But the excluded Masons continued to work
clandestinely and to grant warrants . From
that time until its dissolution, the history of
the Council of the Emperors of the East and
West is but a history of continuous disputes
with the Grand Lodge of France . At length,
in 1781, it was completely absorbed in the
Grand Orient, and has no longer an existence .
The assertion of Thory (Act . Lat .), and of
Ragon (Orthod . Mac .), that the Council of the
Emperors of the East and West was the origin
of the Ancient and Accepted Rite, although it
has been denied, does not seem destitute of
truth . It is very certain, if the documentary
evidence is authentic, that the Constitutions
of 1672 were framed by this Council ; and it is
equally certain that under these Constitutions
a patent was granted to Stephen Morin,
through whom the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite was established in America .
Emunah . 	111tk . 	Sometimes spelled
Amunah, but not in accordance with the
Masoretic points . A significant word in the
high degrees signifying fidelity, especially in
fulfilling one's promises .
Encampment . 	All regular assemblies of
Knights Templar were formerly called En-
campments . 	They are now styled Com-
manderies in America, and Grand Encamp-
ments of the States are called Grand Com-
manderies. In England they are now called
"Preceptories ." (See Commandery and Com-
mandery, Grand .)
Encampment, General Grand . 	The
title, before the adoption of the Constitution
of 1856, of the Grand Encampment of the
United States .
Encampment, Grand . 	The Grand En-
cam pwent of the United States was instituted
on the 22d of June, 1816, in the city of New
York . It consists of a Grand Master, Deputy
Grand Master, and other Grand Officers who

242 	ENCYCLICAL
are similar to those of a Grand Commandery,
with Past Grand Officers and the representa-
tives of the various Grand Commanderies .
and of the subordinate Commanderies deriv-
ing their warrants immediately from it . It
exercises jurisdiction over all the Templars of
the United States, and meets triennially . The
term Encampment is borrowed from military
usage, and is very properly applied to the tem-
porary congregation at stated periods of the
army of Templars, who may be said to be, for
the time being, in camp .
Encyclical . Circular ; sent to many places
or persons . Encyclical letters, containing in-
formation, advice, or admonition, are some-
times issued by Grand Lodges or Grand
Masters to the Lodges and Masons of a
jurisdiction . The word is not in very com-
mon use ; but in 1848 the Grand Lodge of
South Carolina issued "an encyclical letter
of advice, of admonition, and of direction,"
to the subordinate Lodges under her juris-
diction ; and a similar letter was issued in
1865 by the Grand Master of Iowa .
En famWe . French, meaning as a family .
In French Lodges, during the reading of the
minutes, and sometimes when the Lodge is
engaged in the discussion of delicate matters
affecting only itself the Lodge is said to meet
"en famille,' at which time visitors are not
admitted .
England . The following is a brief resume
of the history of Freemasonry in England as
it has hitherto been written, and is now gen-
erally received by the Fraternity . It is but
right, however to say, that recent researches
have thrown doubts on the authenticity of
many of the statements-that the legend of
Prince Edwin has been doubted ; the estab-
lishment of a Grand Lodge at York in the be-
ginning of the eighteenth century denied ; and
the existence of anything but Operative
Masonry before 1717 controverted . These
questions are still in dispute ; but the labors
of Masonic antiquaries, through which many
old records and ancient constitutions are being
continually exhumed from the British Mu-
seum and from Lodge libraries, will eventually
enable us to settle upon the truth .
According to Anderson and Preston, the
first charter granted in England to the Ma-
sons, as a body, was bestowed by King Athel-
stan, in 926, upon the application of his
brother, Prince Edwin . "According)y," says
Anderson, quoting from the "Old Constitu-
tions" (Constitutions, 1738 p . 64), "Prince
Edwin summon'd all the 1 tree and Accepted
Masons in the Realm to meet him in a Con-
gregation at York, wlo came and form'd the
Grand Lodge under him as their Grand Mas-
ter, A .D . 926 .
"They brought with them many old Writ-
ings and Records of the Craft, some in Greek,
some in Latin some in French, and other Lan-
guages ; and from the Contents thereof, they
fram'd the Constitutions of the English
Lodges, and made a Law for Themselves, to
preserve and observe the same in all Time
coming, &c, &c, &o ."
ENGLAND
From this assembly at York, the rise of
Masonry in England is generally dated ; from
the statutes there enacted are derived the
English Masonic Constitutions ; and from the
place of meeting, the ritual of the English
Lodges is designated as the "Ancient York
Rite ."
E
For a long time the York Assembly exer-
cised the Masonic jurisdiction over all Eng-
land ; but in 1567 the Masons of the southern
part of the island elected Sir Thomas Gresham,
the celebrated merchant, their Grand Master,
according to Anderson . 	(Constitutions, 1738,
81 .) He was succeeded by the Earl of Effing-
ham,am, the Earl of Huntingdon, and by the il-
lustrious architect, Inigo Jones .
In the beginning of the eighteenth century,
Masonry in the south of England had fallen
into decay . The disturbances of the revolu-
tion, which placed William III . on the throne,
and the subsequent warmth of political feel-
ings which agitated the two parties of the
state, had given this peaceful society a wound
fatal to its success . But in 1716 "the few
Lodges at London finding themselves neg-
lected by Sir Christopher Wren, thought fit
to cement under a Grand Master as the Cen-
ter of Union and Harmony," and so four of the
London Lodges "met at the Apple-Tree Tav-
ern ; and having put into the chair the oldest
Master Mason, (now the Master of a Lodge,)
they constituted themselves a Grand Lodge,
pro tempore, in due form, and forthwith re-
vived the quarterly communication of the
officers of Lodges, (called the Grand Lodge,)
resolved to hold the annual assembly and
feast, and then to choose a Grand Master from
among themselves, till they should have the
honor of a noble brother at their head ." (An-
derson, Constitutions, 1738, p . 109 .)
Accordingly, on St . John the Baptist's Day,
1717, the annual assembly and feast were
held, and Mr . Anthony Sayer duly proposed
and elected Grand Master . The Grand Lodge
adopted, among its regulations, the following :
"That the privilege of assembling as Masons,
which bad hitherto been unlimited, should be
vested in certain Lodges or assemblies of
Masons convened in certain places ; and that
every Lodge to be hereafter convened, except
the four old Lodges at this time existing,
should be legally authorized to act by a war-
rant from the Grand Master for the time
being, granted to certain individuals by pe-
tition with the consent and approbation of
the C rand Lodge in communication ; and
that, without such warrant no Lodge should
be hereafter deemed regular or constitutional .
In compliment, however, to the four old
Lodges, the privileges which they had always
possessed under the old organization were
particularly reserved to them ; and it was
enacted that "no law, rule, or regulation, to
be hereafter made or passed in Grand Lodge,
should deprive them of such privilege, or en-
croach on any landmark which was at that
time established as the standard of Masonic
government ." (Preston, 	Illustrations, 	ed .
1792, pp . 248,249 .)

ENGLAND
The Grand Lodges of York and of London
kept up a friendly intercourse, and mutual
interchange of recognition, until the latter
body, in 1725, granted a warrant of consti-
tution to some Masons who had seceded from
the former . This unmasonic act was severely
reprobated by the York Grand Lodge, and
produced the first interruption to the harmony
that had long subsisted between them . It was,
however, followed some years after by another
unjustifiable act of interference . In 1735, the
Earl of Crawford, Grand Master of England,
constituted two Lodges within the jurisdic-
tion of the Grand Lodge of York, and granted,
without its consent, deputations for Lan-
cashire, 	Durham, 	and Northumberland .
"This circumstance, " says Preston (Illust .,
ed . 1792, p . 279), "the Grand Lodge at York
highly resented, and ever afterward viewed the
proceedings of the brethren in the south with a
jealous eye . All friendly intercourse ceased,
and the York Masons, from that moment,
considered their interests distinct from the
Masons under the Grand Lodge in London ."
Three years after, in 1738, several brethren
dissatisfied with the conduct of the Grand
Lodge of England, seceded from it, and held
unauthorized meetings for the purpose of in-
itiation . Taking advantage of the breach be-
tween the Grand Lodges of York and London,
they assumed the character of York Masons .
On the Grand Lodge's determination to put
strictly in execution the laws against such se-
ceders, they still further separated from its
jurisdiction, and assumed the appellation of
"Ancient York Masons ." 	They announced
that the ancient landmarks were alone pre-
served by them ; and, declaring that the reg-
ular Lodges had adopted new plans, and sanc-
tioned innovations, they branded them with
the name of "Modern Masons ." In 1739, they
established a new Grand Lodge in London,
under the name of the "Grand Lodge of An-
cient York Masons," and, persevering in the
measures they had adopted, held communi-
cations and appointed annual feasts . They
were soon afterward recognized by the Masons
of Scotland and Ireland, and were encouraged
and fostered by many of the nobility . 	The
two Grand Lges continued to exist, and to
act in opposition to each other, extending their
schisms into other countries, especially into
America, until the year 1813, when, under the
Grand Mastership of the Duke of Sussex,
they were united under the title of the United
Grand Lodge of England .
Such is the history of Freemasonry in Eng-
land as uninterruptedly believed by all Ma-
sons and Masonic writers for nearly a century
and a half . Recent researches have thrown
great doubts on its entire accuracy . Until the
year 1717, the details are either traditional, or
supported only by manuscripts whose authen-
ticity has not yet been satisfactorily proved .
Much of the history is uncertain- some of it,
especially as referring to York, is deemed apoc-
ryphal by Hughan and other laborious writers,
and Bro . Henry Sadler in his Masonic Facts
and Fictions has proved that the "Ancients"
ENGLAND 	2 43
were not really a schismatic body of seceders
from the Premier Grand Lodge of England,
but were Irish Masons settled in London, who
in 1751, established a body which they called
the " Grand Lodge of England according to the
Old Institutions," maintaining that they alone
preserved the ancient tenets and practises of
Masonry . (See Ancient Masons .) [E . L . H .]
England, Grand Lodges In . 	During one
period of the eighteenth century there existed
four Grand Lodges in England : 1 . "The G .
Lodge of England " located at London ; 2 .
"The G . Lodge ot 1 all England," located at
York ; 3 . "The G . Lodge of England accord-
ing to the Old Institutions" ; and, 4 . "The
G . Lodge of England south of the river Trent,"
which last two had their G . East at London .
The first Grand Lodge was formed in 1717 .
The second G . Lodge bears date 1725, and
emanated from that immemorial Masonic
Lodge that gave such reverence to the city of
York . The third was established in 1751 by
some Irish Masons settled in London . 	(See
Ancient Masons .) 	And the fourth, whose
existence lasted from 1779 to 1789, was insti-
tuted by the York Grand Lodge in compli-
ance with the request of members of the
Lodge of Antiquity, of London ; but its exist-
ence was ephemeral, in consequence of the
removal of the disturbing cause with the reg-
ular G . Lodge . 	Recently evidence has been
found pointing to the existence in London
from 1770 to 1775 of a fifth Grand Lodge,
formed by Scotch Masons, with some four or
five Lodges under its control . 	(Ars Quatuor
Coronatorum, xviii ., pp . 69-90 .) [E . L . H .]
All subordinate Lodges existing at present,
which had their being prior to the union, in
December, 1813, were subjects of either the
first or the third of the above designated four
G . Lodges, and known respectively as the
"Moderns" or the "Ancients," these titles,
however, having no recognized force as to the
relative antiquity of either .
England, The First Record of Grand
Lodge of . 	Bro . R . F . Gould (Hist . of F . M .,
ii ., 373) furnishes the valuable information
that the minutes of Grand Lodge commence
24th June, 1723, and those bearing such
date are signed by "John Theophilus Desagu-
liers, Deputy Grand Master ." They are en-
tered in a different handwriting, under date of
25th November, 1723, 19th February, 172k,
28th "Aprill 1724," and are not signed at foot .
On 24th June, 1724, the Earl of Dalkeith pre-
sided in Grand Lodge, and the following signa-
tures are appended to the recorded minutes :
"Dalkeith, G . M ., 1724 ."
"J . T. Desaguliers, G . M ."
"Fra Sorrell, Senr ., G . W ."
"John Senex, Junr ."
The minutes of 21st November, 1724, 17th
March, 20th May, 	24th June, and 27th
November, 1725, are unsigned . But to those
of 27th December, 1725, are appended the
signatures of
"Richmond & Lenox, G . M ., 1725,"
"M . ffolkes, D . G . M .,"
and two G, Wardens .

2 44 	ENGLET
Signatures are again wanting to the
ceedings of 28th February and 12th Decem r,
1726, but reappear under date of 27th "ffebry
1726" [27], viz . :
"Paisley, G . Mr ., 1726 "
and the next three succeeding officers .
The minutes of the following 10th May
(1727) were signed by "Inchiquin, G . M .,
1727," and the three officers next in rank .
The earliest minutes were not signed on con-
firmation at the next meeting but were veri-
fied by the four Grand Officers, or such of them
as took part in the proceedings recorded . In
consequence of the reelection of Dr . Desagu-
liers as Dep . G . M . the minutes say that "the
late Grand Master went away from the Hall
without any ceremony ." 	[E . L . H .]
Englet . 	A corruption of Euclid, found in
the Old Constitutions known as the Matthew
Cooke MS ., "wherefore ye forsayde maister
Englet ordeynet thei were passing of conying
schold be passing honoured ." (LI . 674-7 .)
Perhaps the copyist mistook a badly made old
English u for an n, and the original had Euglet,
which would be a nearer approximation to
Euclid .
Engrave . 	In French Lodges, buriner, to
engrave, is used instead of ecrire, to write .
The "engraved tablets" are the "written
records ."
Enlightened . 	This word, equivalent to
the Latin illuminatus, is frequently used to
designate a Freemason as one who has been
rescued from darkness, and received intellec-
tual light . 	Webster's definition shows its
appositeness : "Illuminated ; instructed ; in-
formed, furnished with clear views ." Many
old Latin diplomas commence with the head-
ing, "Omnibus illummatis," i . e ., "to all the
enlightened ."
Enlightenment, Shock of . 	See Shock of
Enlightenment .
Enoch . 	Though the Scriptures furnish
but a meager account of Enoch, the traditions
of Freemasonry closely connect him, by nu-
merous circumstances, with the early history of
the Institution . All, indeed, that we learn
from the Book of Genesis on the subject of his
life is, that he was the seventh of the patri-
archs ; the son of Jared, and the great-grand-
father of Noah ; that he was born in the year
of the world 622 ; that his life was one of emi-
nent virtue, so much so, that he is described
as "walking with God" ; and that in the year
987 his earthly pilgrimage was terminated
(as the commentators generally suppose), not
by death, but by a bodily translation to
heaven .
In the very commencement of our inquiries,
we shall find circumstances in the life of this
great patriarch that shadow forth, as it were,
something of that mysticism with which the
traditions of Masonry have connected him .
His name, in the Hebrew language, I1,
ienoch, signifies to initiate and to instruct, and
seems intended to express the fact that he was,
as Oliver remarks, the first to give a decisive
character to the rite of initiation and to add
to the practise of Divine worship the study and
ENOCH
application of human science . In confirmation
of this view, a writer in the Freemasons' Quar-
terly Review says, on this subject, that "it
seems probable -that Enoch introduced the
speculative principles into the Masonic creed
and that he originated its exclusive character,' ;
which theory must be taken, if it is accepted
at all, with very considerable modifications .
The years of his life may also be supposed to
contain a mystic meaning, for they amounted
to three hundred and sixty-five, being exactly
equal to a solar revolution . In all the ancient
rites this number has occupied a prominent
place, because it was the representative of the
annual course of that luminary which, as the
great fructifier of the earth, was the peculiar
object of divine worship .
Of the early history of Enoch, we know
nothing . It is, however probable that, like
the other descendants of the pious Seth, he
passed his pastoral life in the neighborhood
of Mount Moriah . From the other patriarchs
he differed only in this, that, enlightened by
the Divine knowledge which had been im-
parted to him, he instructed his contempora-
ries in the practise of those rites, and in the
study of those sciences, with which he had
himself become acquainted .
The Oriental writers abound in traditionary
evidence of the learning of the venerable pa-
triarch . One tradition states that he received
from God the gift of wisdom and knowledge,
and that God sent him thirty volumes from
heaven, filled with all the secrets of the most
mysterious sciences . The Babylonians sup-
posed him to have been intimately acquainted
with the nature of the stars ; and they attrib-
ute to him the invention of astrology . The
Rabbis maintain that he was taught by God
and Adam how to sacrifice, and how to wor-
ship the Deity aright . The Kabbalistic book of
Raziel says that he received the Divine mys-
teries from Adam, through the direct line of
the preceding patriarchs .
The Greek Christians supposed him to have
been identical with the first Egyptian Hermes,
who dwelt at Sais . They say he was the first
to give instruction on the celestial bodies ;
that he foretold the deluge that was to over-
whelm his descendants ; and that he built the
Pyramids, engraving thereon figures of arti-
ficial instruments and the elements of the sci-
ences, fearing lest the memory of man should
perish in that general destruction . Eupolemus,
a Grecian writer, makes him the same as Atlas,
and attributes to him, as the Pagans did to
that deity, the invention of astronomy .
Mr . Wait, in his Oriental Antiquities, quotes
a pMsage from Bar Hebraeus, a Jewish writer,
which asserts that Enoch was the first who in-
vented books and writing ; that he taught men
the art of building cities ; that he discovered
the knowledge of the Zodiac and the course of
the planets- and that he inculcated the wor-
ship of God by fasting, prayer, alms, votive
offerings, and tithes . Bar Hebraeue adds, that
he also appointed festivals for sacrifices to the
sun at the periods when that luminary en-
tered each of the zodiacal signs ; but this

ENOCH
statement, which would make him the author
of idolatry, is entirely inconsistent with all
that we know of his character, from both his-
tory and tradition, and arose, as Oliver sup-
poses, most probably from a blending of the
characters of Enos and Enoch .
In the study of the sciences, in teaching
them to his children and his contemporaries,
and in instituting the rites of initiation, Enoch
is supposed to have passed the years of his
peaceful, his pious, and his useful life, until
the crimes of mankind had increased to such
a height that, in the expressive words of Holy
Writ, "every imagination of the thoughts of
man's heart was only evil continually ." 	It
was then, according to a Masonic tradition,
that Enoch, disgusted with the wickedness
that surrounded him, and appalled at the
thought of its inevitable consequences, fled to
the solitude and secrecy of Mount Moriah,
and devoted himself to prayer and pious con-
templation . It was on that spot-then first
consecrated by this patriarchal hermitage,
and afterward to be made still more holy by
the sacrifices of Abraham, of David, and of
Solomon-that we are informed that the Shek-
:nah, or sacred presence, appeared to him, and
gave him those instructions which were to
preserve the wisdom of the antediluvians to
their posterity when the world, with the ex-
ception of but one family, should have been
destroyed by the forthcoming flood . The cir-
cumstances which occurred at that time are
recorded in a tradition which forms what has
been called the great Masonic "Legend of
Enoch," and which runs to this effect :
Enoch, being inspired by the Most High,
and in commemoration of a wonderful vision,
built a temple under ground, and dedicated it
to God . His son, Methuselah, constructed the
building ; although he was not acquainted
with his father's motives for the erection .
This temple consisted of nine brick vaults,
situated perpendicularly beneath each other,
and communicating by apertures left in the
arch of each vault .
Enoch then caused a triangular plate of gold
to be made, each side of which was a cubit
long ; he enriched it with the most precious
stones, and encrusted the plate upon a stone
of agate of the same form . On the plate he
engraved, in ineffable characters, the true
name of Deity, and, placing it on a cubical
pedestal of white marble, he deposited the
whole within the deepest arch .
When this subterranean building was com-
pleted, he made a door of stone, and at-
taching to it a ring of iron, by which it might
be occasionally raised, he placed it over the
opening of the uppermost arch, and so covered
it over that the aperture could not be discov-
ered . 	Enoch himself was permitted to enter
it but once a year ; and on the death of
Enoch, Methuselah, and Lamech, and the de-
struction of the world by the deluge, all knowl-
edge of this temple, and of the sacred treasure
which it contained, was lost until, in after
times, it was accidentally discovered by an-
other worthy of Freemasonry, who, like Enoch,
ENOCH 	245
was engaged in the erection of a temple on the
same spot .
The legend goes on to inform us that after
Enoch had completed the subterranean tem-
ple, fearing that the principles of those arts
and sciences which he had cultivated with so
much assiduity would be lost in that general
destruction of which he had received a pro-
phetic vision, he erected two pillars--the one
of marble, to withstand the influence of fire,
and the other of brass, to resist the action of
water . On the pillar of brass he engraved the
history of the creation, the principles of the
arts and sciences, and the doctrines of Specu-
lative Freemasonry as they were practised in
his times - and on the one of marble he in-
scribed characters in hieroglyphics, import-
ing that near the spot where they stood a
precious treasure was deposited in a subter-
ranean vault .
Josephus gives an account of these pillars
in the first book of his Antiquities . He ascribes
them to the children of Seth, which is by no
means a contradiction of the Masonic tradi-
tion, since Enoch was one of these children .
"That their inventions," says the historian,
"might not be lost before they were suffi-
ciently known, upon Adam's prediction that
the world was to be destroyed at one time by
the force of fire and at another time by the
violence and quantity of water, they made two
pillars-the one of brick, the other of stone ;
they inscribed their discoveries on them both,
that in case the pillar of brick should be de-
stroyed by the flood, the pillar of stone might
remain and exhibit those discoveries to man-
kind, and also inform them that there was an-
other pillar of brick erected by them . 	Now
this remains in the land of Siriad to this day ."
Enoch, having completed these labors,
called his descendants around him on Mount
Moriah, and having warned them in the most
solemn manner of the consequences of their
wickedness, exhorted them to forsake their
idolatries and return once more to the worship
of the true God. Masonic tradition informs us
that he then delivered up the government of
the Craft to his grandson, Lamech, and dis-
appeared from earth .
Enoch, Brother . 	(Frere Enoch .) 	Evi-
dently the nom de plume of a French writer
and the inventor of a Masonic rite . He pub-
lished at Liege, in 1773, two works : 1 . Le
Vrai Franc-Magon, in 276 pages ; 2 . Lettres
Magonniques pour servir de Supplement au
Vrai Franc-Magon . 	The design of the former
of these works was to give an account of the
origin and object of Freemasonry, a descrip-
tion of all the degrees, and an answer to the
objections urged against the Institution . The
historical theories of Frr re Enoch were ex-
ceedingly fanciful 	and wholly untenable .
Thus, he asserts that in the year 814, Louis the
Fair of France, being flattered by the fidelity
and devotion of the Operative Masons, or-
ganized them into a society of four degrees,
granting the Masters the privilege of wearing
swords in the Lodge-a custom still continued
in French Lodges-and, having been received

.246 	ENOCH
into the Order himself, accepted the Grand
Mastership on the festival of St . John the
Evangelist in the year 814 . Other equally ex-
travagant opinions make his book rather a
source of amusement than of instruction . His
definition of Freemasonry is however, good .
He says that it is "a holy and religious society
of men who are friends, which has for its foun-
dation discretion - for its object, the service of
God fidelity to the sovereign, and love of our
neighbor ; and for its doctrine, the erection of
an allegorical building dedicated to the vir-
tues, which it teaches with certain signs of
recognition ."
Enoch, Legend of . This legend is detailed
in a preceding article . It never formed any
part of the old system of Masonry, and was
first introduced from Talmudic and Rabbini-
cal sources into the high degrees, where, how-
ever, it is really to be viewed rather as symbol-
ical than as historical . Enoch himself is but
the symbol of initiation, and his legend is in-
tended symbolically to express the doctrine
that the true Word or Divine truth was pre-
served in the ancient initiations .
Enoch, Rite of . 	A Rite attempted to be
established at liege, in France, about the year
1773 . It consisted of four degrees, viz ., 1 .
Manouvre, or Apprentice, whose object was
friendship and benevolence . 2 . Ouvrier, or
Fellow-Craft, whose object was fidelity to the
Sovereign . 3 . Maitre, or Master, whose object
was submission to the Supreme Being . 4 .
Architects, whose object was the perfection of
all the virtues . The Rite never made much
progress .
Enochian Alphabet . 	One of the most
important alphabets, or ciphers, known to
historic Masons is the Enochian, in conse-
quence of the revelations made in that char-
A 	G 	N 	i : 71 11 n _17S
acter . Tradition says the Christian princes
were accompanied in their journey to Pales-
tine by Freemasons, who fought by their side
and who, when at the Holy City, discov
important MSS ., on which some of the his-
toric degrees were founded ; that some of
these MSS . were in Syriac and others in
Enochian characters ; and that on their re-
turn, when at Venice it was ascertained that
the characters were identical with those in the
Syriac column, spoken of by Josephus, and
with the oldest copies in which the Book of
Enoch was written and are of great antiquity .
The brethren in tie A . A . Scottish Rite are
largely instructed as to matters pertaining
hereto in the Thirteenth and Fourteenth
degrees .
We present an exact copy of the alphabet,
as may be found by comparison with that in
the Bodleian Library .
The name He No C H, in Hebrew, signifies
"taught," or, more properly, "dedicated ." In
the Koran Enoch is called "Edria," from dar-
EONS
asa, to study, which word, more liberally
translated means, "to read or to study with
attention . l ' (See Enoch .)
En Soph . 	VU ,1It . In the Kabbalistic
doctrines, the Divine Word, or Supreme
Creator, is called the En Soph or rather the
Or En Soph, the Infinite Intellectual Light .
The theory is that all things emanated from
this Primeval Light . (See Kabbala .)
Entered . When a candidate receives the
First Degree of Masonry he is said to be entered .
It is used in the sense of admitted, or intro-
duced ; a common as well as a Masonic em-
ployment of the word as when we say, "the
youth entered college" ; or, "the soldier en-
tered the service ."
Entered Apprentice . See Apprentice, En-
tered .
Entiek, John . An English clergyman,
born about 1703, who took much interest in
Freemasonry about the middle of the eight-
eenth century . He revised the third edition
of Anderson's Constitutions, by order of the
Grand Lodge, which was published in 1756 .
The next issue of the Book of Constitutions
(1767) also has his name on the title-page as
successor to Dr . Anderson, and is often at-
tributed to him, but it is described as "A new
edition . . . by a Committee appointed by the
Grand Lodge," and it does not appear that he
had anything to do with its preparation .
(Ars Quatuor Coronatorum, xxi ., p . 80 .) En-
tick was also the author of many Masonic ser-
mons, a few of which were published . Oliver
speaks of him as a man of grave and sober
habits, a good Master of his Lodge a fair dis-
ciplinarian and popular with the raft . But
Entick did not confine his literary labors to
Masonry . He was the author of a History
of the War which ended in 1763, in 5 vols ., 8vo ;
and a History of London,
in 4 vols ., 8vo . As an
orthoepist he had con-
siderable reputation
and published a Latin
and English Dictionary,
and an English Spelling Dictionary . 	He died
in 1773 . 	[E . L . H .]
Entombment . An impressive ceremony in
thedegreeof Perfect Master of theScottish Rite .
Entrance, Points of . See Points of En-
trance, Perfect .
Entrance, Shock of . See Shock of Entrance .
Entrusting . That portion of the ceremony
of initiation which consists in communicating
to the candidate the modes of recognition .
Envy . 	This meanest of vices has always
been discouraged in Masonry . The fifth of the
Old Charges says : "None shall discover envy
at the prosperity of a brother ." 	(Constitu-
tions, 1723, p . 53 .)
Eons . 	In the doctrine of Gnosticism, Di-
vine spirits occupying the intermediate state
which was supposed to exist between the Su-
preme Being and the Jehovah of the Jewish
theology, whom the Gnostics called only a
secondary deity . These spiritual beings were
indeed no more than abstractions, such as
Wisdom, Faith, Prudence, etc . They derived

EONS
their name from the Greek ai ,y, an age, in
reference to the long duration of their exist-
ence . Valentinius said there were but thirty
of them ; but Basilides reckons them as three
hundred and sixty-five, which certainly has an
allusion to the days of the solar year . In some
of the philosophical degrees, references are
made to theEons,whose introduction into them
is doubtless to be attributed to the connection
of Gnosticism with certain of the high degrees .
Eons, Rite of the . 	Ragon (Tuilleur Gen .,
p . 186) describes this Rite, as one full of beauti-
ful and learned instruction, but scarcely known,
and practised only in Asia, being founded on
the religious dogmas of Zoroaster . The exist-
ence of it as a genuine Rite is doubtful, for
Ragon's information is very meager .
Eostre . Easter, a name given to the pas-
chal festival in the spring of the year .
Ephod . 	The sacred vestment worn by the
high priest of the Jews over the tunic and outer
garment . It was without sleeves, and divided
below the arm-pits into two parts or halves
one falling before and the other behind, and
both reaching to the middle of the thighs .
They were joined above on the shoulders by
buckles and two large precious stones, on
which were inscribed the names of the twelve
tribes, six on each . The ephod was a distinc-
tive mark of the priesthood . 	It was of two
kinds, one of plain linen for the priests, and
another, richer and embroidered, for the high
priest, which was composed of blue, purple,
crimson, and fine linen . The robe worn by the
high prest in a Royal Arch Chapter is in-
tended to be a representation, but hardly can
be called an imitation, of the ephod .
Ephraimites . 	The descendants of Eph-
raim . They inhabited the center of Judea be-
tween the Mediterranean and the river Jordan .
The character given to them in the ritual of
the Fellow-Craft's Degree, of being "a stiff-
necked and rebellious people," coincides with
history, which describes them as haughty,
tenacious to a fault of their rights, and ever
ready to resist the pretensions of the other
tribes, and more especially that of Judah, of
which they were peculiarly jealous . The cir-
cumstance in their history which has been ap-
propriated for a symbolic purpose in the cere-
monies of the Second Degree of Masonry, may
be briefly related thus . The Ammonites, who
were the descendants of the younger son of
Lot, and inhabited a tract of country east of
the river Jordan, had been always engaged in
hostility against the Israelites . On the occa-
sion referred to, they had commenced a war
upon the pretext that the Israelites had de-
prived them of a portion of their territory .
Jephthah, having been called by the Israelites
to the head of their army defeated the Am-
monites, but had not called upon the Eph-
raimites to assist in the victory . Hence, that
high-spirited people were incensed, and more
especially as they had had no share in the rich
spoils obtained by Jephthah from the Am-
monites . They accordingly gave him battle,
but were defeated with great slaughter by the
Gileadites, or countrymen of Jephthah, with
EQUALITY 	247
whom alone he resisted their attack . As the
land of Gilead, the residence of Jephthah, was
on the west side of the Jordan, and as the
Ephraimites lived on the east side, in making
their invasion it was necessary that they
should cross the river, and after their defeat,
in attempting to effect a retreat to their own
country, they were compelled to recross the
river . 	But Jephthah, aware of this, had
plated forces at the different fords of the river,
who intercepted the Ephraimites, and de-
tected their nationality by a peculiar defect
in their pronunciation . For although the
Ephraimites did not speak a dialect different
from that of the other tribes, they had a dif-
ferent pronunciation of some words, and an in-
ability to pronounce the letter lU or SH, which
they pronounced as if it were 0 or S . Thus,
when called upon to say SHIBBOLETH,
the 	pronounced it, SIBBOLETH, "which
tri 	g defect," says the ritual, "proved them
to be enemies ." The test to a Hebrew was a
palpable one, for the two words have an en-
tirely different signification ; shibboleth mean-
ing an ear of corn, and sibboleth, a burden . The
biblical relation will be found in the twelfth
chapter of the Book of Judges .
Epoch . 	In chronology, a certain point of
time marked by some memorable event at
which the calculation of years begins . Differ-
ent peoples have different epochs or epochs :
Thus, the epoch of Christians is the birth of
Christ ; that of Jews, the creation of the world ;
and that of Mohammedans, the flight of their
prophet from Mecca . 	See Calendar .
Epopt . This was the name given to one
who had passed through the Great Mysteries,
and been permitted to behold what was con-
cealed from the mystee, who had only been in-
itiated into the Lesser . It signifies an eye-wit-
ness, and is derived from the Greek, d¢osdw,
to look over, to behold . The apopts repeated the
oath of secrecy which had been administered
to them on their initiation into the Lesser
Mysteries, and were then conducted into the
lighted interior of the sanctuary and permitted
to behold what the Greeks emphatically
termed "the sight," wrrollla . The epopts alone
were admitted to the sanctuary, for the mys-
tae were confined to the vestibule of the temple .
The epopts were, in fact, the Master Masons of
the Mysteries, while the mystee were the Ap-
prentices and Fellow-Crafts ; these words be-
mg used, of course, only in a comparative
sense .
Equality . 	Among the ancient iconolo-
gists, equality was symbolized by a female
figure holding in one hand a pair of scales
equipoised and in the other a nest of swal-
lows . The moderns have substituted a level
for the scales . And this is the Masonic idea .
In Masonry, the level is the symbol of that
equality which, as Higgins (Anac ., i ., 790),
says, is the very essence of Freemasonry .
"All, let their rank in life be what it may,
when in the Lodge are brothers-brethren
with the Father at their head . No person can
read the Evangelists and not see that this is
correctly Gospel Christianity ."

248 	EQUERRY
Equerry . 	An officer in some courts who
has the charge of horses . For some unknown
reason the title has been introduced into some
of the high degrees .
Eques . 	A Latin word signifying knight .
Every member of the Rite of Strict Observ-
ance, on attaining to the seventh or highest
degree, received a "characteristic name "
which was formed in Latin by the addition of a
noun in the ablative case, governed by the
preposition a or ab to the word Eques, as
"Eques a Serpents,' ; or Knight of the Serpent,
"Eques ab Aquila, ,, or Knight of the Eagle
etc ., and by this name he was ever afterward
known in the Order . Thus Bode, one of the
founders of the Rite, was recognized as
"Eques A6 Lilio Convallium," or 	Knight o
the Lily of the Valleys, and the Baron Hun y
another founder, as "Eques ab Ense," or
Knight of the Sword . 	A similar custom pre-
vailed among the Illuminati and in the Royal
Order of Scotland . Eques signified among the
Romans a knight, but in the Middle Ages the
knight was called miles ; although the Latin
word miles denoted only a soldier, yet, by the
usage of chivalry, it received the nobler sig-
nification . Indeed, Muratori says, on the au-
thority of an old inscription, that Eques was
inferior in dignity to Mites . 	(See Miles )
Eques Professus . Professed Knight . 	The
seventh and last degree of the Rite of Strict
Observance . Added, it is said, to the original
series by Von Hund .
Equilateral Triangle . 	(See Triangle .)
Equity . 	The equipoised balance is an an-
cient symbol of equity . On the medals, this
virtue is represented by a female holding in
the right hand a balance, and in the left a
measuring wand, to indicate that she gives to
each one his just measure . In the Ancient
and Accepted Rite, the Thirty-first Degree,
or Grand Inspector Inquisitor Commander
is illustrative of the virtue of equity ; and
hence the balance is a prominent symbol of
that degree, as it is also of the Sixteenth De-
gree, or Princes of Jerusalem, because ac-
cording to the old rituals, they were chiefs
in Masonry, and administered justice to the
inferior degrees .
Equivocation . The words of the cove-
nant of Masonry require that it should be
made without evasion, equivocation, or mental
reservation . 	This is exactly in accordance
with the law of ethics in relation to promises
made . And it properly applies in this case,
because the covenant, as it is called, is simply a
promise, or series of promises, made by the
candidate to the Fraternity-to the brother-
hood into whose association he is about to be
admitted . In making a promise, an evasion is
the eluding or avoiding the terms of the prom-
ise ; and this is done, or attempted to be done,
by equivocation, which is by giving to the
words used a secret signification different
from that which they were intendW to convey
by him who imposed the promise, so as to mis-
lead, or by a mental reservation which is a con-
cealment or withholding in the mind of the
promiser of certain conditions under which he
ERICA
makes it, which conditions are not known to
the one to whom the promise is made . All of
this is in direct violation of the law of veracity .
The doctrine of the Jesuits is very different .
Suarez, one of their most distinguished casu-
ists, lays it down as good law, that if any one
makes a promise or contract, be may secretly
understand that he does not sincerely promise,
or that he promises without any intention of
fulfilling the promise . This is not the rule of
Masonry, which requires that the words of
the covenant be taken in the patent sense
which they were intended by the ordinary use
of language to convey . 	It adheres to the
true rule of ethics, which is, as Paley says,
that a promise is binding in the sense in
which the promiser supposed the promisee to
receive it .
Eranol . 	Among the ancient Greeks there
were friendly societies, whose object was, like
the modern Masonic Lodges, to relieve the
distresses of their necessitous members . They
were permanently organized, and had a com-
mon fund by the voluntary contributions of
the members . If a member was reduced to
poverty or was in temporary distress for
money, he applied to the eranos, and, if worthy,
received the necessary assistance, which was,
however, advanced rather as a loan than a
gift, and the amount was to be returned when
the recipient was in better circumstances . In
the days of the Roman Empire these friendly
societies were frequent among the Greek cit-
ies, and were looked on with suspicion by the
emperors, as tending to political combinations .
Smith says (Diet . Gr . and Rom . Ant . s . v .
Evani) that the Anglo-Saxon gilds, or fra-
ternities for mutual aid, resembled the eranoi
of the Greeks . In their spirit, these Grecian
confraternities partook more of the Masonic
character, as charitable associations, than of
the modern friendly societies, where relief is
based on a system of mutual insurance ; for
the assistance was given only to cases of actual
need, and did not depend on any calculation of
natural contingencies .
Erica . 	The Egyptians selected the erica
as a sacred plant . The origin of the consecra-
tion of this plant will be peculiarly interesting
to the Masonic student . There was a legend
in the mysteries of Osiris, which related that
Isis, when in search of the body of her mur-
dered husband, discovered it interred at the
brow of a hill near which an erica grew ; and
hence, after the recovery of the body and the
resurrection of the god, when she established
the mysteries to commemorate her loss and her
recovery, she adopted the erica as a sacred
plant, in memory of its having pointed out the
spot where the mangled remains of Osiris were
concealed .
Ragon (Cours des Initiations, p . 151), thus
alludes to this mystical event : "Isis found the
body of Osiris in the neighborhood of Biblos,
and near a tall plant called the erica . O
pressed with grief, she seated herself on t)emargin of a fountain whose waters issued
from a rock . This rock is the small hill men-
tioned in the ritual ; the erica has been re-

ERLKING
placed by the acacia, and the grief of Isis has
been changed for that of the Fellow-Crafts ."
The lexicographers define JpefKn as "the
heath or heather ' ; but it is really, as Plutarch
asserts, the tamarisk tree ; and Schwenk (Die
Mythologie der Semiten, p . 248) says that
Phylee, so renowned among the ancients as
one of the burial-places of Osiris, and among
the moderns for its wealth of architectural
remains, contains monuments in which the
grave of Osiris is overshadowed by the tamar-
isk .
ErUdng . 	A name found in one of the sa-
cred sagas of the Scandinavian mythology, en-
titled Sir Olaf and the Erlking's Daughter, and
applied to the mischievous goblin haunting
the black forest of Thuringia .
Ernest and Falk . Ernst and Falk . Ge-
sprache fur Freimaurer, i . e ., "Ernest and
Falk . Conversations for Freemasons " is the
title of a German work written by ootthold
Ephraim Leasing, and first published in 1778 .
Ernest is an inquirer, and Falk a Freemason,
who gives to his interlocutor a very philosoph-
ical idea of the character, aims, and objects of
the Institution . The work has been faithfully
translated by Bro . Kenneth R . H . Mackenzie,
F .S .A ., in the London Freemasons' Quarterly
Magazine, in 1854, and continued and fin-
ished, so far as the author had completed it, in
the London Freemason in 1872 . Findel says of
this work, that it "is one of the best things that
has ever been written upon Freemasonry ."
(Hilt . of . F . M ., p . 373 .)
Erwin von Steinbach . A distinguished
German who was born as his name imports,
at Steinbach, near Biflii, about the middle of
the thirteenth century . He was the master of
the works at the Cathedral of Strasburg, the
tower of which he commenced in 1275 . 	He
finished the tower and doorway before his
death, which was in 1318 . He was at the head
of the German Fraternity of Stonemasons,
who were the precursors of the modern Free-
masons . 	(See Strasburg .)
Esoteric Masonry . That secret portion
of Masonry which is known only to the in-
itiates as distinguished from exoteric Masonry,
or monitorial, which is accessible to all who
choose to read the manuals and published
works of the Order . The words are from the
Greek, JowrepuKbs, internal, and ifwrKepucbs,
external, and were first used by Pythagoras,
whose philosophy was divided into the exo-
teric, or that taught to all, and the esoteric, or
that taught to a select few ; and thus his dis-
ciples were divided into two classes, according
to the degree of initiation to which the 	had
attained, as being either fully admitted into
the society, and invested with all the knowl-
edge that the Master could communicate or
as merely postulants, enjoying only the public
instructions of the school, and awaiting the
gradual reception of further knowledge . This
double mode of instruction was borrowed by
Pythagoras from the Egyptian priests, whose
theology was of two kinds-the one exoteric,
and addressed to the people in general ; the
other esoteric, and confined to a select num-
ESSENES 	249
ber of the priests and to those wno possessed,
or were to possess, the regal power . And the
mystical nature of this concealed doctrine was
expressed iii their symbolic language by the
images of sphinxes placed at the entrance of
their temples . Two centuries later, Aristotle
adopted the system of Pythagoras, and, in
the Lyceum at Athens, delivered in the morn-
ing to his select disciples his subtle and con-
cealed doctrines concerning God Nature, and
Life, and in the evening lectured on more ele-
mentary subjects to a promiscuous audience .
These different lectures he called his Morning
and his Evening Walk .
Esperance . 	Under the name of "Chev-
aliers et Dames de 1'Esperance" was founded
in France and subsequently an androgynous
order in (lermany . 	It is said to have been
instituted by Louis XV ., at the request of the
Marquis de Chatelet, and was active about
1750 . The Lodge "Irene," at Hamburg, was
founded in 1757 .
Essenes . 	Lawrie, in his History of Free-
masonry, in replying to the objection, that if
the Fraternity of Freemasons had flourished
during the reign of Solomon, it would have
existed in Judea in after ages, attempts to
meet the argument by, showing that there
did exist, after the building of the Temple, an
association of men resembling Freemasons in
the nature, ceremonies, and object of their
institution (p . 33 .) The association to which
'he here alludes is that of the Essenes, whom
he subsequently describes as an ancient Fra-
ternity originating from an association of	architects
who were connected with the building
of Solomon's Temple .
Lawrie evidently seeks to connect his-
torically the Essenes with the Freemasons,
and to impress his readers with the id 	tit of
the two Institutions . 	I am not prepare to
go so far; but there is such a similarity be-
tween the two, and such remarkable coinci-
dences in many of their usages, as to render
this Jewish sect an interesting study to every
Freemason, to whom therefore some account
of the usages and doctrines of this holy broth-
erhood will not, perhaps, be unacceptable .
At the time of the advent of Jesus Christ,
there were three religious sects in Judea-
the Pharisees, the Sadducees, and the Es-
senes ; and to one of these sects every Jew
was compelled to unite himself . 	The Savior
has been 	supposed by many writers to
have been an Essene, because, while repeat-
edly denouncing the errors of the two other
sects, he has nowhere uttered a word of cen-
sure against the Essenes ; and because, also,
many of the precepts of the New Testament
are to be found among the laws of this sect .
In ancient authors, such as Jose phus, Philo
Porphyry, Eusebius, and Pliny, who have had
occasion to refer to the subject, the notices of
this singular sect have been so brief and un-
satisfactory, that modern writers have found
great difficulty in properly understanding the
true character of Essenism . And yet our an-
tiquaries, never weary of the task of investi-
gation, have at length, within a recent period,

250 	ESSENES 	ESSENES
succeeded in eliciting from the collation of all I of this sect he is supposed, as has been
that has been previously written on the sub-
ject, very correct details of the doctrines and
practises of the Essenes, 	Of these writers
none have been more successful than the labor-
ious German critics Frankel and Rappaport .
Their investigations have been ably and thor-
oughly condensed by Dr . Christian D . Gins-
burg, whose essay on The Essenes, their History
and Doctrines (Lond ., 1864), has supplied the
most material facts contained in the present
article .
It is impossible to ascertain the precise date
of the development of Essenism as a distinct
organization . 	The old writers are so exag-
gerated in their statements, that they are
worth nothing as historical authorities . Philo
says, for instance, that Moses himself insti-
tuted the order, and Josephus that it existed
ever since the ancient time of the Fathers ;
while Pliny asserts, with mythical liberality,
that, it has continued for thousands of ages .
Dr . Ginsburg thinks that Essenism was a
gradual development of the prevalent relig-
ious notions out of Judaism, a theory which
Dr . Dollinger repudiates . 	But Rappaport,
who was a learned Jew, thoroughly conversant
with the Talmud and other Hebrew writings,
and who is hence called b ay Ginsburg "the
corypheus of Jewish critics, ' asserts that the
Essenes were not a distinct sect, in the strict
sense of the word, but simply an order of Juda-
ism, and that there never was a rupture be-
tween them and the rest of the Jewish com-
munity . This theory is sustained by Frankel,
a learned German who maintains that the
Essenes were simply an intensification of the
Pharisaic sect, and that they were the same as
the Chasidim, whom Lawrie calls the Kassi-
deans, and of whom he speaks as the guardians
of King Solomon's Temple . If this view be
the correct one, and there is no good reason to
doubt it, then there will be another feature
of resemblance and coincidence between the
Freemasons and the Essenes ; for, as the latter
was not a religious sect, but merely a develop-
ment of Judaism, an order of Jews entertain-
ing no heterodox opinions, but simply carrying
out the religious dogmas of their faith with an
unusual strictness of observance, so are the
Freemasons not a religious sect, but simply a
development of the religious idea of the age .
The difference, however, between Freema-
sonry and Essenism lies in the spirit of uni-
versal tolerance prominent in the one and
absent in the other . 	Freemasonry is Chris-
tian as to its membership in general, but rec-
ognizing and tolerating in its bosom all other
religions : Essenism, on 	the contrary, was
exclusively and intensely Jewish in its mem-
bership, its usages, and its doctrines .
The Essenes axe first mentioned by Josephus
as existing in the days of Jonathan the Mac-
cabwan, one hundred and sixty-six years be-
fore Christ . The Jewish historian repeatedly
speaks of them at subsequent periods ; and
there is no doubt that they constituted one of
the three sects which divided the Jewish re-
ligious world at the advent of our Savior, and
already said, to have been a member .
On this subject, Ginsburg says : "Jesus,
who in all things conformed to the Jewish
law, and who was holy, harmless, undefiled,
and separate from sinners, would, therefore •
naturally associate himself with that order of
Judaism which was most congenial to his holy
nature . Moreover, the fact that Christ, with
the exception of once, was not heard of in
public till his thirtieth year, implying that he
lived in seclusion with this Fraternity 	and
that, though he frequently 	rebukes the
Scribes, Pharisees and Sadducees, he never
denounced the Essenes, strongly confirms
this decision ." 	But he admits that Christ
neither adopted nor preached their extreme
doctrines of asceticism .
After the establishment of Christianity,
the Essenes fade out of notice, and it has
been supposed that they were among the earli-
est converts to the new faith . 	Indeed, De
Quincey rather paradoxically asserts that
they were a disguised portion of the early
Christians .
The etymology of the word has not been
settled . Yet, among the contending opinions,
the preferable one seems to be that it is de-
rived from 	the Hebrew 	CHASID,-holy,
pious,--which connects the Essenes with the
Chasidim, a sect which preceded them, and
of whom Lawrie says (quoting from Scali-
ger), that they were "an order of the KxionTs
OF THE TEMPLE OF JERUSALEM, who bound
themselves to adorn the porches of that mag-
nificent structure, and to preserve it from in-
jury and decay ." 	(Hist . of F . M ., p . 38 .)
The Essenes were so strict in the observance
of the Mosaic laws of purity, that they were
compelled for the purpose of avoiding con-
tamination, to withdraw altogether from the
rest of the Jewish nation and to form a separ
rate community, which thus became a broth-
erhood . The same scruples which led them to
withdraw from their less strict Jewish breth-
ren induced most of them to abstain from
marriage, and hence the unavoidable deple-
tion of their membership by death could only
be repaired by the initiation of converts .
They had a common treasury in which was
deposited whatever anyone of them possessed,
and from this the wants of the whole com-
munity were supplied by stewards app ointed
by the brotherhood, so that they had every-
thing in common . Hence there was no dis-
tinction among them of rich and poor, or
masters and servants ; but the only grada-
tion of rank which they recognized was de=
rived from the degrees or orders into which
the members were divided, and which de-
pended on holiness alone . They lived peace-
ably with all men, reprobated slavery and
war, and would not even manufacture any
warlike instruments . They were governed by
a president, who was elected by the whole
community ; and members who had violated
their rules were after due trial, excommuni-
cated or expelled .
As they held no communication outside of

ESSENES
their own fraternity, they had to raise their
own supplies r and some were engaged in tilling,
some in tending flocks, others in making cloth-
ing, and others in pre ing food . They got
up before sunrise, and, after singing a hymn
of praise for the return of light, which they did
with their faces turned to the east, each one
repaired to his appropriate task . At the fifth
hour, or eleven in the forenoon, the morning
labor terminated . The brethren then again
assembled, and after a lustration in cold water,
they put on white garments and proceeded to
the refectory, where they pal took of the com-
mon meal, which was always of 	the most
frugal character . A mysterious silence was ob-
served during this meal, which, to some ex-
tent, had the character of a sacrament . The
feast being ended, and the priest having re-
turned thanks, the brethren withdrew and put
off their white garments, resumed their work-
ing-clothes and their several 	employments
until evening, when they again assembled as
before, to partake of a common meal .
They observed the Sabbath with more than
Judaic strictness, regarding even the removal
of a vessel as a desecration of the holy day .
On that day, each took his seat in the syna-
gogue in becoming attire; and, as they had no
ordained ministers, any one that liked read
out of the Scriptures, and another, experi-
enced in spiritual matters, expounded the pas-
sages that had been read . 	The distinctive
ordinances of the brotherhood and the mys-
teries connected with the Tetragrammaton and
the angelic worlds were the prominent topics
of Sabbatical instruction . In particular, did
they pay attention to the mysteries connected
with the Tetragrammaton, or the Sbem ham-
phorash, the expository name, and the other
names of God which play so important a part
in the mystical theosophy of the Jewish Kab-
balists, a great deal of which has descended
to the Freemasonry of our own days .
Josephus describes them as being distin-
guished for their brotherly love, and for their
charity in helping the needy, and showing
mercy . He says that they are just dispensers
of their anger, curbers of their passions, rep-
resentatives of fidelity, ministers of peace, and
every word with them is of more force than an
oath . 	They avoid taking an oath, and re-
gard it as worse than perjury ; for they say
that he who is not believed without calling on
God to witness, is already condemned of per-
jury . He also states that they studied with
great assiduity the writings of the ancients on
distempers and their remedies, alluding, as it
is supposed, to the magical works imputed by
the Talmudists to Solomon .
It has already been observed that, in con-
sequence of the celibacy of the Essenes, it
was found necessary to recruit their ranks by
the introduction of converts, who were ad-
mitted by a solemn form of initiation . The
candidate, or aspirant, was required to pass
through a novitiate of two stages, which ex-
tended over three years, before he was ad-
mitted to a full participation in the privi-
leges of the Order . Upon entering the first
ESSENES 	251
stage, which lasted for twelve months, the
novice cast all hispoa sessions into the com-
mon treasury . He then received a copy of the
regulations of the brotherhood, and was pre-
sented with a spade, and apron, and a white
robe . 	The spade was employed to bury ex-
crement, the apron was used at the daily lus-
trations, and the white robe was worn as a
symbol of purity . During all this period the
aspirant was considered as being outside the
order, and, although required to observe some
of the ascetic rules of the society, he was
not admitted to the common meal . At the end
of the probationary year, the aspirant, if ap-
proved, was advanced to the second stage
which lasted two years, and was then called
an approacher . 	During this period he was
permitted to unite with the brethren in their
lustrations, but was not admitted to the com-
mon meal, nor to hold any office . Should this
second stage of probation be passed with ap-
proval, the approacher became an associate
and was admitted into full membership, and
at length allowed to partake of the common
meal .
There was, a third rank or degree called
the disciple or companion, in which there was
a still closer union . Upon admission to this
highest grade, the candidate was bound by a
solemn oath to love God, to be just to all men,
to practise charity, maintain truth, and to
conceal the secrets of the society and the
mysteries connected with the Tetragrammaton
and the other names of God .
These three sections or degrees, of Aspirant,
Associate, and Companion, were subdivided
into four orders or ranks, distinguished from
each other by different degrees of holiness ;
and so marked were these distinctions, that if
one belonging to a higher degree of purity
touched one of a lower order, he immediately
became impure, and could only regain his
purity by a series of lustrations .
The earnestness and determination of these
Essenes, says Ginsburg, to advance to the
highest state of holiness were seen in their
self-denying and godly lit r e ; and it may fairly
be questioned whether any religious system
has ever produced such a community of saints .
Their absolute confidence in God and resig-
nation to the dealings of Providence ; their
uniformly holy and unselfish life ; their un-
bounded love of virtue and utter contempt for
worldly fame, riches, and pleasures ; their
industry, temperance, modesty, and simplicity
of life ; their contentment of mind and cheer-
fulness of temper ; their love of order, and
abhorrence of even the semblance of false-
hood ; their benevolence and philanthropy ;
their love for the brethren, and their following
peace with all men ; their hatred of slavery
and war ; their tender regard for children, and
reverence and anxious care for the aged ;
their attendance on the sick, and readiness to
relieve the distressed ; 	their humility and
magnanimity ; their firmness of character and
power to subdue their passions ; their heroic
endurance under the most agonizing suffer-
ings for righteousness' sake ; and their cheer-

252 	ESSENES
fully looking forward to death, as releasing
their immortal souls from the bonds of the
body, to be forever in a state of bliss with their
Creator,-have hardly found a parallel in the
history of mankind .
Lawrie, in his History of Freemasonry, gives,
on the authority of Pictet, of Basnage, and of
Philo, the following condensed recapitulation
of what has been said in the preceding pages of
the usages of the Essenes :
"When a candidate was proposed for ad-
mission, the strictest scrutiny was made into
his character . If his life had hitherto been
exemplary, and if he appeared capable of
curbing his passions and regulating his con-
duct, according to the virtuous, though aus-
tere maxims of their order, he was presented,
at the expiration of his novitiate, with a white
garment, as an emblem of the regularity of his
conduct, and the purity of his heart . A sol-
emn oath was then administered to him, that
he would never divulge the mysteries of the
Order ; that he would make no innovations on
the doctrines of the society ; and that he would
continue in that honorable course of piety
and virtue which he had begun to pursue .
Like Freemasons, they instructed the yo ur~
member in the knowledge which they derived
from their ancestors . They admitted no
women into their order . They had particular
signs for recognizing each other, which have a
strong resemblance to those of Freemasons .
They had colleges or places of retirement
where they resorted to practise their rites and
settle the affairs of the society ; and, after the
performance of these duties, they assembled
in a large hall, where an entertainment was
provided for them by the president, or master
of the college, who alloted a certain quantity
of provisions to every individual . They abol-
ished all distinctions of rank ; and if prefer-
ence was ever given, it was given to piety,
liberality, and virtue . Treasurers were ap-
pointed in every town, to supply the wants of
indigent strap rs ." (pp . 34, 35 .)
Lawrie thin that this remarkable coinci-
dence between the chief features of the Ma-
sonic and Essenian fraternities can be ac-
counted for only by referring them to the same
origin ; and, to sustain this view, he attempts
to trace them to the Kasideans, or Assideans,
more properly the Chasidim, "an association
of architects who were connected with the
building of Solomon's Temple ." But, aside
from the consideration that there is no evi-
dence that the Chasidim were a body of archi-
tects-for they were really a sect of Jewish
u	p 	'tans, who held the Temple in especial	u	p
honor-we cannot conclude, from a mere
coincidence of doctrines and usages, that the
origin of the Essenes and the Freemasons is
identical . Such a course of reasoning would
place the Pythagoreans in the same cate-
gory : a theory that has been rejected by the
best modern critics .
The truth appears-to be that the Essenes,
the School of Pythagoras, and the Freemasons,
derive their similarity from that spirit of
brotherhood which has prevailed in all ages of
ETHICS
the civilized world, the inherent principles of
which, as the results of any fraternity,-all
the members of which are engaged in the same
pursuit and assenting to the same religious
creed,--are brotherly love, charity, and that
secrecy which gives them their exclusiveness .
And hence, between all fraternities, ancient
and modern, these "remarkable coincidences"
will be found .
Esther . 	The Third Degree of the Amer-
ican Adoptive Rite of the Eastern Star . It is
also called "the wife's degree," and in its cere-
monies comprises the history of Esther the
wife and queen of Ahasuerus, King of Persia,
as related in the Book of Esther .
Eternal Life . 	The doctrine of eternal life
is taught in the Master's Degree, as it was in
the Ancient Mysteries of all nations . (See
Immortality of the Soul .)
Eternity . 	The ancient symbol of eternity
was a serpent in the form of a circle, the tail
being placed in the mouth . The simple circle,
the figure which has neither beginning nor
end, but returns continually into itself, was
also a symbol of eternity .
Ethanim or Tishri . 	The seventh sa-
cred month, or the first month of the Hebrew
civil year, commencing with the new moon in
September .
Ethics of Freemasonry . There is a Greek
word, fOos (ethos), which signifies custom
from which Aristotle derives another word
Joos, (8thos),l which means ethics ; because, as
he says, from the custom of doing good acts
arises the habit of moral virtue . Ethics, then,
is the science of morals teaching the theory
and practise of all that is good in relation to
God and to man, to the state and the indi-
vidual ; it is, in short, to use the emphatic ex-
pression of a German writer, "the science of
the good ." Ethics being thus engaged in the
inculcation of moral duties, there must be a
standard of these duties an authoritative
ground-principle on whic i they depend, a
doctrine that requires their performance,
making certain acts just those that ought to be
done, and which, therefore, are duties, and
that forbid the performance of others which
are, therefore, offenses . Ethics, then, as a
science, is divisible into several species, var~
ing in name and character, according to the
foundation on which it is built .
Thus we have the Ethics of Theology, which
is founded on that science which teaches the na-
ture and attributes of God ; and, as this forms
a part of all religious systems, every religion,
whether it be Christianity or Judaism, Brah-
manism or Buddhism, or any other form of
recognized worship, has within its bosom a
science of theological ethics which teaches,
according to the lights of that religion, the
duties which are incumbent on man from his
relations to a Supreme Being . And then we
have the Ethics of Christianity, which being
founded on the Scriptures, recognized by
Christians as the revealed will of God is
nothing other than theological ethics applied
to and limited by Christianity .
Then, again, we have the Ethics of Philoso-

ETHICS
phy, which is altogether speculative, and de-
rived from and founded on man's speculations
concerning God and himself . There might be
a sect of philosophers who denied the existence
of a Superintending Providence ; but it would
still have a science of ethics referring to the re-
lations of man to man, although that system
would be without strength, because it would
have no Divine sanction for its enforcement .
And, lastly, we have the Ethics of Freema-
sonry, whose character combines those of the
three others . The first and second systems in
the series above enumerated are founded on
religious dogmas ; the third on philosophical
speculations . Now as Freemasonry claims to
be a religion, in so liar as it is founded on a rec-
ognition of the relations of man and God, and
a philosophy in so far as it is engaged in spec-
ulations on the nature of man, as an immortal,
social, and responsible being, the ethics of
Freemasonry will be both religious and phil-
osophical .
The symbolism of Masonry, which is its
peculiar mode of instruction, inculcates all the
duties which we owe to God as being his chil-
dren, and to men as being their brethren ."There is," says Dr . Oliver, "scarcely a point
of duty or morality which man has been pre-
sumed to owe to God, his neighbor, or himself,
under the Patriarchal, the Mosaic, or the
Christian dispensation, which, in the construc-
tion of our symbolical system, has been left
untouched ." Hence, he says, that these sym-
bols all unite to form "a code of moral and
theological philosophy" ; the term of which
expression would have been better if he had
called it a "code of philosophical and theo-
logical ethics ."
At a very early period of his initiation, the
Mason is instructed that he owes a threefold
duty, to God, his neighbor, and himself,-
and the inculcation of these duties constitutes
the ethics of Freemasonry .
Now, the Tetragrammaton, the letter G,
and many other symbols of a like character,
impressively inculcate the lesson that there is
a God in whom "we live, and move, and have
our being," and of whom the apostle, quoting
from the Greek poet, tells us that "we are his
offapring ." To him then as the Universal
Father, does the ethics of eemasonry teach
us that we owe the duty of loving and obedient
children .
And, then, the vast extent of the Lodge,
making the whole world the common home of
all Masons and the temple in which we all
labor for the building up of our bodies as a
spiritual house, are significant symbols, which
teach us that we are not only the children of
the Father, but fellow-workers, laboring to-
gether in the same task and owing a common
servitude to God as the Grand Architect of the
universe-the Algabil or Master Builder of the
world and all that is therein ; and thus these
symbols of a joint labor, for a joint purpose,
tell us that there is a brotherhood of man : to
that brotherhood does the ethics of Freema-
sonry teach us that we owe the duty of fra-
ernal kindness in all its manifold phases .
EUCLID 	253
And so we find that the ethics of Free-
masonry is really founded on the two great
ideas of the universal fatherhood of God and
the universal brotherhood of man .
Ethiopia . A tract of country to the south
of Egypt, and watered by the upper Nile .
The reference to Ethiopia, in the Master's
Degree of the American Rite, as a place of
attempted escape for certain criminals, is not
to be found in the English or French rituals,
and I am inclined to think that this addition
to the Hiramic legend is an American inter-
polation . The selection of Ethiopia, by the
ritualist, as a place of refuge, seems to be
rather inappropriate when we consider what
must have been the character of that country
in the age of Solomon .
Etymology . For the etymology of the
word Mason, see Mason, Derivation of the
Word .
Euclid . In the year of the world 3650,
which was 646 years after the building of King
Solomon's Temple, Euclid, the celebrated
geometrician, was born . His name has been
always associated with the history of Free-
masonry, and in the reign of Ptolemy Soter,
the Order is said to have greatly flourished in
Egypt, under his auspices . The well known
forty-seventh problem of his first book, al-
though not discovered by him, but long be-
fore by Pythagoras, has been adopted as a
symbol in the Third Degree .
Euclid, Legend of . All the old manu-
script Constitutions contain the well known"legend of Euclid," whose name is presented
to us as the "Worthy Clerk Euclid" in every
conceivable variety of corrupted form . The
legend as given in the Dowland MS . (q . v .) is
in the following words :"Moreover, when Abraham and Sara his
wife went into Egypt there he taught the
Seaven Scyences to the Egiptians ; and he had
a worthy Scoller that height Ewcjyde, and he
learned right well, and was a master of all the
vij Sciences liberall . And in his dayes it be-
fell that the lord and the estates of the realme
had soe many sonns that they had gotten,
some by their wifes and some by other ladyes
of the realm ; for that land is a hott land and a
plentious of generation . And they had not
competent livelode to find with their children ;
wherefore they made much care . And then the
King of the land made a great Counsell and a
parliament, to witt, how they might find their
children honestly as gentlemen ; And they
could find no manner of good way . And then
they did crye through all the realme, if their
were any man that could informe them that
he shoud come to them, and he should lie soe
rewarded for his travail, that he should hold
him pleased ."After that this cry was made, then came
this worthy clarke Ewclyde, and said to the
King and to all his great lords : `If yee will,
take me your children to governe, and to
teach them one of the Seaven Scyences, where-
with they may live honestly as gentlemen
should, under a condicion, that yee will grant
me and them a commission that I may have

254 	EULOGY
power to rule them after the manner that the
science ought to be ruled .' And that the King
and all his counsell granted to him anone, and
sealed their commission . And then this worthy
Doctor tooke to him these lords' sons, and
taught them the scyence of Geometrie in prac-
tice, for to work in stones all manner of worthy
worke that belongeth to buildinge churches,
temples, castells, towres, and mannors, and all
other manner of buildings ; and he gave them
a charge on this manner :"
Here follow the usual "charges" of a Free-
mason as given in all the old Constitutions ;
and then the legend concludes with these
words :
"And thus was the science grounded there ;
and that worthy Mr . Ewclyde gave it the
name of Geometric . And now it is called
through all this land Masonrye ." (Hughan's
Old Charges, ed . 1872, p . 26 .)
This legend, considered historically, is
certainly very absurd, and the anachronism
which makes Euclid the contemporary of Abra-
ham adds, if possible, to the absurdity . But
interpreted as all Masonic legends should be
interpreted, as merely intended to convey a
Masonic truth in symbolic language, it loses
its absurdity, and becomes invested with an
importance that we should not otherwise at-
tach to it .
Euclid is here very appropriately used as a
type of geometry, that science of which he
was so eminent a teacher ; and the myth or
legend then symbolizes the fact that there was
in Egypt a close connection between that sci-
ence and the great moral and religious sys-
tem which was among the Egyptians, as well
as other ancient nations, what Freemasonry
is at the present day-a secret institution,
established for the inculcation of the same prin-
ciples, and inculcating them in the same sym-
bolic manner . So interpreted, this legend cor-
responds to all the developments of Egyptian
history, which teach us how close a connection
existed in that country between the religious
and scientific systems . Thus Kenrick (Anc .
Eg ., i ., 383) tells us that "when we read of
foreigners [in Egypt] being obliged to submit
to painful and tedious ceremonies of initiation,
it was not that they might learn the secret
meaning of the rites of Osiris or Isis but that
they might partake of the knowledge of as-
tronomy, physic, geometry, . and theology ."
The legend of Euclid belongs to that class
of narration which, in another work, Dr .
Mackey calls "The Mythical Symbols of
Freemasonry ."
Eulogy. 	Masonry delights to do honor to
the memory of departed brethren by the deliv-
ery of eulogies of their worth and merit, which
are either delivered at the time of their burial,
or at some future period . The eulogy forms
the most important part of the ceremonies of
a Sorrow Lodge . But the language of the eulo-
gist should be restrained within certain lim-
its ; while the veil of charity should be thrown
over the frailties of the deceased, the praise of
his virtues should not be expressed with es-
aggerated adulation .
EVEILLES
Eumolpus . 	A king of Eleusis, who
founded, about the year 1374 B . c ., the Mys-
teries of Eleusis . His descendants, the Eumoi-
pidae, presided for twelve hundred years over
these Mysteries as Hierophants .
Eunuch . 	It is usual, in the most correct
rituals of the third degree, especially to name
eunuchs as being incapable of initiation . In
none of the old Constitutions and Charges is
this class of persons alluded to by name, al-
though of course they are comprehended in
the general prohibition against making per-
sons who have any blemish or maim . However,
in the Charges which were published by Dr .
Anderson, in his second edition (Constitur
tions, 1738, p . 144), they are included in the
list of prohibited candidates . It is probable
from this that at that time it was usual to
name them in the point of OB . referred to ;
and this presumption derives strength from
the fact that Dermott, in copying his Charges
from those of Anderson's second edition,
added a note complaining of the "moderns";
for having disregarded this ancient law, in at
least one instance . (Ahiman Rezon, ed . 1778 .)
The question is, however, not worth discus-
sion, except as a matter of ritual history
since the legal principle is already determined
that eunuchs cannot be initiated because
they are not perfect men, "having no maim or
defect in their bodies ."
Euphrates . 	One of the largest and most
celebrated rivers of Asia . Rising in the moun-
tains of Armenia and flowing into the Persian
gulf, it necessarily lies between Jerusalem and
Babylon . In the ritual of the higher degrees
it is referred to as the stream over which the
Knights of the East won a passage by their
arms in returning from Babylon to Jerusalem .
Euresis . 	From the Greek, euperis, 	a
discovery . 	That part of the initiation in the
Ancient Mysteries which represented the
finding of the body of the god or hero whose
death and resurrection was the subject of the
initiation . The curesis has been adopted in
Freemasonry, and forms an essential portion
of the ritual of the Third Degree .
Europe . 	An appellation at times given to
the west end of the Lodge .
Eva . 	The acclamation used in the French
Rite of Adoption .
Evangellcon . The gospel belonging to the
so-called "Ordre du Temple" at Paris, and
professedly a relic of the real Templars . Some
believe in its antiquity ; but others, from ex-
ternal and internal evidence, fix its date sub-
sequent to the fifteenth century . It is
apparently a garbled version of St . John's Gos-
pel . It is sometimes confounded with the
"Leviticon" ; but, though bound up in the
same printed volume, it is entirely distinct .
Evangelist . (See St . John the Evangelist .)
Evates . 	The second degree in the Druid-
ical system . Of the three degrees the first
was the Bards, the second Evates or Proph-
ets, and the third Druids or Sanctified Author-
ities .
Eveilles, Secte des . 	(Sect of the Enlight-
ened .) According to Thory (ActaLat ., i ., 312),

EVERGETEN
a society presumed to be a branch of Weis-
haupt's Illumines that existed in Italy .
Evergeten, Bung der . 	(From the Greek
dvepy4oms, a benefactor .) A secret order after
the manner of the Illuminati . It was founded
in Silesia about 1792, by a certain Zerboni of
Glogau, Lieut . von Lei p zinger, the merchant
Contessa, Herr von Reibnitz, and five others ;
that Fessler worked in it ; that it used Ma-
sonic forms . Some of the members were im-
prisoned at Breslau in 1796, and about 1801 the
society became defunct . (Kenning's Cycle
pxdia of F . M . s .v .)
Evergreen . An evergreen plant is a sym-
bol of the immortality of the soul . The an-
cients, therefore, as well as the moderns,
planted evergreens at the heads of graves .
Freemasons wear evergreens at the funerals of
their brethren, and cast them into the grave .
The acacia is the plant which should be used
on these occasions, but where it cannot be ob-
tained, some other evergreen plant, especially
the cedar, is used as a substitute . (See
Acacia .)
Evora, Knights of . 	There is a very an-
cient cit y in Portugal of 1200 population .
Quintus Sertorius took it 80 B .C . The Roman
antiquities are unrivaled . 	The aqueduct
erected by Sertorius has at one end a mar-
velous architectural tower rising high above
the city, perfect in its condition as when built,
70 B .C . 	In 1147, King Alfonso I ., of Portugal,
instituted the Order of the New Militia in
consequence of the prowess exhibited by the
troops in the siege of Lisbon against the Moors .
When they conquered Evora in 1166, the king
~ y decree changed their name to Knights of
Evora .
Exalted . 	A candidate is said to be exalted
when he receives the Degree of Holy Royal
Arch, the seventh in American Masonry . Ex-
alted means elevated or lifted up, and is applic-
able both to a peculiar ceremony of the degree,
and to the fact that this degree, in the Rite in
which it is practised, constitutes the summit of
ancient Masonry .
The rising of the sun of spring from his
wintry sleep into the glory of the vernal equi-
nox was called by the old sun-worshipers his
"exaltation" ; and the Fathers of the Church
afterward applied the same term to the res-
urrection of Christ . St . Athanasius says that
by the expression, "God hath exalted him,"
St . Paul meant the resurrection . Exaltation,
therefore, technically means a rising from a
lower to a higher sphere, and in Royal Arch
Masonry may be supposed to refer to the being
lifted up out of the first temple of this life
into the second temple of the future life . The
candidate is raised in the Master's De gr ee, he
is exalted in the Royal Arch . In both the sym-
bolic idea is the same .
Examination of Candidates . 	It is an
almost universal rule of the modern Con-
stitutions of Masonry, that an examination
upon the subjects which had been taught
in the preceding degree shall be required of
every brother who is desirous of receiving a
higher degree ; and it is directed that th,a
EXAMINATION 	255
examination shall take place in an open Lodge
of the degree upon which the examination is
made, that all the members present may have
an opportunity of judging from actual inspec-
tion of the proficiency and fitness of the candi-
date for the advancement to which he aspires .
The necessity of an adequate comprehension
of the mysteries of one degree, before any
attempt is made to acquire a higher one, seems
to have been duly appreciated from the earli-
est times ; and hence the 13th Article of the
Regius MS . requires that if a Master has an
Apprentice he shall teach him fully, that he
may know his Craft ably wherever he may
go . (vv ., 239-244 .) But there is no evidence
that the system of examining candidates as
to their proficiency, before their advancement,
is other than a modern improvement, and first
adopted not very earl y in the present century .
Examination of the Ballot-Box . 	This is
sometimes done during the ballot for a candi-
date, by presentin g the box first to the Junior
Warden, then to the Senior, and lastly to the
Master each of whom proclaims the result as
"clear" or "foul." This order is ado p ted so
that the declaration of the inferior officer, as
to the state of the ballots, may be confirmed
and substantiated by his superior .
Examination of Visitors . 	The due ex-
amination of strangers who claim the right to
visit, should be entrusted only to the most
skilful and prudent brethren of the Lodge .
And the examining committee should never
forget, that no man applying for admission is
to be considered as a Mason, however strong
may be his recommendations, until b y unde-
niable evidence he has proved himself to be
such .
All the necessary forms and antecedent
cautions should be observed . Inquiries should
be made as to the time and place of initiation,
as a preliminary step the Tiler's OB, of course,
never being omitted . Then remember the
good old rule of "commencing at the begin-
ning ." 	Let everything proceed in regular
course, not varying in the slightest degree
from the order in which it is to be supposed
that the information sought was originally
received . Whatever be the suspicions of im-
p osture, let no expression of those suspicions
be made until the final decree for rejection is
uttered . And let that decree be uttered in
general terms, such as, "I am not satisfied,"
or "I do not recognize you," and not in more
specific language, such as, "You did not an-
swer this inquiry," or "You are ignorant on
that point ." The candidate for examination is
only entitled to know that he has not com-
plied generally with the requisitions of his
examiner . To descend to particulars is alwa
improper and often dangerous . Above
never ask what the lawyers call "leadin g ques-
tions," which include in themselves the an-
swers, nor in any manner aid the memory or
prompt the forgetfulness of the party exam-
ined, by the slightest hints . If he has it in him
it will come out without assistance, and if he
has it not he is clearly entitled to no aid . The
Mason w io is so unmindful of his obligations

256 	EXCALIBAR
as to have forgotten the instructions he has
received, must pay the penalty of his care-
lessness, and be deprived of his contemplated
visit to that society whose secret modes of rec-
ognition he has so little valued as not to have
treasured them in his memory .
Lastly, never should an unjustifiable deli-
cacy weaken the rigor of these rules . Re-
member, that for the wisest and most evident
reasons, the merciful maxim of the law, which
says that it is better that ninety nine guilty
men should escape than that one innocent man
should be punished, is with us reversed and
that in Masonry it is better that ninety and nine
true men should be turned away from the door o
a Lodge than that one cowan should be adm -
Excallbar . 	King Arthur's famous sword,
which he unfixed from a miraculous stone
after the unavailing efforts of 200 of his most
puissant barons . 	Hence, Arthur was pro-
claimed king . 	When dying, Arthur com-
manded a servant to throw the sword into a
neighboring lake, but the servant twice eluded
this command . When he finally complied, a
hand and arm arose from the water, seized the
sword by the hilt, waved it thrice, then sink-
ing into the lake, was seen no more?
Excavations . 	Excavations beneath Jeru-
salem have for some years past been in progress,
under the direction of the English society, which
controls the " PalestineExploration Fund," and
many important discoveries, especially inter-
esting to Masons, have been made .
Excellent . 	A title conferred on the Grand
Captain of the Host and Grand Principal So-
journer of a Grand Chapter, and on the King
and Scribe of a subordinate Chapter of Royal
Arch Masons in America .
Excellent Masons . 	Dr . Oliver 	(Hilt .
Landm ., i ., 420-8) gives a tradition that at the
building of Solomon's Temple there were nine
Lodges of Excellent Masons having nine in
each, which were distributed as follows : Six
Lodges, or fifty-four Excellent Masons in the
quarries ; three Lodges, or twenty-seven Ex-
cellent Masons in the forest of Lebanon ;
eight Lodges, or seventy-two Excellent Ma-
sons engaged in preparing the materials ; and
nine Lodges, or eighty-one Excellent Masons
subsequently employed in building the Tem-
ple . Of this tradition there is not the slight-
est support in authentic history, and it must
have been invented altogether for a symbolic
purpose, in reference perhaps to the mystical
numbers which it details .
Excellent Master . 	A degree which, with
Super-Excellent Master was atone time given
as preparatory to the Loyal Arch . They now
form part of what is known as Cryptic Ma-
sonry . Most . 	(See Most Excellent .)
Excellent, Right . 	(See R' ht Excellent .)
Excellent, Super . 	(See Super-Excellent
Masons .)
Exclusion . 	In England the Grand Lodge
alone can expel from the rights and privileges
of Masonry . But a subordinate Lodge may
exclude a member after giving him due notice
of the charge preferred against him, and of the
EXCLUSNENESS
time appointed for its consideration . The
name of any one so excluded, and the cause of
his exclusion must be sent to the Grand
Secretary and to the Provincial or District
Grand Secretary if the Lodge be in a Province
or District . No Mason excluded is eligible to
any other Lodge until the Lodge to which he
applies has been made acquainted with his
exclusion, and the cause, so that the brethren
may exercise their discretion as to his admis-
sion . 	(Constitutions, Rules 210 and 212 .) In
America, the word used as synonymous with
exclusion is striking from the roll, except that
the latter punishment is only inflicted for non-
payment of Lodge dues .
Exclusiveness of Masonry . 	The exclus-
iveness of Masonic benevolence is a charge
that has frequently been made against the
Order ; and it is said that the charity of which
it boasts is always conferred on its own mem-
bers in preference to strangers . It cannot be
denied that Masons, simply as Masons have
ever been more constant and more profuse in
their charities to their own brethren than to the
rest of the world ; that in apportioning the alms
which God has given them to bestow, they have
first looked for the poor in their own home be-
fore they sought those who were abroad ; and
that their hearts have felt more deeply for the
destitution of a Brother than a stranger .
The principle that governs the Institution of
Freemasonry, in the distribution of its char-
ities, and the exercise of all the friendly af-
fections, is that which was laid down by St .
Paul for the government of the infant church
at Galatia- "As we have therefore oppor-
tunity let us do good unto all men, es eciall~y
unto diem who are of the household of faith . '
(Galatians vi . 10 .)
This sentiment of preference for those of
one's own faith, thus sanctioned by apostolic
authority, is the dictate of human nature, and
the words of Scripture find their echo in every
heart . 	"Blood," says the Spanish proverb,
"is thicker than water," and the claims of
kindred, of friends and comrades to our affec-
tions, must not be weighed in the same scale
with those of the stranger, who has no stronger
tie to bind him to our sympathies, than that
of a common origin from the founder of our
race . All associations of men act on this prin-
ci~e . It is acknowledged in the church,
which follows with strict obedience the in'unc-
tion of the apostle ; and in the relief it affords
to the distressed, in the comforts and con-
solations which it imparts to the afflicted, and
in the rights and privileges which it bestows
upon its own members, distinguishes between
those who have no community with it of relig-
ious belief, and those who, by worshiping at
the same altar, have established the higher
claim of being of the household of faith .
It is recognized by all other societies, which
however they may, from time to time, and
under the pressure of peculiar circumstances,
extend temporary aid to accidental cases of dis-
tress, carefully preserve their own peculiar
funds for the relief of those who, by their elec-
tion as members, by their subscription to a

EXCUSE
written constitution, and by the regular pay-
ment of arrears, have assumed the relationship
which St . Paul defines as being of the house-
hold of faith .
It is recognized by governments, which,
however liberally they may frame their laws,
so that every burden may bear equally on all,
and each may enjoy the same civil and religious
rights, never fail, in the privileges which they
bestow, to discriminate between the alien and
foreigner, whosevisit is but temporary orwhose
allegiance is elsewhere, and their own citizens .
This principle of preference is universally
diffused, and it is
reference
it is so . It is well
that those who are nearer should be dearer
and that a similitude of blood, an identity ot;
interest, or a community of purpose, should
give additional strength to the ordinary ties
that bind man to man . Man, in the weakness
of his nature, requires this security . By his
own unaided efforts, he cannot accomplish
the objects of his life nor supply the necessary
wants of his existence . In this state of utter
helplessness, God "has wisely and mercifully
provided a remedy by implanting in the
human breast a love of union and an ardent
desire for society . Guided by this instinct of
preservation, man eagerly seeks the commun-
ion of man, and the weakness of the individual
is compensated by the strength of association .
It is to this consciousness of mutual de-
pendence, that nations are indebted for their
existence, and governments for their durabil-
ity . And under the impulse of the same
instinct of society, brotherhoods and associa-
tions are formed, whose members, concentrat-
ing their efforts for the attainment of one com-
mon object, bind themselves by voluntary
ties of love and friendship, more powerful
than those which arise from the ordinary sen-
timents and feelings of human nature .
Excuse . 	Many Lodges in the last century
and in the beginning of this inflicted pecuni-
ary fines for non-attendance at Lodge meet-
ings, and of course excuses were then required
to avoid the penalty . But this has now grown
out of use . Masonry being considered a vol-
untary institution, fines for absence are not
inflicted, and excuses are therefore not now re-
quired . The infliction of a fine would, it is
supPosed, detract from the solemnity of the
obligation which makes attendance a duty .
The old Constitutions, 	however, required
excuses for non-attendance, although no pen-
alty was prescribed for a violation of the rule .
Thus, in the Matthew Cooke MS . (fifteenth
century), it is said, "that every master of
this art should be warned to come to his con-
gregation that they come duly, but if (unless)
they may be excused by some manner of
cause . (lines 740-4 .) And in the Regius MS .
it is written :
"That every mayster, that is a Mason,
Must ben at the generals congregacyon,
so that he hyt resonebly y-tolde
Where that the semble shall be holde ;
And to that semble he must nede gon,
But he have a resenabul skwsacyon ."
vv . 107-112 .
EXPOSITIONS 	257
Executive Powers of a Grand Lodge .
(See Grand Lodge .)
Exegetical and Philanthropical Society .
According to Thory (Acts Lat ., i ., 312),
founded at Stockholm in 1787 . It united
Magnetism to Swedenborgianism ; it was at
first secret, but when it became known it was
killed by ridicule .
Exemplification of the Work . This term
is of frequent use in American Masonry .
When a lecturer or teacher performs the cere-
monies of a degree for instruction, using gen-
erally one of the Masons present as a substi-
tute for the candidate, he is said "to exemplify
the work ." It is done for instruction, or to
enable the members of the Grand or subordi-
nate Lodge to determine on the character of
the ritual that is taught by the exemplifier .
Exoteric . 	Public, not secret . (See Eso-
teric .)
Exodus . 	The date of the Exodus has been
determined by the excavations recently made
at Tel el-Maskhi ta . This is the name of large
mounds near Tel el-Keber excavated by M .
Naville for the Egyptian 'Exploration Fund,
wherein he found inscriptions showing that
they represent the ancient city of Pithom, or
Succoth, the "treasure-cities" (Ex . i . 11), and
that Ramses II . was the founder . This was
the Pharaoh of the oppression . The walls of
the treasure-chambers were about six hun-
dred and fifty feet square and twenty-two feet
thick . From Pithom, or Succoth, where the
Israelites were at work, they started on their
Exodus toward Etham (Khetam), then to Pi-
hachiroth (Ex . xiv . 2), and so on north and
east . The Exodus took place under Menep-
tah II ., who ascended the throne B .c . 1325,
and reigned but a short period . It was along
the isthmus that the Egyptian army perished
pursuing the retreating Israelites as they
crossed between Lake Serbonis and the waters
of the Mediterranean, amidst the "sea of
papyrus reeds," the ydm stlph, that has often
proved disastrous to single or congregated
travelers . 	(See S . Birch, LL .D ., in Ancient
History from the Monuments, Brugsch-Bey's
lecture 17th September, 1874 ; but more par-
ticularfy the late discoveries above referred
to, in Fresh Lights, etc ., by A . H . Sayce .
Expert . 	In Lodges of the French Rite
there are two officers called First and Second
Experts, whose duty it is to assist the Master
of Ceremonies in the initiation of a candidate .
In Lodges of Perfection of the Scottish Rite,
there are similar officers who are known as the
Senior and Junior Expert .
Expert, Perfect . 	Conferred in three
grades, and cited in Fustier's collection .
(Thory, Acta Let . i ., 312 .)
Expert, Sublime English . 	Mentioned in
Fustier's collection . (Thory, ActaLat ., i ., 312 .)
Expositions . 	Very early after the revival
of Masonry, in the beginning of the eighteenth
century, pretended expositions of the ritual of
Masonry began to be published . The following
catalogue comprises the most notorious of
these pseudo-revelations . The leading titles
only are given .

258 	EXPOSITIONS
1 . A Mason's Examination, which appeared
in The Flying Post for April 11-13, 1723 .
(Gould's Hist . of F . M ., iii ., 487 .)
2 . The Grand Mystery of Freemasons Dis-
covered . 	London, 1724 . (Gould's Hiss . 	of
F . M ., iii ., 475 .)
3 . The Secret History of the Freemasonry .
London, 1724 .
4 . Masonry Dissected, by Samuel Prichard .
London, 1730 . There were several subse-
quent editions, and a French translation in
1737, and a German one in 1736 .
5 . The Secrets of Masonry made known to
all men, by S . P . 	[Samuel Prichard .) 	Lon-
don, 1737 .
6 . The Mystery of Masonry . London, 1737 .
7 . Masonry further dissected . London, 1738 .
8 . Le Secret des Franc-Masons, par M .
l'Abbd Perau . Geneva, 1742 .
9 . Catechisme des Franc-Masons, par Leon-
ard Gabanon (Louis Travenol) . Paris, 1745 .
He published several editions, varying the
titles .
10 . L'Ordre de Franc-Masons trahi et le
Secret des Mopses revelE . Amsterdam, 1745 .
Many subsequent editions, and a German
and a Dutch translation .
11 . Le Mason demarque . 	1751 .
12 . A Master Key to Freemasonry . 	1760 .
13 . The Three Distinct Knocks . 	1760 .
14 . Jachin and Boar . 	1762 .
15 . Hiram ; or, The Grand Master Key .
London,1764 .
16 . Shibboleth, or Every Man a Freemason .
1765 .
17 . Solomon in all his Glory . 	1766 .
18 . Mahhabone, or the Grand Lodge Door
Open'd . 	1766 .
19 . Tubal Kain . 	1767 .
20 . The Freemason 	Stripped Naked, by
Charles Warren . London, 1769 .
21 . Receuil precieux de la Magonnerie Adon-
hiramite, par Louis Guillemain de St . Victor .
Paris, 1781 . This work was not written
with an unfriendly purpose, and many editions
of it were published .
22 . The Master Key, by I. Browne . Lon-
don, 1794 . Scarcely an exposition, since the
cipher in which it is printed renders it a sealed
book to all who do not possess the key .
23 . A Masonic Treatise, "than Elucidation
on the Religious and Moral Beauties of Free-
masonry, etc ., by W . Finch . London, 1801 .
24 . Manual of Freemasonry, by Richard
Carlisle . London, 1825 .
25 . Illustrations of Masonry, by William
Morgan . The first edition is without date or
place, but it was probably printed at Batavia,
N . Y . . in 1828 .
26 . Light on Masonry, by David Bernard .
Utica, N . Y ., 1829 .
27 . A Ritual of Freemasonry, by Avery
New York, 1852 .
There have been several other American
expositions, but the compilers have only been
servile copyists of Morgan, Bernard, and
Allyn . It has been, and continues to be,
simply the pouring out of one vial into an-
other .
EXPULSION
The expositions which abound in the French,
German, and other continental languages, are
not attacks upon Freemasonry, but are writ-
ten often under authority, for the use of the
Fraternity . The usages of continental Ma-
sonry permit a freedom of publication that
would scarcely be tolerated by the English or
American Fraternity . 	[E . L . H .]
Expulsion . 	Expulsion is, of all Masonic
penalties, the highest that can be inflicted on
a member of the Order, and hence it has been
often called a . Masonic death . It deprives
the expelled of all the rights and privileges
that he ever enjoyed, not only as a member of
the particular Lodge from which he has been
ejected, but also of those which were inherent
in him as a member of the Fraternity at large .
He is at once as completely divested of his
Masonic character as though he had never
been admitted, so far as regards his rights,
while his duties and obligations remain as
firm as ever, it being impossible for any
human power to cancel them . He can no
longer demand the aid of his brethren, nor re-
quire from them the performance of any of
the duties to which he was formerly entitled,
nor visit any Lodge, nor unite in any of the
public or private ceremonies of the Order .
He is considered as being without the pale,
and it would be criminal in any brother, aware
of his expulsion, to hold communication with
him on Masonic subjects .
The only proper tribunal to impose this
heavy punishment is a Grand Lodge . A sub-
ordinate Lodge tries its delinquent member,
and if guilty declares him expelled . But the
sentence is of no force until the Grand Lodge,
under whose jurisdiction it is working, has
confirmed it . And it is optional with the
Grand Lodge to do so, or, as is frequently done,
to reverse the decision and reinstate the
brother . Some of the Lodges in this country
claim the right to expel independently of the
action of the Grand Lodge, but the claim is
not valid . The very fact that an expulsion is a
penalty, affecting the general relations of the
punished brother with the whole Fraternity,
proves that its exercise never could with
propriety be entrusted to a body so circum-
scribed in its authority as a subordinate
Lodge . Besides, the general practise of the
Fraternity is against it . The English Consti-
tutions vest the power to expel exclusively in
the Grand Lodge . A Private Lodge has only
the power to exclude an offending member
from its own meetings .
All Masons, whether members of Lodges or
not, are subject to the infliction of this punish-
ment when found to merit it . Resignation or
withdrawal from the Order does not cancel a
Mason's obligations, nor exempt him from
that wholesome control which the Order ex-
ercises over the moral conduct of its members .
The fact that a Mason, not a member of any
particular Lodge, who has been guilty of im-
moral or unmasonic conduct, can be tried and
punished by any Lodge within whose juris-
diction he may be residing, is a point on which
there is no doubt .

EXTENDED
Immoral conduct, such as would subject a
candidate for admission to rejection, should
be the only offense visited with expulsion . As
the punishment is general, affecting the rela-
tion of the one expelled with the whole Fra-
ternity, it should not be lightly imposed for the
violation of any Masonic act not general in its
character . The commission of a grossly im-
moral act is a violation of the contract entered
into between each Mason and his Order . If
sanctioned by silence or impunity, it would
bring discredit on the Institution, and tend
to impair its usefulness . A Mason who is a
bad man is to the Fraternity what a mortified
limb is to the body, and should be treated
with the same mode of cure, he should be cut
off, lest his example spread, and disease be
propagated through the constitution .
Expulsion from one of what is called the
higher degrees of Masonry, such as a Chapter
or an Encampment, does not affect the rela-
tions of the expelled party to Blue Masonry .
A Chapter of Royal Arch Masons is not and
cannot be recognized as a Masonic body by a
Lodge of Master Masons by any of the modes
of recognition known to Masonry . The acts,
therefore, of a Chapter cannot be recognized
by a Master Mason's Lodge any more than the
acts of a literary or charitable society wholly
unconnected with the Order . Besides, by the
present organization of Freemasonry, Grand
Lodges are the supreme Masonic tribunals .
If, therefore, expulsion from a Chapter of
Royal Arch Masons involved expulsion from
a Blue Lodge, the right of the Grand Lodge to
hear and determine causes, and to regulate the
internal concerns of the Institution, would be
interfered with by another body beyond its
control . But the converse of this proposition
does not hold good . Expulsion from a Blue
Lodge involves expulsion from all the higher
degrees ; because, as they are composed of
Blue Masons, the members could not of right
sit and hold communications on Masonic
sub'ects with one who was an expelled Mason .
Mended Wings of the Cherubim . An
expression used in the ceremonies of Royal
Master, the Tenth Degree of the American
Rite, and intended to teach symbolically that
he who comes to ask and to seek Divine Truth
symbolized by the True Word, should begin
by placing himself under the protection of
that Divine Power who alone is Truth, and
from whom alone Truth can be obtained . Of
him the cherubim with extended wings in the
Holy of Holies were a type .
Extent of the Lodge . 	The extent of a
Mason's Lodge is said to be in height from
the earth to the highest heavens ; in depth,
from the surface to the center ; in length,
from east to west ; and in breadth, from north
to south . The expression is a symbolic one,
and is intended to teach the extensive bound-
aries of Masonry and the coterminal extension
of Masonic charity . 	(See Form of the Lodge .)
Exterior . 	The name of the First Degree
of the "Rite d'Orient," according to the
nomenclature of M . Fustier . 	(Thory, Ada
Lat ., i ., 312 .)
EZRA 	259
External Qualifications . 	The external
qualifications of candidates for initiation are
those which refer to their outward fitness,
based upon moral and religious character, the
frame of body, the constitution of the mind,
and social position . Hence they are divided
into Moral, Religious, Physical, Mental, and
Political, for which see Qualifications of Can-
didates . 	The expression in the ritual, that "it
is the internal and not the external qualifi-
cations that recommend a man to be made a
Mason," it is evident, from the context, refers
entirely to "worldly wealth and honors,"
which, of course, are not to be taken "into
consideration in inquiring into the qualifi-
cations of a candidate ."
Extinct Lodge . 	A Lodge is said to be
extinct which has ceased to exist and work,
which is no longer on the registry of the Grand
Lodge, and whose Charter had been revoked
for misuse or forfeited for nonuse .
Extra Communication . 	The same as
Special Communication . 	(See Communica-
tion .)
Extraneous . 	Not regularly made ; clan-
destine . The word is now obsolete in this sig-
nification, but was so used by the Grand
Lodge of England in a motion adopted March
31, 1735, and reported by Anderson in his 1738
edition of the Constitutions, p . 182 . "No ex-
traneous brothers, that is, not regularly made,
but clandestinely, 	shall be ever quali-
fied to partake of the Mason's general char-
ity ."
Extrusion . Used in the Constitution of
the Royal Order of Scotland for expulsion .
"If a brother shall be convicted of crime by
any Court of Justice, such brother shall be
permanently extruded ." (Sect . 29 .) 	Not in
use elsewhere as a Masonic term .
Eye . 	(See All-Seeing Eye .)
Ezekiel, Temple of . 	(See Temple of
Ezekiel .)
Ezel . In Hebrew, ' 7N 1 	4, eben hahezel,
the stone of the departure, viz ., a mile-stone .
An old testimonial stone in the neighborhood
of Saul's residence, the scene of the parting of
David and Jonathan, and the mark beyond
which the falling of Jonathan's arrow indi-
cated danger . (1 Sam . xx. 19 .) Hence, a word
adopted in the honorary deFee called the
"Mason's wife and daughter .'
Ezra . 	There are two persons named Ezra
who are recorded in Scripture . 1 . Ezra, a
leading priest among the first colonists who
came up to Jerusalem with Zerubbabel, and
who is mentioned by Nehemiah (xii . i) ; and,
2, Ezra, the celebrated Jewish scribe and re-
storer of the law, who visited Jerusalem forty-
two years after the second Temple had been
completed . Calmet, however, says that this
second Ezra had visited Jerusalem previously
in company with Zerubbabel . Some explana-
tion of this kind is necessary to reconcile an
otherwise apparent inconsistency in the Eng-
lish system of the Royal Arch, which- makes
two of its officers represent Ezra and Nehe
miah under the title of scribes, while at the
same time it mares the time of the ritual refer

260 	EZRA
to the laying of the foundation of the second
Temple, and yet places in the scene, as a
prominent actor, the later Ezra, who did not
go up to Jerusalem until more than forty
years after the completion of the building . It
is more probable that the Ezra who is said in
the ritual to have wrought with Joshua, Hag-
and Zerubbabel, was intended by the orig-
inal framer of the ritual to refer to the first
Ezra, who is recorded by Nehemiah as having
been present ; and that the change was made
in the reference without due consideration,
by some succeeding ritualist, whose mistake
has been carelessly perpetuated by those who
followed him . Dr . Oliver (Hilt . Landmarks,
F . The sixth letter in the English and
Latin alphabets, and the same as the Greek
digamma or the ¢ or ph, and the vau of the
Hebrew, which has a numerical value of six .
F . . In French Masonic documents the
abbreviation of Frbre, or Brother . 	FF . . is
the abbreviation of Frbres, or Brethren .
Fabre-Palaprat, Bernard Raymond .
The restorer, or, to speak more correctly, the
organizer of the Order of the Temple at Paris,
of which he was elected Grand Master in
1804 . He died at Pau, in the lower Pyrenees,
February 18, 1838 . (See Temple, Order of
the .)
Faculty of Abrac . In the so-called Leland
Manuscript, it is said that Masons "conceal
the way of wynninge the facultye of Abrac ."
That is, that they conceal the method of
acquiring the powers bestowed by a knowl-
edge of the magical talisman that is called
Abracadabra . (See Abracadabra and Leland
Manuscript .)
Faith . 	In the theological ladder the ex-
planation of which forms a part of tlhe ritual
of the First Degree of Masonry, faith, is said
to typify the lowest round . Faith, here, is
synonymous with confidence or trust, and
hence we find merely a repetition of the lesson
which had been previously taught that the
first, the essential qualification of a candidate
for initiation, is that he should trust in God .
In the lecture of the same degree, it is said
that "Faith may be lost in sight ; Hope ends
in fruition ; but Charity extends beyond the
grave through the boundless realms of eter-
nity .'; 	And this is said, because as faith is
"the evidence of things not seen " when we
see we no longer believe by faith but through
demonstration ; and as hope lives only in the
expectation of possession, it ceases to exist
when the object once hoped for is at length
enjoyed, but charity, exercised on earth in
acts of mutual kindness and forbearance, is
still found in the world to come, in the sub-
F
FAMILY
ii ., 428) attempts to reconcile the difficulty,
and to remove the anachronism, by saying
that Esdras was the scribe under Joshua,
Haggai, and Zerubbabel, and that he was suc-
ceeded in this important office by Ezra and
Nehemiah . But the English ritual makes no
allusion to this change of succession ; and if it
did, it would not enable us to understand bow
Ezra and Nehemiah could he present as scribes
when the foundations of the second Temple
were laid, and the important secrets of the
Royal Arch degree were brought to light,
unless the Ezra meant is the one who came to
Jerusalem with Nehemiah . There is a con-
fusion is all this which should be rectified .
limer form of mercy from God to his erring
creatures .
Faithful Breast . 	(SeeBreast, the Faithful .)
Falk, De, Rabbi . 	A native Israelite of
-Furth, who attracted some attention in
London at the close of the eighteenth century
in consequence of his presumed extraordinary
powers, acquired through the secrets of the
Kabbala, as a Thaumaturgist . It was alleged
that he could and did transmute metals, and
thereby acquired large sums with which he
was liberal to the poor . A merry incident is
perhaps familiar to the reader . An invitation
was extended by the Baal Shem (the sacer-
dotal pronouncer of the Holy Name) to the
Doctor to call as a visitor for a friendly and
philosophical discussion . This was assented
to, when the Doctor was asked to fix a time .
He did so by taking from his pocket a small
taper and handing it to his new friend, saying :
"Light this, sir, when you get home, and
I shall be with you as soon as it goes out ."
This the gentleman did next morning, ex-
pecting an early call, but the taper appeared
to have a charmed life, and it was deposited
in a special closet, where it continued to burn
for three weeks, and until in the even=g, when
Doctor drove up to the door and alighted,
much to the surprise of the host, who, with
wonderment, had watched the bright-burning
taper . As soon as his visitor was announced,
the light and candlestick disappeared	. 	The
Doctor was asked if the candlestick would
be returned, when he replied, "It is already in
the kitchen" ; and so it was found . A further
incident is mentioned of his leavin upon his
death a sealed box to his parti 	friend,
Aaron Goldsmid stating that to 	n it
portended evil . Aaron could not wit tand
his curiosity, and one day opened it, and ere
the night came Aaron was picked up dead .
Fail of Water . 	(See Waterfall . )
Family Lodge . 	A Lodge held especially
for the transaction of private and local busi-


FANATICISM
ness of so delicate a nature that it is found
necessary to exclude, during the session, the
presence of all except members . In France a
Lodge when so meeting is said to be en
famille, and the meeting is called a tenue de
famille or family session ; in Germany such
Lodges are called, sometimes, Familien-
Logen but more generally Conferenz-Logen .
(See conference Lodges .)
Fanaticism . 	The English interpretation
of the name of the second assassin of the G .
Master, or mankind . 	The frenzy that over-
balances the mind . The Gravelot or Romvel
of philosophical Masonry .
Fanor . The name given to the Syrian
Mason, who is represented in some legends
as one of the assassins . Amru and Metusael
being the other two .
Fasces . The bundle of rods borne before
the Roman magistrates as an ensign of their
authority . In French Masonry, faisceau, or
farces, is used to denote a number of speeches
or records tied up in a roll and deposited in
the archives .
Favorite of Solomon . The Seventh De-
gree, 3d division, of the system of the Chapter
of the High Degrees of Stockholm . (Thory,
Aeta Lat ., i, 313 .)
Favorite Brother of St . Andrew . The
Ninth Degree of the Swedish Rite .
Favorite Brother of St . John . The
Eighth Degree of the Swedish Rite .
Feast . 	The convocation of the Craft to-
gether at an annual feast, for the laudable
purpose of promoting social feelings, and
cementing the bonds of brotherly love by the
interchange of courtesies, is a time-honored
custom, which is unfortunately growin~ into
disuse . The "Assembly and Feast' are
words constantly conjoined in the Book of
Constitutions . At this meeting, no business
of any kind, except the installation of officers,
was transacted, and the day was passed in
innocent festivity . The election of officers
always took place at a previous meeting, in
obedience to a regulation adopted by the
Grand Lodge of England, in 1720, as follows :
"It was agreed, in order to avoid disputes on
the annual feast-day, that the new Grand
Master for the future shall be named and
proposed to the Grand Lodge some time be-
fore the feast ." 	(Constitutions, 1738, p . 111 .)
Feasts of the Order . 	The festivals of St .
John the Baptist and St . John the Evangelist,
June 24th and December 27th, are so called .
Feeling . 	One of the five human senses, and
esteemed by Masons above all the others . For
as Anthony Brewer, an old dramatist, says :
" Though one hear, and see, and smell, and taste,
If he wants touch, he is counted but a block ."
Fees of Honor . 	In the Grand Lodge of
England every Grand Officer, on his election
or reelection, is required to pay a sum of
money, varying from two to twenty guineas .
The sums thus paid for honors bestowed are
technically called "fees of honor ." A similar
custom prevails in the Grand Lodges of Ire-
land and Scotland ; but the usage is unknown
in America .
FELLOW-CRAFT 	261
Feix-Feax . A word signifying School of
Thought, which is found in the First Degree
of the French Adoptive Rite .
Felicity, Order of . 	An androgynous
secret society, founded in 1743, at Paris, by
M . Chambonnet . It was among the first of
the pseudo-Masonic associations, or coteries,
invented by French Masons to gratify the
curiosity and to secure the support of women .
It had a ritual and a vocabulary which were
nautical in their character, and there was a
rather too free indulgence in the latitude of
gallantry . 	• It consisted of four degrees,
Cabin Boy, Master Commodore, and Vice
Admiral . The chic? of the order was called
Admiral, and this position was of course oc-
cupied by M . Chambonnet, the inventer of
the system . (Clavel, Historie Pittoresque, p .
111 .)
Feld Loge . What is designated in Eng-
land and America as a Military or Traveling
Lodge is called in Germany a Feld Loge .
Sometimes, "ein ambulante Loge ."
Fellow . 	The Saxon word for fellow is
felaw . Spelman derives it from two words,
fe and loy, which signifies bound in mutual
trust ; a plausible derivation, and not . unsuited
to the meaning of the word . But Hicks
gives a better etymology when he derives it
from the Anglo-Saxon folgian, "to follow,"
and thus a fellow would he a follower a com-
panion, an associate . 	In the Middle Ages,
the Operative Masons were divided into
Masters and Fellows . Thus in the Harleian
MS ., No . 2054, it is said : "Now I will reherse
other charges in singular for Maisters &
fellowes" 	Those who were of greater skill
held a higher position and were designated as
Masters, while the masses of the fraternity
the commonalty, as we might say, were called
Fellows . 	In the Matthew Cooke MS . this
principle is very plainly laid down . There
it is written that Euclid "ordained that they
who were passing of cunning should be passing
honored, and commanded to call the cunn-
inger Master . . . 	and commanded that
they that were less of wit should not be called
servant nor subject, but Fellow, for nobility
of their gentle blood ." (Lines 675-688 .)
From this custom has originated the modern
title of Fellow-Craft, given to the Second De-
gree of Speculative Masonry ; although not
long after the revival of 1717 the Fellows
ceased to constitute the main body of the
Fraternity, the Masters having taken and still
holding that position .
Fellow-Craft . 	The Second Degree of
Freemasonry in all the Rites is that of the
Fellow-Craft . 	In French it is called Com-
pagnon ; in Spanish, Compaftero ; in Italian,
Compagno ; and in German, Gesell ; in all of
which the radical meaning of the word is a
fellow workman, thus showing the origin of
the title from an operative institution . Like
the Degree of Apprentice, it is only prepara-
tory in the higher initiation of the Master ;
and yet it differs essentially from it in its sym-
bolism . For, as the First Degree was typical
of youth, the Second is supposed to represent

262 	FELLOW-CRAFT
the stage of manhood, and hence the acqui-
sition of science is made its prominent char-
acteristic . While the former is directed in all
its symbols and allegorical ceremonies to the
purification of the heart, the latter is intended
by its lessons to cultivate the reasoning facul-
ties and improve the intellectual powers .
Before the eighteenth century, the great
body of the Fraternity consisted of Fellow-
Crafts, who are designated in all the old manu-
scripts as "Fellows ." After the revival in
1717, the Fellow-Crafts, who then first began
to be called by that name lost their prominent
position, and the great body of the brother-
hood was, for a long time, made up altogether
of Apprentices, while the government of the
Institution was committed to the Masters and
Fellows, both of whom were made only in the
Grand Lodge until 1725, when the regulation
was repealed, and subordinate Lodges were
permitted to confer these two degrees .
Fellow-Craft Perfect Architect . 	(Com-
pagnon Parfait Architect .) 	The Twenty-
sixth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim . There
are several other degrees which, like this, are
so called, not because they have any relation
to the original Second Degree of Symbolic
Masonry, but to indicate that they constitute
the second in any particular series of degrees
which are preparatory to the culmination of
that series . Thus, in the Rite of Mizraim,
we have the Master Perfect Architect, which
is the Twenty-seventh Degree, while the
Twenty-fifth and Twenty-sixth are Appren-
tice and Fellow-Craft Perfect Architect . So
we have in other rites and systems the Fellow-
Craft Cohen Hermetic, and Kabbalistic Fel-
low-Craft, were Master Cohen and Hermetic
and Kabbalistic Master are the topmost de-
grees of the different series . Fellow-Craft in
all these, and many other instances like them
means only the second preparation toward
perfection .
Fellowship, Five Points of . 	(See Points
of Fellowship, Five .)
Female Masonry . 	(See Adoptive Ma-
sonry .)
Female Masons . The landmarks of Specu-
lative Masonry peremptorily exclude females
from any active participation in its mysteries .
But there are a few instances in which the
otherwise unalterable rule of female exclusion
has been made to yield to the peculiar exigen-
cies of the occasion ; and some cases are well
authenticated where this "Salique law" has
been violated from necessity, and females have
been permitted to receive at least the First
Degree . Such, however, have been only the ex-
ceptions which have given confirmation to the
rule . (See Aldworth, Beaton, and Xaintrailles .)
Fendeurs . 	L'Ordre des Fendeurs, i . e . the
Order of Woodcutters, was a secret society,
established at Paris, in 1743, by the Chevalier
Beauchaine . The Lodge represented a for-
est, and was generally held in a garden . It
was androgynous, and had secret signs and
words, and an allegorical language borrowed
from the profession of woodcutting . The
Abb6 Barruel (tom . ii., p . 350, ed . 1797)
FESSLER
thought that the Order originated in the for-
ests among the actual woodcutters, and that
many intelligent inhabitants of the city having
united with them, the operative business of
felling trees was abandoned, and Philosophic
Lodges were established-a course of conver-
sion from Operative to Speculative precisely
like that, he says, which occurred in Masonry,
and this conversion was owing to the number
of Fendeurs who were also Freemasons .
A complete ritual of the Fendeurs is given
in Ars Quatuor Coronatorum, vol . XXII, pp .
37-52 .1
Ferdinand IV . 	This King of the two Sic-
ilies, on the 12th of September, 1775, issued
an edict forbidding the meeting of Masons in
Lodges in his dominions, under penalty of
death . In 1777, at the solicitation of his
queen, Caroline, this edict was repealed, and
Masonry was once more tolerated ; but in 1781
the decree was renewed .
Ferdinand VI . 	In 1751, Ferdinand VI .,
King of Spain, at the solicitation of Joseph
Ferrubia, Visitor of the Holy Inquisition, en-
forced in his dominions the bull of excom-
munication of Pdpe Benedict XIV ., and for-
bade the congregation of Masons under the
highest penalties of law . In the Journal of
Freemasonry, Vienna, 1784 (pp . 176-224),
will be found a translation from Spanish into
German of Ferrubia's "Act of Accusation,"
which gave rise to this persecution .
Ferdinand VII . 	The King of Spain who
bore this title was one of the greatest bigots
of his time . He had no sooner ascended the
throne in 1814, than he reestablished the In-
quisition, which had been abolished by his
predecessor, proscribed the exercise of Free-
masonry, and ordered the closing of all the
Lodges, under the heaviest penalties . In
September following, twenty-five persons
among whom were several distinguished
noblemen, were arrested as "suspected of
Freemasonry ." On March 30, 1818, a still
more rigorous edict was issued, by which those
convicted of being Freemasons were subjected
to the most severe punishments, such as ban-
ishment to India and confiscation of goods, or
sometimes death by a cruel form of execution .
But the subsequent resolution of 1820 and
the abolition of the Inquisition removed these
blots from the Spanish records .
Fervency . 	From the middle of the last
century, ardent devotion to duty, fervor or
fervency, was taught as a Masonic virtue in
the lectures of the First Degree, and sym-
bolized by charcoal, because, as later rituals
say, all metals were dissolved by the fervor
of ignited charcoal . Subsequently, in the
higher degrees, fervency and zeal were sym-
bolized by the color scarlet, which is the
appropriate tincture of Royal Arch Masonry .
Fessler, Ignaz Aurelius . A distinguished
German writer and Masonic reformer, who
was born at Czurendorf, in Hungary, in 1756 .
He was the son of very poor parents . His
mother, who was a bigoted Catholic, had de-
voted him to a monastic life and having been
educated at the Jesuit school of Raab, he took

FESSLER
holy orders in 1772, and was removed to the
Capuchin monastery in Vienna . In conse-
quence, however, of his exposure to the Em-
peror Joseph II . of monastic abuses, he in-
curred the persecutions of his superiors . But
the emperor, having taken him under his
protection, nominated him, in 1783, as ex-
professor of the Oriental languages in the
University of Lemberg . But the monks hav-
ing threatened him with legal proceedings, he
fled to Breslau in 1788, where he subsequently
was appointed the tutor of the son of the
Prince of Corolath . Here he established a
secret Order, called by him the "Evergreen,"
which bore a resemblance to Freemasonry in
its organization, and was intended to effect
moral reforms, which at the time he thought
Masonry incapable of producing . The Order,
however, never really had an active existence,
and the attempt of Fessler failed by the
dissolution, in 1793, of the society . In 1791
he adopted the Lutheran faith, and, having
married, settled in Berlin, where until 1806
he was employed as a superintendent of
schools . He wrote during this period several
historical works, which gave him a high repu-
tation as an author . But the victorious prog-
ress of the French army in Prussia caused
him to lose his official position . Having been
divorced from his wife in 1802, he again mar-
ried, and, retiring in 1803 from Berlin, betook
himself to the quietude of a country life . Be-
coming now greatly embarrassed in pecuniary
matters, he received adequate relief from
several of the German Lodges, for which he
expressed the most lively gratitude . In 1808
he accepted the position of a professor in the
University of St . Petersburg, which, however,
he was soon compelled to relinquish in con-
sequence of the intrigues of the clergy, who
were displeased with his liberal views . Sub-
sequently he was appointed superintendent of
the Evangelical community, over nine Russian
departments, and Ecclesiastical President of
the consistory at Saratow, with a large Wary .
In 1827, on the invitation of the Emperor
Alexander, he removed permanently to St .
Petersburg, where, in 1833, he received the
appointment of Ecclesiastical Counsellor, and
died there December 15, 1839, at the advanced
age of eighty-three years .
Fessler was initiated into Masonry at Lem-
berg, in 1783, and immediately devoted him-
self to the study of its science and history .
In June, 1796, he affiliated with the Lodge
Royal York, zur Freundschaft, in Berlin, and
having been made one of its Sublime Council,
was invested with the charge of revising and
remodeling the entire ritual of the Lodge,
which was based on the high degrees of the
French system . To the accomplishment of
this laborious task Fessler at once, and for a
long time afterward, devoted his great intellect
and his indefatigable energies . In a very
short period he succeeded in a reformation of
the symbolic degrees, and finding the brethern
unwilling to reject the high degrees, which
were four in number, then practised by the
Lodge, he remodeled them, retaining a con-
FESSLER 	26 3
siderable part of the French ritual, but incor-
porated with it a portion of the Swedish sys-
tem . The work thus accomplished met with
general approbation . In his next task of
forming a new Constitution he was not so
successful, although at length he induced the
Royal York Lodge to assume the character
and rank of a Grand Lodge, which it did in
1798, with seven subordinate Lodges under
its obedience . Again Fessler commenced the
work of a revision of the ritual . He had
always been opposed to the high degree sys-
tem . 	He proposed, therefore, the abolition
of everything above the Degree of Master . In
this, however, he was warmly opposed, and
was compelled to abandon his project of
reducing German Masonry to the simplicity
of the English system . Yet he was enabled
to accomplish something, and had the satis-
faction, in 1800, of metamorphosing the Elu
the Ecossais, and the Rose Croix, of the old
ritual of the Royal York Lodge into the "de-
grees of knowledge," which constitute the
Rite known as the Rite of Fessler .
In 1798, Fessler had been elected Deputy
Grand Master when there were but three
Lodges under the Grand Lodge . In 1801
by his persevering activity, the number had
been increased to sixteen . Still, notwith-
standing his meritorious exertions in behalf
of Masonry, he met with that ingratitude,
from those whom he sought to serve, which
appears to be the fate of almost all Masonic
reformers . In 1802, wearied with the opposi-
tion of his antagonists, he renounced all the
offices that he had filled, and resigned from
the Grand Lodge . Thenceforth he devoted
himself in a more retired way to the pursuits
of Masonry .
Before Fessler resigned, he had conceived
and carried out the scheme of establishing a
great union of scientific Masons, who should
devote themselves to the investigation of the
history of Masonry . Of this society Moss-
dorf, Fischer, and many other distinguished
Masons, were members . (See Scientific Ma-
sonic Association .)
Fessler's contributions to the literature of
Freemasonry were numerous and valuable .
His chief work was, An Attempt to Furnish a
Critical History of Freemasonry and the Ma-
sonic Fraternity from the earliest times to the
year 1802 . 	This work was never printed,
but only sold in four folio manuscript volumes
at the price of £30, to persons who pledged
themselves eventually to return it . It was a
mistake to circumscribe the results of his
researches within so narrow a field . But he
published many other works. His produc-
tions were mostly historical and judicial, and
made a great impression on the German
Masonic mind . His collected works were
published in Berlin, from 1801 to 1807, but,
unfortunately, they have never been trans-
lated into English . The object of all he wrote
was to elevate Freemasonry to the highest
sphere of intellectual character .
Fessler, Rite of . 	This Rite, which was
prepared by Fessler at the request of the

2 6 4 	FESTIVALS
Grand Lodge Royal York of Berlin, consisted
of nine degrees, as follows :
1 . Entered Ap sntics .
2 . Fellow-Cra
3 . Master Mason .
These differ but slightly from the same de-
grees in all the Rites and are followed by six
other degrees, which he called the higher
knowledge, namely :
4 . The Holy of Holies .-This degree is
occupied in a critical exposition of the various
hypotheses which have been proposed as to
the on gin of Freemasony ; as, whether it
sprang from the Templars, from the Cathedral
of Strasburg, from the Rose Croix of the
seventeenth century, from Oliver Cromwell,
from the Cathedral of St . Paul's at London,
from that of the Palace of Kensington, or from
the Jesuits .
5 . Justification .-Critical examination of
the origin of certain of the high degrees, such
as the Ecossais and the Chapter of Clermont .
6 . Celebration .-Critical examination of the
four following systems : Rose Croix, Strict
Observance, African Architects, and Initiated
Brothers of Asia .
7 . True Light .-Critical examination of the
Swedish System, the System of Zinnendorf,
the Royal Arch of England, of the succession
of the Mysteries, and of all systems and their
r am ifications .
8. The Country .-Examination of the origin
of the Mysteries of the Divine Kingdom, in-
troduced by Jesus of Nazareth ; of the exoteric
doctrines communicated by him immediately
to his disciples, and of those which sprang up
after his death, up to the time of the Gnostics .
9 . Perfection .-A complete critical history
of all Mysteries comprehended in actual Free-
masonry .
Both Clavel and Ragon say that the rituals
of these degrees were drawn up from the
rituals of the Golden Rose Croix, of the Rite
of Strict Observance, of the Illuminated
Chapter of Sweden, and the Ancient Chapter
of Clermont . Fessler's Rite was, perhaps
the most abstrusely learned and philosophical
of all the Masonic systems ; but it did not have
a long existence, as it was abandoned by the
Grand Lodge, which had at first accepted it,
for the purpose of adopting the Ancient York
Rite under the Constitutions of England .
Festivals . 	In all religions there have been
certain days consecrated to festive enjoyment,
and hence called festivals . Sir Isaac Newton
(on Daniel, p . 204) says : "The heathen were
delighted with the festivals of their gods, and
unwilling to part with these delights ; and
therefore, Gregory Thaumatur_ gus, who died
in 265, and was Bishop of Neociesarea, to
facilitate their conversion, instituted annual
festivals to the saints and martyrs . Hence it
came to pass that for exploding the festivals
of the heathens, the principal festivals of the
Christians succeeded in their room ; as the
keeping of Christmas with joy, and feasting,
and playing, and sports, in the room of the
Bacchanalia and Saturnalia ; the celebrating
of May day with flowers, in the room of the
FIDES
Floralia ; and the keeping of festivals to the
Virgin Mary, John the Baptist, and divers
of the apostles, in the room of the solemnities
at the entrance of the sun into the signs of the
Zodiac, in the old Julian Calendar ." The
Masons, borrowing from and imitating the
usage of the Church, have also always had
their festivals or days of festivity and celebra-
tion . The chief festivals of the Operative or
Stonemasons of the Middle Ages were those
of St . John the Baptist on the 24th of June
and the Four Crowned Martyrs on the 8th of
November . 	The latter was, however, dis-
carded by the Speculative Masons ; and the
festivals now most generally celebrated by the
Fraternity are those of St . John the Baptist,
June 24th, and St . John the Evangelist, Decem-
ber 27th . These are the days kept in this
country . Such, too, was formerly the case in
England ; but the annual festival of the Grand
Lodge of England now falls on the Wednesday
following St . George's day, April 23d, that
saint being the patron of England . For a
similar reason, St . Andrew's day, November
30th, is kept by the Grand Lodge of Scotland .
In Ireland the festival kept is that of St . John
on December 27th .
Feuillans . An androgynous system, found
in Fustier's collection and governed by the
statutes of St . Bernard .
Fidelity . 	(See Fides .)
Fidelity of Baden Durlach, Order of .
Instituted in 1716 by Charles Margrave of
Baden Durlach . The members of the Order
were knighted, selections being made only
from the nobles of ancient family . The
reigning princes were hereditary Grand
Masters .
Fides . 	In the Lecture of the First Degree
it is said that" our ancient brethrenworshipped
deity under the name of Fides or Fidelity,
which was sometimes represented by two
right hands joined, and sometimes by two
human figures holding each other by the right
hands ." The deity here referred to was the
goddess Fides, to whom Numa first erected
temples, and whose priests were covered by a
white veil as a symbol of the purity which
should characterize Fidelity . No victims
were slain on her altars, and no offerings made
to her except flowers, wine, and incense . Her
statues were represented clothed in a white
mantle, with a key in her hand and a dog at
her feet . The virtue of Fidelity is, however,
frequently symbolized in ancient medals by a
heart in the open hand, but more usually by
two right hands clasped. Horace calls her
"incorrupta fides," and makes her the sister of
Justice ; while Cicero says that that which is
religion toward God and piety toward our
parents is fidelity toward our fellow-men .
There was among the Romans another deity
called Fidius, who presided over oaths and
contracts, a very usual form of imprecation
being "Me Dius Fidius adjuvet," that is, so
help me the god Fidius . Noel (Dict . Fab .)
says that there was an ancient marble at
Rome consecrated to the god Fidius, on which
was depicted two figures clasping each other's

FIDUCIAL
hands as the representatives of Honor and
Truth, without which there can be no fidelity
nor truth among men . Masonry, borrowing
its ideals from the ancient p oets, also makes
the right hand the symbol of Fidelity .
Fiducial Sign . That is, the sign of con-
fiding trust, called also the sign of Truth and
Hope . 	One of the signs of the English Royal
Arch system, which is thus explained b y Dr .
Oliver (Diet . Symb . Mas .) : " The fiducial
sign shows us if we prostrate ourselves with
our face to the earth, we thus throw ourselves
on the mercy of our Creator and Judge, look-
in g forward with humble confidence to his
holy promises, by which alone we hope to pass
through the Ark of our redemption into the
mansion of eternal bliss and glory to the
presence of Him who is the great I AM, the
Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the
Ending, the First and the Last ."
Field Lodge, or Army Lodge . A lodge
duly instituted under proper authority from a
grand body of competent jurisdiction, and
authorized to exercise during its peripatetic
existence all the powers and privileges that it
might possess if permanently located . 	Char-
ters of this nature, as the name implies, are
intended for the tented field, and have been
of the greatest service to humanity in its try-
ing hours, when the worst of passions are
appealed to .
Fifteen . 	A sacred number symbolic of the
name of God, because the letters of the holy
name V, JAH, are equal, in the Hebrew mode
of numeration by the letters of the alphabet,
to fifteen ; for' is equal to ten, and 71 is equal to
five . 	Hence, from veneration for this sacred
name, the Hebrews do not, in ordinary com-
p utation, when they wish to express the num-
ber fifteen, make use of these two letters, but
of two others, which are equivalent to nine
and six .
Finances . 	According to universal usage
in Masonry, the Treasurer of the Lodge or
other body is the banker or depositary of the
finances of the Lodge . They are first received
by the Secretary, who receipts for them, and
immediately pays them over to the Treasurer .
The Treasurer distributes them under the
orders of the Master and the consent of the
Lodge . This consent can only be known offi-
cially to him by the statement of the Secre-
tary, and hence all orders drawn on the
Treasurer for the disbursement of money
should be countersigned by the Secretary .
Finch, William . 	A Masonic charlatan,
who flourished at the end of the last and the
beginning of the present century . Finch was
a tailor in Canterbury, who, having been ex-
p elled for some misconduct by the Grand
Lodge, commenced a system of practical Ma-
sonry on his own account, and opened a Lodge
in his house, where he undertook to initiate
candidates and to give instructions in Ma-
sonry . 	He published a great number of pam-
phlets, many of them in a ci p her of his own,
which he pretended were for the instruction of
the Fraternity	. 	Amon g the books published
by him are : 	Masonic Treatise, with an Eluci-
FINDEL 	265
dation on the Religious and Moral Beauties of
Freemasonry etc . ; printed at Canterbury in
1802 . The iF ectures, Laws, and Ceremonies of
the Holy Arch Degree of Freemasonry, etc . ;
Lambeth 1812 . 	The Origin of Freemasons,
etc . ; London, 1816 . 	Finch found many dupes,
and made a great deal of money . But having
on one occasion been sued by an engraver
named Smith, for money due fr printing his
plates, Finch pleaded an offset of money due
by Smith for initiation and instruction in Ma-
sonry . 	Smith brought the Grand Secretary
and other distinguished Masons into court,
who testified that Finch was an impostor .
In consequence of this exposure, Finch lost
credit with the community, and, sinking into
obscurity, died sometime after, in abject
poverty .
As it is impossible to read Finch's Treatises
without a knowledge of the cipher employed
by him, the following key will be found useful .
We owe it to the researches of Bro . H . C . Le-
vander (Freem . Mag . and Rev ., 1859, p . 490) .
In the first part of the book the cipher used is
formed by reversing the alphabet, writing z
for a, y for b, etc . The cipher used on the
title-page differs somewhat from this, as will
be seen from the following tables :
FOR THE TITLE-PAGE .
Cipher . a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k,1, m, n, o,
p, q, r, a, t, u v, w, x, y, z .
Key . b, d, f, h, j, l, n, p, r, t, v, x, z, y, w,
u, a, q, o, in, k, i, g, e, c, a .
FOR THE FIRST PART .
Cipher . a, b, c, d, e, f, g, b, i, j, k, 1, m, n,
o, p, q, r, a, t, u, v, w, x, y, z .
Key . z, y, x, w, v u, t, s, r, q, p, o, n, m, 1,
k, j, i, h, g, f, e, d, c, b, a .
In the second part of the work, a totally
different system is employed . The words may
be deciphered by taking the last letter, then
the first, then the last but one, then the sec-
ond, and so on . 	Two or three words are also
often run into one ; for example, ereetemh-
drdoh, is he ordered them . The nine digits rep-
resent certain words of fre q uent recurrence, a
repetition of the same digit denoting the
plural ; thus, 1 stands for Lodge ; 	11, for
Lodges ; 3, Fellow-Craft ; 33, Fellow-Crafts,
etc .
Findel, J . G . 	A Masonic writer of more
than ordinary note, who was admitted in the
lodge "Eleusis zur Verschwiegenheit," 	at
Baireuth, in 1856 . He was editor of the Bau-
hiitte, an interesting journal, at Leipsic, in
1858, and added materially to Masonic liter-
ature in founding the Verein Deutscher Frei-
maurer, about 1860, and publishing, in 1874,
Geist and Form der Freimaurerei .
His best known and most important work
is his Geschichte der Freimaurerei (or General
History of Freemasonry) published in 1861,
which has been translated into English,
French, and other lan g uages, and was the
first attempt at a critical history of the Craft .
He died in 1905 .
Fines . 	Fines for non-attendance or neg-
lect of duty are not now usually imposed in
I

266 	FIRE
Masonic bodies, because each member is
bound to the discharge of these duties by a
motive more powerful than any that could be
furnished b y a pecuniary penalty . The imposi-
tion of such a penalty would be a tacit ac-
knowledgment of the inadequacy of that
motive, and would hence detract from its
solemnity and its binding nature . It cannot,
however, be denied that the records of old
Lodges show that it was formerly a common
custom to impose fines for a violation of the
rules .
Fire . 	The French, in their Table Lodges,
called the drinking a toast, feu, or fire .
Fire Philosophers . 	(See Theosophists .)
Fire, Pillar of . 	(See Pillars of Cloud and
Fire .)
Fire, Purification 	by . 	(See Purifica-
tion .)
Fire-Worship . 	Of all the ancient relig-
ions, fire-worshi p was one of the earliest, next
to Sabaism ; and even of this it seems only to
have been a development, as with the Sabaists
the sun was deemed the Universal Fire .
"Darius," says Quintus Curtius "invoked the
sun as Mithras, the sacred ancj eternal fire ."
It was the faith of the ancient Magi and the
old Persians, still retained by their modern
descendants the Parsees . But with them it was
not an idolatry . The fire was venerated only
as a visible symbol of the Supreme Deity, of
the creative energy, from whom all things
come, and to whom all things ascend . 	The
flame darting upward 	to meet its divine
original, the mundane fire seeking an ascen-
sion to and an absorption into the celestial
fire, or God himself, constituted what has
been called "the flame-secret" of the fire-
worshipers . This religion was not only very
ancient, but also very universal . From India
it passed over into Egypt, and thence extended
to the Hebrews and to the Greeks, and has
shown its p ower and prevalence even in mod-
ern thought . On the banks of the Nile, the
people did not, indeed, fall down like the old
Persians and worship fire, but they venerated
the fire-secret and its symbolic teaching .
Hence the Pyramids (pyr is Greek for fire),
the representation of ascending flame ; and
Jennings Hargrave shrewdly says that what
has been supposed to be a tomb, in the center
of the Great Pyramid, was in reality a depos-
itory of the sacred, ever-burning fire . Mono-
liths were everywhere in antiquity erected to
fire or to the sun, as the type of fire . Among
the Hebrews, the sacred idea of fire, as some-
thing connected with the Divine Being, was
very prominent . God appeared to Moses in a
flame of fire ; he descended on Mount Sinai
in the midst of flames ; at the Temple the fire
descended from heaven to consume the burnt-
offering . 	Everywhere in Scripture, fire is a
symbol of the holiness of God . The lights on
the altar are the symbols of the Christian God .
The p urifying power of fire is naturally de-
duce3 from this symbol of the holiness of the
element . And in the high degrees of Masonry,
as in the ancient institutions, there is a puri-
fication by fire, coming down to us insensibly
and unconsciously from the old Magian cul-
tus . 	In the Medieval ages there was a sect
of "fire-philosophers"-philosophi per
Rosicru-
cianism,
-who were a branch or offshoot of Rosicru-
cianism, with which Freemasonry has so much
in common . These fire-philosophers kept up
the veneration for fire, and cultivated the
"fire-secret," not as an idolatrous belief, but
modified by their hermetic notions . 	The y
were also called "theosophists," and through
them, or in reference to them, we find the
theosophic degrees of Masonry, which sprang
up in the eighteenth century . 	As fire and
light are identical, so the fire, which was to
the Zoroastrians the symbol of the Divine
Being, is to the Mason, under the equivalent
idea of light the symbol of Divine Truth, or
of the Grand Architect .
Firrao, Joseph . 	A cardinal priest who, in
1738, published the edict of Pope Clement
XII . against Freemasonry .
Fish . 	The Greek word for fish is IXwi .
Now these five letters are the initials of the
five words In ? oovs Xpta°ros Oeov Ttos &ori p,
that is, Jesus Christ the Son of God, the Savior .
Hence the early Christians adopted the fish as
a Christian symbol ; and it is to be found on
many of their tombs, and was often worn as an
ornament . Clement of Alexandria, in writing
of the ornaments that a Christian may con-
stantly wear, mentions the fish as a proper
device for a ring, as serving to remind the
Christian of the origin of his spiritual life, the
fish referring to the waters of baptism . 	The
Vesica Piscis, which is an oval figure, pointed
at both ends, and representing the air bladder
of a fish, was adopted, and is still often used as
the form of the seal of religious houses and con-
fraternities . Margoliouth (Vest . of Gen . Freem .,
45) says : "In former days, the Grand Master
of our Order used to wear a silver fish on his
person ; but it is to be regretted that, amongst
the many innovations which have been of late
introduced into the society to conciliate the
prejudices of some who cannot consistently be
members of it, this beautiful emblem has dis-
appeared	."
Five . 	Among the Pythagoreans five was a
mystical number, because it was formed by
the union of the first even number and the
first odd, rejecting unity ; and hence it sym-
bolized the mixed conditions of order and dis-
order, happiness and mis fortune, life and
death . 	The same union of the odd and even,
or male and female, numbers made it the sym-
bol of marriage . Among the Greeks it was a
symbol of the world, because, says Diodorus,
it represented ether and the four elements .
It was a sacred round number among the He-
brews . In Egypt, India, and other Oriental
nations, says Gesenius, the five minor planets
and the five elements and elementary powers
were accounted sacred . It was the pentas of
the Gnostics and the Hermetic Philosophers ;
it was the symbol of their quintessence, the
fifth or highest essence of power in a natural
body . 	In Masonry, five is a sacred number,
inferior only in importance to three and seven .
It is especially significant in the Fellow-Craft's

FIVE-POINTED
Degree, where five are required to hold a
Lodge, and where, in the wording stairs, the-
five steps are referred to the orders of archi-
tecture and the human senses . In the Third
Degree, we find the reference to the five points
of fellowship and their symbol the five-
pointer star . Geometry, too, which is deemed
synonymous with Masonry, is called the fifth
science ; and, in fact, throughout nearly all the
degrees of Masonry, we find abundant allu-
sions to five as a sacred and mystical number .
Five-Pointed Star . The five-pointed star,
which is not to be confounded with the blazing
star, is not found among the old symbols of
Masonry ; indeed, some writers have denied
that it is a Masonic emblem at all . It is un-
doubtedly of recent origin, and was probably
introduced by Jeremy Cross, who placed it
among the plates in the emblems of the Third
Degree prefixed to his Hieroglyphic Chart . It is
not mentioned in the ritual or the lecture of
the Third Degree, but the Masons of this coun-
try have, by tacit consent, referred to it as a
symbol of the Five Points of Fellowship . The
outlines of the five-pointed star are the same
as those of the pentalpha of Pythagoras, which
was the symbol of health . M . Jomard, in his
Description de l'Egypte (tom . viii ., p . 423),
says that the star engraved on the Egyptian
monuments, where it is a very common hiero-
glyphic, has constantly five points, never
more nor less .
Five Points of Fellowship . 	(See Points
of Fellowship, Five .)
Five Senses . 	The five senses of Hearing,
Seeing, Feeling, Tasting, and Smelling are in-
troduced into the lecture of the Fellow-Craft
as a part of the instructions of that Degree .
See each word in its appropriate place . In the
earlier lectures of the eighteenth century, the
five senses were explained in the First Degree
as referring to the five who make a Lodge .
Their subsequent reference to the winding
stairs, and their introduction into the second
degree, were modern improvements . As these
senses are the avenues by which the mind re-
ceives its perceptions of things exterior to it,
and thus becomes the storehouse of ideas, they
are most appropriately referred to that degree
of Masonry whose professed object is the pur-
suit and acquisition of knowledge .
Fixed Lights . 	In the old lectures of the
last century, the fixed lights were the three
windows always supposed to exist in the East,
South, and West . Their uses were, according
to the ritual, "to light the men to, at, and from
their work ." In the modern lectures the~
have been omitted, and their place as symbols
supplied by the lesser lights .
Flaming Sword . A sword whose blade is
of a spiral or twisted form is called by the
heralds a flaming sword, from its resemblance
to the ascending curvature of a flame of fire .
Until very recently, this was the form of the
Tiler's sword . Carelessness or ignorance has
now in many Lodges substituted for it a com-
mon sword of any form . The flaming sword
of the Tiler refers to the flaming sword which
guarded the entrance to Paradise, as described
FLORIDA 	267
in Genesis (iii ., 24) : "So he drove out the man ;
and he placed at the east of the garden of
Eden cherubims and a flaming sword
which turned every way, to keep the
way of the tree of life" ; or, as Raphall
has translated it, "the flaming sword
which revolveth, to guard the way to
the tree of life ." In former times,
when symbols and ceremonies were
more respected than they are now ;
when collars were worn, and not rib-
bons in the buttonhole - and when
the standing column of : the Senior
Warden, and the recumbent one of p,
the Junior during labor, to be re-
versed 	during refreshment, were
deemed necessary for the complete
furniture of the Lodge, the cavalry sword was
unknown as a Masonic implement, and the
Tiler always bore a flaming sword . It were
better if we could get back to the old customs .
Floats . 	Pieces of timber, made fast to-
gether with rafters, for conveying burdens
down a river with the stream . The use of
these floats in the building of the Temple is
thus described in the letter of King Hiram to
Solomon : "And we will cut wood out of Leb-
anon, as much as thou shalt need ; and we will
bring it to thee in flotes by sea to Joppa ;
and thou shalt carry it up to Jerusalem ."
(2 Chron . ii ., 16 .)
Floor . 	The floor of a properly constructed
Lodge room should be covered with alternate
squares of black and white, to represent the
Mosaic pavement which was the ground floor
of King Solomon's Temple .
Floor-Cloth . 	A framework of board or
canvas, on which the emblems of any par-
ticular degree are inscribed, for the assistance
of the Master in giving a lecture . It is so
called because formerly it was the custom to
inscribe these designs on the floor of the
Lodge room in chalk, which were wiped out
when the Lodge was closed . It is the same as
the "Carpet," or "Tracing Board ."
Flooring . The same as floor-cloth, which
see .
Florian, Squin de . 	The first accuser of
Grand Master Jacques de Molay and the
Knights Templar . He was subsequently as-
sassinated .
Florida . Freemasonry was first introduced
into Florida, in 1806, by the organization,
in the city of St . Augustine, of St . Fernando
Lodge by the Grand Lodge of Georgia . In
the year 1811, it was suppressed by a man-
date of the Spanish government . In 1820, the
Grand Lodge of South Carolina granted a
Charter to Floridian Virtue Lodge, No . 28,
but, in consequence of the hostility of the polit-
ical and religious authorities, it did not long
exist . In 1824, the Grand Lodge of South Cars-
lina granted another Charter for Esperanza
Lodge at St . Augustine, which body, however,
became extinct after a year by the removal of
moat of its members to Havana . In 1826, the
Grand Lodges of Tennessee and Georgiaa
granted warrants for the establishment rep
spectively of Jackson Lodge at Tallahassee,

268 	FLUDD
Washington Lodge at Quincy, and Harmony
Lodge at Mariana . On the 5th of July, 1830,
delegates from these three Lodges met at Tal-
lahassee, and organized the Grand Lodge of
Florida, which has 166 subordinate Lodges
under its rule .
Fludd, Robert . 	Robert Fludd, or, as he
called himself in his Latin writings, Robertus
de Fluctibus, was in the seventeenth century a
prominent member of the Rosicrucian Fra-
ternity . He was born in England in 1574, and
having taken the degrees of Bachelor and Mas-
ter of Arts at St . John's College, Oxford, he
commenced the study of physic, and in due
time took the degree of Doctor of Medicine .
He died in 1637 . In 1616, he commenced the
publication of his works and became a volu-
minous writer, whose subject and style were
equally dark and mysterious . The most im-
portant of his publications are : Apologia Com-
pendaria, Fraternitatem de Rosea Cruce, sus-
picionis et infamice maculis aspersum abluens,
(Leyden, 1616), i . e ., A Brief Apology, clearing
the Fraternity of the Rosy Cross from the
stigma of suspicion and infamy with which
they have been aspersed ; and Tractatus Apolo-
geticus integritatem Societatis de Rosea truce
defendens contra Libanium et alios (Leyden,
1617), or, An Apologetic Tract defending the
purity of the Society of the Rosy Cross from the
attacks of Libanius and others . And last, and
wildest of all, was his extravagant work on
magic, the kabbala, alchemy, and Rosicru-
cianism, entitled Summum bonum, quod est
verism 	magice, 	cabaa?l, alchymice, fratrum
Rosae Crucis verorum very subjectum . 	Rosi-
crucianism was perhaps indebted more to
Fludd than to any other person for its intro-
duction from Germany into England, and it
may have had its influence in molding the
form of Speculative Freemasonry ; but we are
not prepared to go as far as a distinguished
writer in the London Freemasons' Magazine
(April, 1858, p . 677), who says that "Fludd
must be considered as the immediate father of
Freemasonry as Andrea was its remote father ."
Nicolai more rationally remarks that Fludd,
like Andrea, exerted a considerable and bene-
ficial influence on the manners of his age . His
explanation of the Rose Croix is worth quot-
ing . He says that it symbolically signifies
the cross dyed with the blood of the Savior ;
a Christian idea which was in advance of the
original Rosicrucians .
Folkes, Martin . From his acquaintance
with Sir Christopher Wren, and his intimacy
with Dr . Desaguliers, Martin Folkes was in-
duced to take an active part in the reorganiza-
tion of Freemasonry in the beginning of the
last century, and his literary attainments and
prominent position in the scientific world en-
abled him to exercise a favorable influence on
the character of the Institution . He was de-
scended from a good family, being the eldest
son of Martin Folkes, Esq ., Counsellor at
Law, and Dorothy, the daughter of the Sir
William Howell, Knt ., of the county of Nor-
folk . He was born in Queen Street, Leicester
Inn Fields, Westminster, October 29, 1690 . In
MIKES
1707 he was entered at Clare Hall, Cambridge,
and in 1713 elected a Fellow of the Royal Soci-
ety, of which, in 1723, he was appointed Vice-
President . In 1727, on the death of Sir Isaac
Newton= he became a candidate for the Pres-
idency, m which he was defeated by Sir Hans
Sloane, who, however, renewed his appoint-
ment as Vice-President, and in 1741, on the
resignation of Sloane as President, he was
elected his successor . 	In 1742 he was
elected a member of the Royal Academy of
Sciences of Paris, and in 1746 received the
degree of Doctor of Laws from the Universi-
ties of Oxford and Cambridge .
In 1750, he was elected President of the So-
ciety of Antiquaries . To this and to the Royal
Society he contributed many essa s, and pub-
lished a work entitled, A Table of yEnglish Sil-
ver Coins, which is still much esteemed as a
numismatic authority . 	On September 26,
1751, he was struck with paralysis, from which
be never completely recovered . On November
30, 1753, he resigned the Presidency of the
Royal Society, but retained that of the Society
of Antiquaries until his death . In 1733, he
visited Italy, and remained there until 1735,
during which time he appears to have ingrati-
ated himself with the Masons of that country,
for in 1742 they struck a medal in his honor, a
copy of which is to be found in Thory's His-
tory of the Foundation of the Grand Orient of
France . 	On one side is a pyramid, a sphinx,
some Masonic ciphers and the two pillars,
and on the obverse a li(ceness of Folkes .
Of the Masonic life of Folkes we have but
few records . In 1725, he was appointed Dep-
uty Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, and is recorded as having paid great at-
tention to the duties of his office . Anderson
says that he presided over the Grand Lodge in
May of that year, and " Rrompted a most
agreeable communication . 	(Constitutions,
1738, p . 119 .) But he held no office afterward ;
yet he is spoken of as having taken great in-
terest in the Institution . Of his literary con-
tributions to Masonry nothing remains .
The Pocket Companion cites an address by
him, in 1725, before the Grand Lodge, prob-
ably at that very communication to which
Anderson has alluded, but it is unfortunately
no longer extant . He died June 28, 1754, and
was buried in the Chancel of Hillington
Church near Lynn, Norfolk . He left a wife
and two daughters, an only son having died
before him .
Nichols, who knew him personally, says
(Lit . Anecd ., ii ., 591) of him : "His knowledge
was very extensive, his judgment exact and
accurate, and the precision of his ideas ap-
pe~ared from the perspicuity and conciseness of
his expression in his discourses and writings on
abstruse and difficult topics . . . 	. He had
turned his thoughts to the study of antiquity
and the polite arts with a philosophical spirit
which he had contracted by the cultivation of
the mathematical sciences from his earliest
youth ." His valuable library of more than
five thousand volumes was sold for £3,090 at
auction after his decease .

FOOL
Fool . A fool, as one not in possession of
sound reason, a natural or idiot, is intellec-
tually unfit for initiation into the mysteries of
Freemasonry, because he is incapable of
comprehending. the principles of the Institu-
tion, and is without any moral responsibility
for a violation or neglect of its duties .
Footstone . 	The corner-stone . 	"To level
the footstone" : to lay the corner-stone . Thus,
Oliver="Solomon was enabled to level the
footstone of the Temple in the fourth year of
his reign "
Foot to Foot . 	The old lectures of the last
century descanted on the symbolism of foot
to foot as teaching us "that indolence should
not permit the foot to halt or wrath to turn
our steps out of the way ; but forgetting in-
juries and selfish feelings, and remembering
that man was born for the aid of his fellow-
creatures, not for his own enjoyments only,
but to do that which is good, we should be
swift to extend our mercy and benevolence to
all, but more partic ula rly to a brother Mason ."
The present lecture on the same subject gives
the same lesson more briefly and more em-
phatically, when it says, "we should never
halt nor grow weary in the service of a brother
Mason ."
c
Fords of the Jordan . 	The slaughter of
the Ephraimites at the passages or fords of the
river Jordan which is described in the twelfth
chapter of to Book of Judges, is referred to in
the ritual of the Fellow-Craft's Degree . Morris,
in his Freemasonry in the Holy Land (p . 316),
says : "The exact locality of these fords (or
`passages,' as the Bible terms them), cannot
now be designated, but most likely they were
those nearly due east of Seikoot and opposite
Mizpah . At these fords in summer time the
water is not more than tree or four feet deep,
the bottom being composed of a hard lime-
stone rock . If, as some think, the fords, thirty
miles higher up, are those referred to, the same
description will ap ly . At either place, the
Jordan is about ei 	ty feet wide, its banks en-
umbered by a d ense growth of tamarisks,
cane, willows, thorn-bushes, and other low
vegetation of the shrubby and thorny sorts,
which make it difficult even to approach the
margin of the stream . The Arabs cross the
river at the present day, at stages of low
water, at a number of fords, from the one near
the point where the Jordan leaves the Sea of
Galilee down to the Pilgrims' Ford, six miles
above the Dead Sea ."
Foreign Country . The lecture of the
Third Degree begins by declaring that the
recipient was induced to seek that sub-
lime degree "that he might perfect himself in
Masonry, so as to travel into foreign countries,
and work and receive wages as a Master
Mason ."
Thousand have often heard this ritualistic
expression at the opening and closing of a
Master's Lodge without dreaming for a mo-
ment of its hidden and spiritual meaning, or,
if they think of any meaning at all, they con-
tent themselves by interpreting it as refrring
to the actual travels of the Masons, after the
FORM 	269
completion of the Temple, into the surround-
ing countries in search of employment, whose
wages were to be the gold and silver which
they could earn by the exercise of their skill in
the operative art .
But the true symbolic meaning of the for-
eign country into which the Master Mason
travels in search of wages is far different .
The symbolism of this life terminates with
the Master's Degree . The completion of that
degree is the lesson of death and the resur-
rection to a future life, where the TRUE WORD,
or Divine Truth, not given in this, is to be re-
ceived as the reward of a life worthily spent in
its search . Heaven, the future life, the higher
state of existence after death, is the foreign
country in which the Master Mason is to enter,
and there he is to receive his wages in the re-
ception of that TRUTH which can be imparted
only in that better land .
Foresters' Degrees . 	This title has been
given to certain secret associations which de-
rive their symbols and ceremonies from trades
practised in forests, such as the Carbonari, or
Charcoal-burners ; the Fendeurs, or Wood-
cutters ; the Sawyers, etc . They are all imita-
tive of Freemasonry .
Forest of Lebanon . 	(See Lebanon .)
Forfeiture of Charter . A Lodge may for-
feit its charter for misconduct, and when for-
feited the warrant or charter is revoked by the
Grand Lodge .
Form . In Masonry, an official act is said
to be done, according to the rank of the per-
son who does it, either in am p le form, in due
form, or simply in form . 	Thus, when the
Grand Lodge is opened by the Grand Master
in person, it is said to be opened in ample form ;
when by the Deputy Grand Master, it is said
to be in due form/ when by any other quali-
fied officer, it is said to be inform . The legality
of the act is the same whether it be done in
form or in ample form ; and the epithet refers
only to the dignity of the officer by whom the
act is performed .
Form of the Lodge . 	The terms "Ample"
and "Due" Form appear to have been intro-
duced by Anderson m the 1738 ed . of the Con-
stitutions (p . 110) . The form of a Mason's
Lodge is said to be an oblong square, having
its greatest length from east to west and its
greatest breadth from north to sout . This
oblong form of the Lodge has, I think, a sym-
bolic allusion that has not been adverted to by
any other writer .
If, on a map of the world, we draw lines
which shall circumscribe just that portion
which was known and inhabited at the time
of the building of Solomon's Temple, these
lines, running a short distance north and
south of the Mediterranean Sea, and extend-
ing from Spain to Asia Minor will form an
oblong square, whose greatest length will be
from east to west, and whose greatest breadth
will be from north to south, as is shown in
the annexed diagram .
There is a peculiar fitness in this theory,
which is really only making the Masome
Lodge a symbol of the world . 	It must be

270 	FORMULA
remembered that, at the era of the Temple,
the earth was supposed to have the form of a
parallelogram, or "oblong square ." Such a
figure inscribed upon a map of the world, and
including only that part of it which was
known in the days of Solomon, would present
just such a square, embracing the Mediter-
ranean Sea and the countries lying immedi-
atel on its northern, southern, and eastern
borers . Beyond, far in the north, would be
Cimmerian deserts as a place of darkness,
while the pillars of Hercules in the west, on
each side of the Straits of Gades-now Gib-
raltar-might appropriately be referred to the
two pillars that stood at the porch of the
Temple . Thus the world itself would be the
true Mason's Lodge, in which he was to live
and labor . Again : the solid contents of the
earth below, "from the surface to the centre,"
and the profound expanse above, "from the
earth to the highest heavens," would give to
this parallelogram the outlines of a double
cube, and meet thereby that definition which
says that "the form of the Lodge ought to be
a double cube, as an expressive emblem of
the powers of light and darkness in the crea-
tion ."
Formula . 	A prescribed mode or form of
doing or saying anything . The word is de-
rived from the technical language of the
Roman law, where, after the old legal actions
had been abolished, suits were practised ac-
cording to certain prescribed forms called
formulae .
Formulas in Freemasonry are very frequent .
They are either oral or monitorial . Oral for-
mulas are those that are employed in various
parts of the ritual, such as the opening and
closing of a Lodge, the investiture of a candi-
date, etc . From the fact of their oral trans-
mission they are frequently corrupted or al-
tered, which is one of the most prolific sources
of non-conformity so often complained of by
Masonic teachers . Monitorial formulas are
those that are committed to writing, and are
to be found in the various monitors and
manuals . They are such as relate to public
installations, to laym g foundation-stones, to
dedications of halls, to funerals, etc . Their
monitorial character ought to preserve them
from change ; but uniformity is not even here
always attained, owing to the whims of the
compilers of manuals or of monitors, who
have often unnecessarily changed the form of
words from the original standard .
FORTY
Fort Hiram . 	An earthwork erected on
October 3, 1814, at Fox Point, Rhode Island,
by the Grand Lodge, with the members of the
subordinate Lodges, about two hundred and
thirty in number . The object was to build a
fortification for the defense of the harbor of
Providence, and the G . Lodge, of which
Thomas Smith Webb was Grand Master,
through its Deputy, Sen . G . Warden, and W .
Bro . Carlisle were authorized to work on the
defenses . They formed a procession, marched
in the early morning to the Point, and by sun-
set had completed their labors consisting of a
breastwork four hundred and thirty feet in
length, ten wide, and five high . They then
marched and countermarch upon the para-
pet from one extremity to the other, when
the G . Master gave the work the appellation
of Fort Hiram which was approved and
sanctioned by tie Governor .
Fort Masonic . 	A redoubt of the fortifi-
cations on what was known as the Heights
of Brooklyn, located between, what is now,
Bond and Nevins Streets, Brooklyn, the
south point of the quadrangle resting on
State Street and extending north nearly to
Schermerhorn Street ; built by members of
the fourteen Lodges located in New York
City, who, agreeable to a resolution of the
Grand Lodge, of which De Witt Clinton was
Grand Master, adopted August 22, 1814, as-
sembled at sunrise on the morning of Thurs-
day, September 1st, and accompanied by the
officers of the Grand Lodge, proceeded to
Brooklyn where they were joined by the
members of Fortitude and Newton Union
Lodges, marched to the Height and performed
one day's work on the fortifications ; the re-
doubt was not completed, however, until Sep-
tember 17th, when another day's labor was
performed . 	[W . J . A .]
Fortitude . 	One of the four cardinal vir-
tues, whose excellencies are dilated on in the
First Degree . It not only instructs the
worthy Mason to bear the ills of life with be-
coming resignation, "taking up arms against a
sea of trouble," but, by its intimate connec-
tion with a portion of our ceremonies, it
teaches him to let no dangers shake, no pains
dissolve the inviolable fidelity he owes to the
trusts reposed in him . Or, in the words of
the old Prestonian lecture, it is "a fence or
security against any attack that might be
made upon him by force or otherwise, to ex-
tort from him any of our Royal Secrets ."
Spence, in his Polrnnetis (p . 139) when de-
scribing the moral virtues, says of Fortitude-
" She may be easily known by her erect air and
military dress, the spear she rests on with one
hand, and the sword which she holds in the
other . She has a globe under her feet ; I sup-
pose to show that the Romans, by means of
this virtue, were to subdue the whole world ."
Forty . 	The multiple of two perfect num-
bers-four and ten. This was deemed a sa-
cred number, as commemorating many events
of religious signification, some of which are as
follows : The alleged period of probation of
our first parents in Eden ; the continuous del-

FORTY-SEVENTH
uge of forty days and nights, and the same
number of days in which the waters remained
upon the face of the earth ; the Lenten season
of forty days' fast observed by Christians with
reference to the fast of Jepus in the Wilderness,
and by the Hebrews to the earlier desert fast
for a similar period ; of the forty years spent in
the Desert by Moses and Elijah and the Is-
raelites, which succeeded the concealment of
Moses the same number of years in the land of
Midian . Moses was forty days and nights on
the Mount . The days for embalming the dead
were fort 	The forty years of the reign of
Saul, of David, and of Solomon ; the forty
days of grace allotted to Nineveh for repent-
ance ; the forty days' fast before Christmas
in the Greek Church ; as well as its being the
number of days of mourning in Assyria,
Phenicia, and Egypt, to commemorate the
death and burial of their Sun God ; and as well
the period in the festivals of the resurrection
of Adonis and Osiris ; the period of forty days
thus being a bond by which the whole world
ancient and modern, Pagan, Jewish, and
Christian, is united in religious sympathy .
Hence, it was determined as the period of
mourning by the Supreme Council of the
A . A . Scottish Rite of the Northern Juris-
diction U . S .
Forty-Seventh Problem . The forty-sev-
enth problem of Euclid's first book, which has
been adopted as a symbol in the Master's
Degree, is thus enunciated : "In any right-
angled triangle, the square which is de-
scribed upon the side subtending the right
angle is equal to the squares described upon
the sides which contain the right angle ."
Thus, in a triangle whose perpendicular is 3
feet, the square of which is 9, and whose base
is 4 feet, the square of which is 16, the hy-
pothenuse, or subtending side, will be 5 feet,
the square of which will be 25, which is the
sum of 9 and 16 . This interesting problem, on
account of its great utility in making calcula-
tions and drawing plans for buildings, is some-
times called the "Carpenter's Theorem ."
For the demonstration of this problem the
world is indebted to Pythagoras, who, it is
said, was so elated after making the discovery,
that he made an offering of a hecatomb, or a
sacrifice of a hundred oxen, to the gods . The
devotion to learning which this religious act
indicated in the mind of the ancient philoso-
pher has induced Masons to adopt the prob-
lem as a memento, instructing them to be
lovers of the arts and sciences .
The triangle, whose base is 4 parts, whose
perpendicular is 3, and whose hypothenuse is
5, and which would exactly serve for a demon-
stration of this problem, was, according to
Plutarch, a symbol frequently employed by
the Egyptian priests, and hence it is called by
M . Jomard, in his Exposition du Systeme
Met ' 	des Anciens Egyptiens, the Egyptian
trianglg e .. It was, with the Egyp tians, the
symbol of universal nature, the base repre-
senting Osiris, or the male principle ; the per-
pendicular Isis, or the female principle ; and
the hypothenuse, Hors, their son, or the
FORTY-SEVENTH 	271
produce of the two principles . They added
that 3 was the first perfect odd number, that
4 was the square of 2, the first even number,
and that 5 was the result of 3 and 2 .
But the Egy~t~ians made a still more im-
portant use of this triangle . It was the stand-
ard of all their measures of extent, and was
applied by them to the building of the pyra-
mids . The researches of M . Jomard, on the
Egyptian system of measures, published in
the magnificent work of the French savants on
Egypt, has placed us completely in possession
of the uses made by the Egyptians of this forty-
seventh problem of Euclid, and of the triangle
which formed the diagram by which it was
demonstrated .
If we inscribe within a circle a triangle,
whose perpendicular shall be 300 parts, whose
base shall be 400 parts, and whose hypothe-
nuse shall be 500 parts, which, of course, bear
the same proportion to each other as 3, 4, and
5 ; then if we let a perpendicular fall from the
angle of the perpendicular and base to the
hypothenuse, and extend it through the hy-
pothenuse to the circumference of the circle,
this chord or line will be equal to 480 parts, and
the two segments of the hypothenuse, on each
side of it, will be found equal, respectively, to
180 and 320 . From the point where this cord
intersects the hypothenuse let another line fall
perpendicularly to the shortest side of the tri-
angle, and this line will be equal to 144 parts,
while the shorter segment, formed by its junc-
tion with the perpendicular side of the triangle,
will be equal to 108 parts . Hence, we may de-
rive the following measures from the diagram :
500, 480 1 400, 320, 180, 144, and 108, and all
these without the slightest fraction . Sup-
posing, then, the 500 to be cubits, we have
the measure of the base of the great pyra-
mid of Memphis . In the 400 cubits of the
base of the triangle we have the exact
length of the Egyptian stadium . The 320
gives us the exact number of Egyptian
cubits contained in the Hebrew and Baby-
lonian stadium . The stadium of Ptolemy is
represented by the 480 cubits, or length of
the line falling from the right angle to the
circumference of the circle, through the hy-
pothenuse . The number 180, which expresses
the smaller segment of the hypothenuse being
doubled, will give 360 cubits, which will be
the stadium of Cleomedes . By doubling the
144, the result will be 288 cubits, or the length
of the stadium of Archimedes ; and by doub-
ling . the 108, we produce 216 cubits, or the
precise value of the lesser Egyptian stadium .
In this manner, we obtain from this triangle
all the measures of length that were in use
among the Egyptians ; and since this triangle,
whose sides are equal to 3, 4, and 5, was the
very one that most naturally would be used in
demonstrating the forty-seventh problem of
Euclid ; and since by these three sides the
Egyptians symbolized Osiris, Isis, and Horus,
or the two producers and the product, the
very principle, expressed in symbolic lan-
guage, which constitutes the terms of the prob-
lem as enunciated by Pythagoras, that the

272 	FORTY-TWO
sum of the squares of the two sides will
produce the square of the third, we have
no reason to doubt that the forty-seventh
problem was well known to the Egyptian
priests, and by them communicated to Pyth-
agoras .
Dr . Lardner, in his edition of Euclid, says :
" Whether we consider the forty-seventh prop-
osition with reference to the peculiar and
beautiful relation established in it, or to its
innumerable uses in every department of
mathematical science, or to its fertility in the
consequences derivable from it, it must cer-
ts,inly be esteemed the most celebrated and
important in the whole of the elements, if not
in the whole range, of mathematical science .
It is by the influence of this proposition, and
that which establishes the similitude of equi-
angular triangles (in the sixth book), that
geometry has been brought under the dominion
of algebra ; and it is upon the same princi-
ples that the whole science of trigonometry is
founded .
"The XXXIId and XLVIIth propositions
are said to have been discovered by Pythago-
ras, and extraordinary accounts are given of
his exultation upon his first perception of
their truth . It is, however supposed by some
that Pythagoras acquired a knowledge of
them in E5ypt, and was the first to make them
known in Greece ."
Forty-Two . 	The number of judges re-
quired to sit by the body of the Egyptian dead
pending the examination, and without which
the deceased had no portion in Amenti .
(See Truth .)
Forty-Two-Lettered Name . (See Twelve-
Lettered Name .)
Foul . 	The ballot-box is said to be "foul"
when, in the ballot for the initiation or ad-
vancement of a candidate, one or more black
balls are found in it .
Foundation-Stone . 	This term has been
repeatedly used by. Dr . Oliver, and after him
by some other writers, to designate the chief
or corner-stone of the Temple or any other
building . Thus, Oliver says, "the Masonic
days proper for laying the foundation-stone of
a Mason's Lodge are from the 15th of April to
the 15th of May" ; evidently meaning the
corner-stone . The usage is an incorrect one .
The foundation-stone, more properly the stone
of foundations, is very different from the cor-
ner-stone .
Foundation, Stone of. 	(See Stone of
Foundation .)
Fountain . 	In some of the high degrees
a fountain constitutes a part of the furniture
of the initiation . In the science of symbol-
ogy, the fountain, as representing a stream of
contin ual ly flowing water, is a symbol of re-
freshment to the weary ; and so it might be
applied in the degrees m which it is found, al-
though there is no explicit interpretation of it
in the ritual, where it seems to have been in-
troduced rather as an exponent of the damp-
ness and darkness of the place which was a
refuge for criminals and a spot fit for crime .
Brother Pike refers to the fountain as "tra-
FOUR
dition, a slender stream flowing from the Past
into the Present, which, even in the thickest
darkness of barbarism, keeps alive some mem-
ory of the Old Truth in the human heart ."
But this beautiful idea is not found in the sym-
bolism as interpreted in the old rituals .
Four . 	Four is the tetrad or quarternary of
the Pythagoreans, and it is a sacred number in
the high degrees. The Pythagoreans called it a
perfect number, and hence it has been adopted
as a sacred number in the Degree of Perfect
Master . 	In many nations of antiquity the
name of God consists of four letters, as the
ADAD, of the Syrians, the AMus of the Egyp-
tians, the oEOZ of the Greeks, the DEus of the
Romans, and preeminently the Tetragram-
maton or four-lettered name of the Jews . But
in Symbolic Masonry this number has no
special significance .
Four Crowned Martyrs . 	The legend of
"The Four Crowned Martyrs" should be in-
teresting to Masonic scholars, because it is one
of the few instances, perhaps the only one, in
which the church has been willing to do honor
to those old workers in stone, whose services it
readily secured in the Medieval ages, but with
whom, as with their successors the modern
Freemasons, it has always appeared to be in a
greater or less degree of antagonism . Besides,
these humble but true-hearted confessors of the
faith of Christianity were adopted by the
Stonemasons of Germany as the patron saints
of Operative Masonry, just as the two Saints
John have been since selected as the patrons of
the Speculative branch of the Institution .
The late Dr . Christian Ehrmann, of Stras-
burg, who for thirty years had devoted his at-
tention to this and to kindred subjects of Ma-
sonic archeology, has supplied us with the
most interesting details of the life and death
of the Four Crowned Martyrs .
The Roman Church has consecrated the
8th of November to the commemoration of
these martyrs, and yearly, on that day offers
up the prayer : "Grant, we beseech thee, 0
Almighty God, that as we have been informed
of the constancy of the glorious martyrs in the
profession of Thy faith, so we may experience
their kindness in recommending us to Thy
mercy ." The Roman Breviary of 1474 is more
explicit, and mentions them particularly by
name .
It is, therefore, somewhat remarkable, that,
although thus careful in their commemora-
tion, the missals of the church give us no in-
formation of the deeds of these holy men . It
is only from the breviaries that we can learn
anything of the act on which the commemora-
tion in the calendar was founded . Of these
breviaries, Ehrmann has given full citations
from two : the Breviary of Rome, published in
1474, and the Breviary of Spire, published in
1478 . 	These, with some few extracts from
other books on the subject, have been made
accessible to us by George Moss, in his inter-
esting work entitled, Freimaurerei in ihrer
wahren Bedeutung, or Freemasonry in its true
significance .
The $reviarium Romanum is much more

FOUR
complete in its details than the Breviarium
Spirense ; and yet the latter contains a few
incidents that are not related in the former .
Both agree in applying to the Four Crowned
Martyrs the title of "quadratarii ." 	Now
quadratarius, in the Latin of the lower age,
signified a Stone-s q uarer or a Mason . This
will remind us of the passage in the Book of
Kings, thus translated in the authorized ver-
sion : "And Solomon's builders and Hiram's
builders did hew them, and the stone-squar-
ers ." It is evident from the use of this word
"quadratarii" in the ecclesiastical legends, as
well as from the incidents of the martyrdom
itself, that the four martyrs were not simply
sculptors, but stone-cutters and builders of
temples : in other words, Operative Masons .
Nor can we deny the probability of the sup-
position, that they were members of one of
those colleges of architects, which afterward
gave birth to the gilds of the Middle Ages,
the corporations of builders, and through these
to the modern Lodges of Freemasons . Sup-
posing the le g end to be true, or even admitting
that it is only symbolical, we must acknowl-
edge that there has been good reason why the
Operative Masons should have selected these
martyrs as the patron saints of their profes-
sion .
And now let us apply ourselves to the
legend . Taking the Roman Breviary as the
groundwork, and only interpolating it at the
proper points with the additional incidents
related in the Breviary of Spire, we have the
followin g result as the story of the Four
Crowned Martyrs .
In the last quarter of the third century
Diocletian was emperor of the Roman Em-
pire . 	In his reign commenced that series
of persecutions of the Christian church which
threatened at one time to annihilate the new
religion, and gave to the period among Chris-
tain writers the name of the Era of Martyrs .
Thousands of Christians, who refused to vio-
late their consciences by sacrificing to the
heathen gods, became the victims of the
bigotry and intolerance, the hatred and the
cruelty, of the Pagan priests and the Platonic
philosophers ; and the scour g e, the cross, or the
watery grave daily testified to the constancy
and firmness of the disciples of the prophet of
Nazareth .
Diocletian had gone to the province of
Pannonia, that he might b y his own presence
superintend the bringing of metals and stones
from the neighboring mines of Noricum
wherewith to construct a temple consecrated
to the sun-god, Apollo . Among the six hun-
dred and twenty-two artisans whom he had
collected together for this purpose were four-
by name Claudius, Castorius, Sym p horianus,
and Nichostratus-said to have been dis-
tinguished for their skill as Stonemasons .
They had abandoned the old heathen faith
and were in secret Christians, doing all their
work as Masons in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ .
The Breviary of Spires relates here an addi-
tional occurrence, which is not contained in
FOUR 	273
the Breviary of Rome, and which, as giving a
miraculous aspect to the legend, must have
made it doubly acceptable to the pious Chris-
tians of the fifteenth century, upon whose
religious credulity one could safely draw with-
out danger of a protest .
It seems that, in company with our four
blessed martyrs, there worked one Simplicius,
who was also a Mason but a heathen . While
he was employed in labor near them, he won-
dered to see how much they surpassed in skill
and cunning all the other artisans . They
succeeded in all that they attempted, while
he was unfortunate, and always breaking his
working tools . At last he approached Clau-
dius and said to him :
"strengthen, I beseech thee, my tools, that
they may no longer break ."
Claudius took them in his hands, and said :
"In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ be
these tools henceforth strong and faithful to
their work ."
From this time, Simplicius did his work
well, and succeeded in all that he attempted
to do . Amazed at the chan g e, Simplicius
was continually asking his fellow-workmen
how it was that the tools had been so strength-
ened that now they never broke . At length
Claudius replied :
"God, who is our Creator, and the Lord of
all things has made his creatures strong ."
Then gimplicius in q uired :
"Was not this done by the God Zeus?"
To this Claudius replied :
"Repent, 0 m y brother, of what thou hast
said, for thou hast blasphemed God, our
Creator, whom alone we worship ; that which
our own hands have made we do not recognize
as a God ."
With these and such sentences they con-
verted Simplicius to the Christian faith, who,
being baptized by Cyrillus, bishop of Antioch,
soon afterward suffered martyrdom for his re-
fusal to sacrifice to the Pagan gods .
But to return from this e p isode to the legend
of the Four Martyrs : It happened that one
day Diocletian issued an order, that out of a
piece of marble should be constructed a noble
statue of Apollo sitting in his chariot . And
now all the workmen and the philosophers be-
gan to consult on the subject, and each one
had arrived at a different opinion .
And when at length they had found a huge
block of stone, which had been brought from
the Island of Tkasos, it proved that the marble
was not fit for the statue which Diocletian
had commanded ; and now began a great war
of words between the masters of the work and
the philosophers . But one day the whole of
the artisans, six hundred and twenty-two in
number, with five philosophers, came to-
gether, that they might examine the defects
and the veins of the stone, and there arose a
still more wonderful contest between the
workmen and the philosophers .
Then began the philosophers to rail against
Claudius, Symphorianus, Nichostratus, and
Simplicius, and said
"Why do ye not hearken to the commands

274 	FOUR
of our devout emperor, Diocletian, and obey
his will ."
And Claudius answered and said :
" Because we cannot offend our Creator and
commit a sin, whereof we should be found
guilty in his sight ."
Then said the philosophers :
"From this it appears that you are Chris-
ti ans ."
And Claudius replied :
"Truly we are Christians ."
Hereupon the philosophers 	chose other
Masons and caused them to make a statue
of EsQapius out of the stone which had been
rejected, which, after thirty-one days, they
finished and presented to the philosophers .
These then informed the emperor that the
statue of Esculapius was finished, when he
ordered it to be brought before him for in-
spection . But as soon as he saw it he was
greatly astonished, and said :
"This is a proof of the skill of these men,
who receive my approval as sculptors ."
It is very apparent that this, like all other
legends of the church, is insufficient in its de-
tails, and that it leaves many links in the
chain of the narrative to be supplied by the
fancy or the judgment of the readers . 	It is
equally evident from what has already been
said, in connection with what is subsequently
told, that the writer of the legend desired to
make the impression that it was through the
influence of Claudius and the other Christian
Masons that the rest of the workmen were
persuaded that the Thasian stone was defec-
tive and unfit for the use of a sculptor ; that
this was done by them because they were un-
willing to engage in the construction of the
statue of a Pagan god ; that this was the cause
of the controversy between the workmen and
the philosophers ; that the latter denied the
defectiveness of the stone ; and, lastly, that
they sought to prove its fitness by causing
other Masons, who were not Christians, to
make out of it a statue of Esculapius . 	These
explanations are necessary to an understand-
ing of the legend, which proceeds as follows :
As soon as Diocletian had expressed his
admiration of the statue of Esculapius, the
philosopher said :
" Most mighty Cnsar, know that these men
whom your majesty has praised for their skill
in Masonry, namely, Claudius, Symphorianus,
Nichostratus, and Castorius, are Christians,
and by magic spells or incantations make men
obedient to their will ."
Then said Diocletian :
"If they have violated the laws, and if
your accusations be true let them suffer the
punishment of sacrilege?
But Diocletian, in consideration of their
skill, sent for the Tribune Lampadius, and
said to him :
"If they refuse to offer sacrifice to the sun-
god Apollo, then let them be scourged with
scorpions . But if they are willing to do so,
then treat them with kindness ."
For five days sat Lampadius in the same
place, before the temple of the sun-god, and
FOUR
called on them by the proclamation of the
herald, and showed them many dreadful
things, and all sorts of instruments for the
punishment of martyrs, and then he said to
them :
"Hearken to me and avoid the doom of
martyrs, and be obedient to the mighty
prince, and offer a sacrifice to the sun-god,
for no , longer can I speak, to you in gentle
words ."
But Claudius replied for himself and for
his companions with great boldness :
"This let the Emperor Diocletian know :
that we truly are Christians, and never can
depart from the worship of our God ."
Thereupon the Tribune Lampadius, be-
coming enraged, caused them to be stripped
and to be scourged with scorpions, while a
herald, by proclamation, announced that this
was done because they had disobeyed the
commands of the emperor . 	In the same hour
Lampadius, being seized by an evil spirit, died
on his seat of judgment .
As soon as the wife and the domestics of
Lampadius heard of his death, they ran with
great outcries to the palace . 	Diocletian,
when he had learned what had happened,
ordered four leaden coffins to be made, and
that-Claudius and his three companions
being placed therein alive-they should be
thrown into the river Danube. This order
Nicetius, the assistant of Lampadius, caused
to be obeyed, and thus the faithful Masons
suffered the penalty and gained the crown of
martyrdom .
There are some legend books which give
the names of the Four Crowned Martyrs as
Severus, Severianus, Carpophorus, and Vic-
torinus, and others again which speak of
five confessors who, a few years afterward,
suffered martyrdom for refusing to sacrifice
to the Pagan gods, and whose names being
at the time unknown, Pope Melchiades
caused them to be distinguished in the church
calendar as the Four Crowned Martyrs : an
error, says Jacob de Voragine, which, although
subsequently discovered, was never corrected .
But the true legend of the Four Crowned
Martyrs is that which has been given above
from the best authority, the Roman Breviary
of 1474 .
"On the other side of the Esquiline," says
Mrs . Jameson (in her Sacred and Legendary
Art, vol . ii ., p . 624), "and on the road leading
from the Coliseum to the Lateran, surmount-
ing a heap of sand and ruins, we come to the
church of the ` Quattro Coronati,' the Four
Crowned Brothers . On this spot, some time
in the fourth century, were found the bodies
of four men who had suffered decapitation,
whose names being then unknown, they were
merely distinguished as CORONATI, crowned-
that is, with the crown of martyrdom ."
There is great obscurity and confusion in
the history of these .
Their church, Mrs . Jameson goes on to say,
is held in particular respect by the builders
and stone-cutters of Rome . 	She has found
allusion to these martyr Masons not only in

FOUR
Roman art, but in the old sculpture and
stained glass of Germany . Their e i, _.'es, she
tells us, are easily distinguished by tee fact,
that they stand in a row, bearing palms, with
crowns upon their heads and various Masonic
implements at their feet-such as the rule,
the square, the mallet, and the chisel .
They suffered death on the 8th of November,
287, and hence in the Roman Catholic missal
that day is dedicated to their commemoration .
From their profession as Stonemasons and
from the pious firmness with which they re-
fused, at the cost of their lives, to consecrate
their skill in their art to the construction of
Pagan temples, they have been adopted by
the Stonemasons of Germany as the Patron
Saints of Operative Masonry . 	Thus the oldest
regulation of the Stonemasons of Strasburg,
which has the date of the year 1459, com-
mences with the following invocation : "In
the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of
the Holy Ghost, and of our gracious Mother
Mary and also of her Blessed Servants,
the Pour Crowned Martyrs of everlasting
memory ."
Such allusions are common in the German
Masonic documents of the Middle Ages . It
is true, however, that the English Masons
ceased at a later period to refer in their Con-
stitutions to those martyrs, although they un-
doubtedly borrowed many of their usages
from Germany . Yet the Regius Manuscript
of the Constitutions of Masonry, the oldest of
the English Records, which is supposed to
have been written about the year 1390, under
the title of "Ars Quatuor Coronatorum," gives
a rather copious detail of the legend, which is
here inserted with only those slight alterations
of its antiquated phraseology which are neces-
sary to render it intelligible to modern readers,
although in doing so the rhyme of the original
is somewhat destroyed :
"Pray we now to God Almighty,
And to His Mother, Mary bright,
That we may keep these articles here
And these points well altogether,
As did those holy martyrs four
That in this Craft were of great honour .
They were as good Mason as on earth shall go,
Gravers and image makers they were also,
For they were workmen of the best,
The emperor had them in great liking ;
He willed of them an image to make,
That might be worshiped for his sake ;
Such idols he had in his day
To turn the people from Christ's law,
But they were steadfast in Christ's law
And to their Craft, without denial ;
They loved well God and all his lore,
And were in his service evermore .
True men they were, in that day,
And lived well in God's law ;
They thought no idols for to make,
For no good that they might take ;
To believe on that idol for their god,
They would not do so, though he were mad,
For they would not forsake their true faith,
And believe on his false law .
The emperor caused to take them at once
And put them in a deep prison .
The sorer he punished them in that place,
The more joy was to them of Christ's grace .
FOUR 	275
Then when he saw no other one,
To death he let them then go .
Who so will of their life more know,
By the book he may it show,
In the legends of the saints,
The names of the four crowned ones .
Their feast will be, without denial,
After All Hallows, the eighth day ."
(vv . 497-534 .)
The devotion of these saints, which led to
the introduction of their legend into an an-
cient Constitution of Masonry, shows how
much they were reverenced by the Craft .
In fact ., the Four Crowned Martyrs were to
the Stone-cutters of Germany and to the
earlier Operative Masons of England what
St . John the Baptist and St . John the Evan-
gelist became to their successors, the Specula-
tive Freemasons of the eighteenth century .
[From them the famous literary Lodge-the
Quatuor Coronati, of London, England-has
been so named .]
Fourfold Cord . In the ritual of the Past
Master's Degree in America we find the fol-
lowing expression : "A twofold cord is strong,
a threefold cord is stronger, but a fourfold
cord is not easily broken ." The expression is
taken from a Hebrew proverb which is to be
found in the Book of Ecclesiastes (iv . 12) :
"And if one prevail against him, two shall
withstand him ; and a threefold cord is not
quickly broken ." The form of the Hebrew
proverb has been necessarily changed to suit
the symbolism of the degree .
Four New Years . 	According to the Tal-
mud there were four New Years . The first of .
Nisan was the new year for kings and festivals ;
the reign of a king was calculated from this
date . The first of Elul was a new year for the
tithing of cattle . The first of Tishri was a
new year for civil years, for years of release,
jubilees, and planting . 	The first of Shebat
was a new year for the tithing of trees .
"Four Old Lodges ." 	Of the four old
Lodges which constituted the Grand Lodge of
England, on St . John the Baptist's day, 1717,
the "Lodge of Antiquity," No . 2, London, was
the first . The Lodge meets by "Time Im-
memorial Constitution," having no warrant,
and, until the "Union," was first on the
roll ; a decision, however, by ballot, lost it its
numerical priority . As Lodges were known
by the house in which they met, Antiquity
Lodge was designated "The West India and
American ."
"The Royal Somerset House and Inverness,"
No . 4, London, is the junior of the four
Lodges which constituted the Grand Lodge .
At that time it met at the "Rummer and
Grapes" Tavern, Westminster, and subse-
quently at the "Horn," which latter gave the
Lodge a name for many years . This Lodge
now represents three united Lodges, the names
of two of which are to be found in its present
designation .
Of the four "original" Lodges, two only
have been on the roll from 1740 as of "Time
Immemorial 	Constitution ." The original
"No . 2" ceased working about 1736 and

276 	FOURTEEN
was erased in 1740, and "No . 3" accepted a
"New Constitution" (now No . 12) and is
known as "Fortitude and Cumberland ."
The four original Lodges, after the issue of
the "Regulations" of 1723, simply enjoyed the
advantage of being ahead of all the Warrant
Lodges, the privilege of assembling by "Time
Immemorial Constitution," and the honor of
having established the first Grand Lodge in
the universe . (See Freemasonry, Early Brit-
ish .)
Fourteen . It is only necessary to remind
the well-informed Mason of the fourteen days
of burial mentioned in the legend of the Third
Degree . Now, this period of fourteen was not
in the opinion of Masonic symbologists, an
arbitrary selection, but was intended to refer
to or symbolize the fourteen days of lunary
darkness, or decreasing light, which intervene
between the full moon and its continued de-
crease until the end of the lunar month . In
the Egyptian mysteries, the body of Osiris
is said to have been cut into fourteen pieces by
Typhon, and thrown into the Nile . Plutarch
speaking of this in his treatise On Isis aru
Osiris, thus explains the symbolism of the
number fourteen, which comprises the Ma-
sonic idea : "The body of Osiris was cut," says
Plutarch, "into fourteen pieces ; that is, into
as many parts as there are days between the
full moon and the new . This circumstance
has reference to the gradual diminution of the
lunary light during the fourteen days that
follow the full moon . The moon, at the end
of fourteen days, enters Taurus, and becomes
united to the sun, from whom she collects fire
upon her disk during the fourteen days which
follow . She is then found every month in
conjunction with him in the superior parts of
the signs . The equinoctial year finishes at
the moment when the sun and moon are found
united with Orion, or the star of Orus, a con-
stellation placed under Taurus, which unites
itself to the Neomenia of spring . The moon
renews herself in Taurus, and a few days after-
ward is seen, in the form of a crescent, in the
following sign, that is, Gemini, the home of
Mercury . Then Orion, united to the sun in
the attitude of a formidable warrior precipi-
tates Scorpio, his rival, into the shades of
night ; for he sets every time Orion appears
above the horizon . The day becomes length-
ened, and the germs of evil are by degrees
destroyed . It is thus that the poet Nonnus
pictures to us Typhon conquered at the end
of winter, when the sun arrives in Taurus, and
when Orion mounts into the heavens with
him! )
France . 	The early history of Masonry in
France is, from the want of authentic docu-
ments, in a state of much uncertainty . Moss,
in his Geschichte der Freimaurerei in Frank-
reich (vol . i ., p . 14) says, in reference to the
introduction of Freemasonry into that king-
dom, that the earliest date of any certainty is
1725 . Yet he copies the statement of the
Sgeau Rompu--a work published in 1745-
that the earliest recognized date of its intro-
duction is 1718 ; and the Abb6 Robin says that
FRANCE
nothing of it is to be found farther back than
1720 .
Lalande, the great astronomer, was the au-
thor of the article on Freemasonry in the
Encyclopedia Methodique, and his account has
been generally recognized as authentic by
succeeding writers . According to him, Lord
Derwentwater, the Chevalier Maskeleyne,
Mr . Heguetty, and some other Englishmen
(the names being corrupted, of course, accord-
ing to French usage), founded, in 1725, the
first Lodge in Paris . It was held at the house
of an English confectioner named Hure, in the
Rue de Boucheries . In ten years the number
of Lodges in Paris had increased to six, and
there were several also in the provincial towns .
As the first Paris Lodge had been opened
by Lord Derwentwater, he was regarded as
the Grand Master of the French Masons,
without any formal recognition on the part
of the brethern, at least until 1736, when the
six Lodges of Paris formally elected Lord
Harnouester as Provincial Grand Master* ;
in 1738, he was succeeded by the Duke
d'Antin ; and on the death of the Duke, in
1743, the Count de Clermont was elected to
supply his place .
Organized Freemasonry in France dates
its existence from this latter year . In 1735
the Lodges of Paris had petitioned the Grand
Lodge of England for the establishment of a
Provincial Grand Lodge, which, on political
grounds, had been refused . In 1743, how-
ever, it was granted, and the Provincial
Grand Lodge of France was constituted under
the name of the "Grand Loge Anglaise de
France ." The Grand Master, the Count de
Clermont, was, however, an inefficient officer ;
anarchy and confusion once more invaded the
Fraternity ; the authority of the Grand Lodge
was prostrated ; and the establishment of
Mother Lodges in the provinces, with the
original intention of superintending the pro-
ceedings of the distant provincial Lodges, in-
stead of restoring harmony, as was vainly ex-
pected, widened still more the breach . For,
assuming the rank and exercising the functions
of Grand Lodges, they ceased all correspond-
ence with the metropolitan body, and became
in fact its rivals .
Under these circumstances, the Grand
Lodge declared itself independent of England
in 1755, and assumed the title of the "Grande
Loge de France ." It recognized only the three
degrees of Apprentice, Fellow-Craft, and Mas-
ter Mason, and was composed of the Grand
Officers to be elected out of the body of the
Fraternity, and of the Masters for life of the
Parisian Lodges ; thus formally excluding the
provincial Lodges from any participation in
the government of the Craft .
But the proceedings of this body were not
less stormy than those of its predecessor .
The Count de Clermont appointed, in suc-
* Bro . R. F . Gould, in his Concise History of
Freemasonry (p . 355), considers that the name
" Harnouester " is probably a corruption of "Der-
wentwater,"

FRANCE
cession, two deputies, both of whom had been
displeasing to the Fraternity . The last
Lacorne, was a man of such low origin an
rude manners, that the Grand Lodge refused
to meet him as their presiding officer . Irri-
tated at this pointed disrespect, he sought in
the taverns of Paris those Masters who had
made a traffic of initiations, but who, hereto-
fore, had submitted to the control, and been
checked by the authority of, the Grand Lodge .
From among them he selected officers devoted
to his service, and undertook a complete re-
organization of the Grand Lodge .
The retired members, however, protested
against these illegal proceedings ; and in the
subsequent year, the Grand Master consented
to revoke the authority he had bestowed upon
Lacorne, and appointed as his deputy, M .
Chaillou de Jonville . The respectable mem-
bers now returned to their seats in the Grand
Lodge ; and in the triennial election which took
place in June, 1765 the officers who had been
elected during the Deputy Grand Mastership
of Lacorne were all removed . The displaced
officers protested, and published a defamatory
memoir on the subject, and were in conse-
quence expelled from Masonry by the Grand
Lodge . 	Ill feeling on both sides was thus
engendered, and carried to such a height,
that, at one of the communications of the
Grand Lodge, the expelled brethren, attempt-
ing to force their way in, were resisted with
violence . The next day the lieutenant of
police issued an edict forbidding the future
meetings of the Grand' Lodge .
The expelled party, however, still con-
tinued their meetings . The Count de Cler-
mont died in 1771 ; and the excluded brethren
having invited the Duke of Chartres (after-
ward Duke of Orleans) to the Grand Master-
ship, he accepted the appointment . They
now offered to unite with the Grand Lodge,
on condition that the latter would revoke the
decree of expulsion . The proposal was ac-
cepted, and the Grand Lodge went once more
into operation .
Another union took place, which has since
considerably influenced the character of
French Masonry . During the troubles of the
preceding years, Masonic bodies were in-
stituted in various parts of the kingdom,
which professed to confer degrees of a higher
nature than those belonging to Craft Masonry,
and which have since been known by the name
of the High Degrees . These Chapters as-
sumed a right to organize and control Sym-
bolic or Blue Lodges, and this assumption has
been a fertile source of controversy between
them and the Grand Lodge . By the latter
body they had never been recognized, but the
Lodges under their direction had often been
declared irregular, and their members expelled .
They now, however, demanded a recognition,
and proposed, if their request was complied
with, to bestow the government of the "hautes
grades" upon the same person who was at the
head of the Grand Loge . The compromise
was made, the recognition was decreed, and
the Duke of Chartres was elected Grand Mas-
FRANCE 	277
ter of all the Councils, Chapters, and Scotch
Lodges of France .
But peace was not yet restored . The party
who had been expelled, moved by a spirit of
revenge for the disgrace formerly inflicted on
them, succeeded in obtaining the appointment
of a committee which was empowered to pre-
pare the new Constitution . All the Lodges of
Paris and the provinces were requested to ap-
point deputies, who were to form a convention
to take the new CQnstitution into considera-
tion . 	This convention, or, as they called it,
National Assembly, met at Paris in December
1771 . The Duke of Luxemburg presided, and
on the twenty-fourth of that month the An-
cient Grand Lodge of France was declared
extinct, and in its place another substituted
with the title of Grand Orient de France .
Notwithstanding the declaration of extinc-
tion by the National Assembly, the Grand
Lodge continued to meet and to exercise its
functions . Thus the Fraternity of France
continued to be harassed, by the bitter con-
tentions of these rival bodies, until the com-
mencement of the revolution compelled both
the Grand Orient and the Grand Lodge to
suspend their labors .
On the restoration of civil order, both bodies
resumed their operations, but the Grand
Lodge had been weakened by the death of
many of the perpetual Masters, who had
originally been attached to it ; and a better
spirit arising, the Grand Lodge was, by a
solemn and mutual declaration, united to the
Grand Orient on the 28th of June, 1799 .
Dissensions, however, continued to arise
between the Grand Orient and the different
Chapters of the high degrees . Several of those
bodies had at various periods given in their
adhesion to the Grand Orient, and again vio-
lated the compact of peace . Finally, the
Grand Orient, perceiving that the pretensions
of the Scottish Rite Masons would be a per-
petual source of disorder, decreed on the 16th
of September, 1805, that the Supreme Coun-
cil of the Thirty-third Degree should thence-
forth become an independent body, with the
power to confer warrants of constitution for all
the degrees superior to the Eighteenth, or Rose
Croix ; while the Chapters of that and the in-
ferior degrees were placed under the exclusive
control of the Grand Orient .
But the concordat was not faithfully ob-
served by either party, and dissensions
continued to exist with intermittent and
unsuccessful attempts at reconciliation, which
was, however, at last effected in some sort in
1841 . The Masonic obedience of France is
now divided between the two bodies, and the
Grand Orient and the Supreme Council now
both exist as independent powers in French
Masonry . The constant tendency of the for-
mer to interfere in the administration of other
countries would furnish an unpleasant history
for the succeeding thirty years, at last ter-
minated by the refusal of all the Grand Lodges
in the United States, and some in Europe, to
hold further Masonic communication with it ;
a breach which every good Mason must desire

278 	FRANCIS
to see eventually healed . One of the most
extraordinary acts of the Grand Orient of
France has been the abolition in 1871 of the
office of Grand Master, the duties being per-
formed by the President of the Council of the
Order .
Discussion and an attempted avoidance of a
threatening Masonic calamity by a large num-
ber of the Fraternity of France did not avail to
prevent the General Assembl of the Grand
Orient of France from competing its over-
throw and that of its subordinates by the
almost unanimous adoption of the now famous
amendment of Art . I . of the Constitution of
Masonry, on September 14, 1877 .
The following is the text of the amendment
and of the original second paragraph which
was expunged :
Orip;inal paragraph : "Freemasonry has for
its principles the existence of God, the im-
mortality of the soul, and the solidarity of
mankind "
Substituted amendment : "Whereas, Free-
masonry is not a religion, and has therefore no
doctrine or dogma to affirm in its Constitution,
the Assembly adopting the Vaeu IX ., has
decided and decreed that the second para-
graph of Article I . of the Constitution shall be
erased, and that for the words of the said
article the following shall be substituted : I .
Being an institution essentially philanthropic,
philosophic, and progressive, Freemasonry
has for its object, search after truth, study of
universal morality, sciences and arts, and the
practice of benevolence . It has for its
principles, absolute liberty of conscience and
human solidarity, it excludes no person on
account of his belief and its motto is Liberty,
Equality, and Fraternity ."
The adoption of the above was after a full
and deliberate consideration by its constit-
uents, who for more than a year were in the
throes of deep deliberation and judgment .
[The Grand Lodge of England appointed a
committee to consider this action of the Grand
Orient in thus expunging the existence of
T . G. A. O. T. U . from its tenets, and they
reported that such alteration is "opposed to
the traditions, practice and feelings of all true
and genuine Masons from the earliest to the
present time" ; and it was resolved that foreign
brethren could only be received as visitors if
they had been initiated in a Lodge professing
belief in T . G . A . O . T . U ., and would them-
selves acknowledge such belief to be an
essential landmark of the Order . Similar
action was taken by other Grand Lodges, and
wherever the English language is spoken the
Grant Orient of France is no longer regarded
as a Masonic body . E . L . . H]
Francis H ., Emperor of Germany, was a
bitter enemy of Freemasonry . In 1789, he
ordered all the Lodges in his dominions to be
closed, and directed all civil and military
functionaries to take an oath never to unite
with any secret society, under pain of ex-
emplary punishment and destitution of office .
In 1794, he proposed to the diet of Ratisbon
the suppression of the Freemasons, the Illumi-
FRANKLIN
nati, and all other secret societies . The diet,
controlled by the influence of Prussia, Bruns-
wick, and Hanover, refused to accede to the
proposition, replying to the emperor that he
might interdict the Lodges in his own states .
but that others claimed Germanic liberty .
In 1801, he renewed his opposition to secret
societies, and especially to the Masonic
Lodges, and all civil, military, and ecclesiasti-
cal functionaries were restrained from taking
any part in them under the penalty of forfeit-
ing their offices .
Francken, Henry A . The first Deputy
Inspector General appointed by Stephen
Morin, under his commission from the Em-
perors of the East and West . Francken re-
ceived his degrees and his appointment at
Kingston, Jamaica . The date is not known,
but it must have been between 1762 and 1767 .
Francken soon afterward repaired to the
United States, where he gave the appointment
of a Deputy to Moses M . Hayes, at Boston,
and organized a council of Princes of Jerusalem
at Albany . He may be considered as the first
propagator of the high degrees in the United
States .
Franc-Macon, Franc-Magonnerle . The
French names of Freemason and of Freema-
sonry . 	The construction of these words is not
conformable to the genius or the idiom of the
French language, which would more properly
employ the terms "Macon libre," and "Ma-
9onnerie libre" ; and hence Laurens, in his
Essais historiques et critiques sur la Franc
Maconnerie, adduces their incorporation into
the language as an evidence that the Institu-
tion in France was derived directly from
England, the words being a literal and un-
idiomatic translation of the English titles .
But he blunders in supposing that Franc-
Mason and Franc-Masonry are any part of the
English language .
Frankfort-on-the-Main . 	A Provincial
Grand Lodge was established in this city, in
1766, by the Grand Lodge of England . In
the dissensions which soon after prevailed
among the Masons of Germany, the Provincial
Grand Lodge of Frankfort, not finding itself
supported by its mother Grand Lodge, de-
clared itself independent in 1783 . Since 1823,
it has worked under the title of the "Grosse
Mutterloge des Eklektischen Freimaurer-
Bandes zu Frankfurt A . M ."
It has now 21 Lodges and 9 "Circles" under
its jurisdiction .
Franklin, Benjamin . 	This sage and
patriot was born in the city of Boston, Massa-
chusetts, on the 6th of January, 1706 . He
was most probably initiated in 1731 in the St .
John's Lode at Philadelphia (Gould's Hist .
of F . M ., iii . 429 .) In 1734 he was elected
Grand Master of the Provincial Grand Lodge
of Pennsylvania ; and in November of the
same year Franklin applied to Henry Price,
who had received from England authority
to establish Masonry in this country, for a
confirmation of those powers conferred by
the first deputation or warrant . It is prob-
able that the request was granted, although

FRANKS
no record of the fact can be found . In 1734,
Franklin edited an edition of Anderson's Con-
stitutions, which was probably the first Ma-
sonic work published in America .
In 1743 Thomas Oxnard was appointed Pro-
vincial Grand Master of all North America
and he appointed Franklin Provincial Gram
Master of Pennsylvania .
While Franklin was in France as the Am-
bassador from this country, he appears to
have taken much interest in Masonry . He
affiliated with the celebrated Lodge of the
Nine Sisters, of which Lalande, Count de
Gebelin, and other celebrities of French litera-
ture, were members . He took a prominent
part in the initiation of Voltaire, and on his
death acted as Senior Warden of the Lodge
of Sorrow held in his memory . The Lodge
of the Nine Sisters held Franklin in such
esteem that it struck a medal in his honor, of
which a copy, supposed to be the only one
now in existence, belongs to the Provincial
Grand Lodge of Mecklenburg . [E . L . H .]
Franks, Order of Regenerated . 	A polit-
tical brotherhood that was instituted in
France in 1815, flourished for a while, and
imitated in its ceremonies the Masonic
fraternity .
Frater . 	Latin, Brother . A term bor-
rowed from the monks by the Military Orders
of the Middle Ages, and applied by the mem-
bers to each other . It is constantly employed
in England by the Masonic Knights Templays,
and is beginning to be adopted, although not
very generally,, in the United States . When
speaking of two or more, it is an error of
ignorance, sometimes committed, to call them
fraters . The correct plural is fratres .
Fraternally . 	The usual mode of sub-
scription to letters written by one Mason to
another is, "I remain, fraternally, yours ."
Fraternity . 	The word was originally used
to designate those associations formed m the
Roman Catholic Church for the pursuit of
special religious and ecclesiastical purposes,
such as the nursing of the sick, the support of
the poor, the practise of particular devotions,
etc . They do not date earlier than the thir-
teenth century . The name was subsequently
applied to secular associations, such as the
Freemasons . The word is only a Latin form
of the Anglo-Saxon Brotherhood .
In the earliest lectures of the last century
we find the word fraternity alluded to in the
following formula :
"Q . How many particular points pertain
to a Freemason?
"A . Three : Fraternity, Fidelity, and Taci-
turnity .
"Q . What do they represent?
"A . Brotherly Love, Relief, and Truth
among all Right Masons ."
Fraternize . 	To recognize as a brother ; to
associate with Masonically .
Frederick of Nassau . 	Prince Frederick,
son of the King of the Netherlands, and for
many years the Grand Master of the National
Grand Lodge of that kingdom . He was am-
bitious of becoming a Masonic reformer, and
FREDERICK 	279
in addition to his connection with the Charter
of Cologne, an account of which has been
given under that head, he attempted, in 1819,
to introduce a new Rite . He denounced the
high degrees as being contrary to the true
intent of Masonry ; and in a circular to all the
Lodges under the obedience of the National
Grand Lodge, he proposed a new system, to
consist of five degrees, namely, the three
symbolic, and two more as complements or
illustrations of the third, which he called
Elect Master and Supreme Elect Master .
Some few Lodges adopted this new system
but most of them rejected it . The Grand
Chapter, whose existence it had attacked,
denounced it . The Lodges practising it in
Belgium were dissolved in 1830, but a few of
them probably still remain in Holland . The
full rituals of the two supplementary degrees
are printed in the second volume of Hermes,
and an attentive perusal of them does not give
an exalted idea of the inventive genius of the
Prince .
Frederick the 	Great . 	Frederick II .,
King of Prussia, surnamed the Great, was born
on the 24th of January, 1712, and died on the
17th of August, 1786, at the age of seventy-
four years and a few months . He was initi-
ated as a Mason, at Brunswick, on the night
of the 14th of August, 1738, not quite two
years before he ascended the throne .
In English, we have two accounts of this
initiation,-one by Campbell, in his work on
Frederick the Great and his Times and the
other by Carlyle in his History of Frederick
the Second . 	Both are substantially the same,
because both are merely translations of the
original account given by Bielfeld in his
Freundschaftliche Briefe, or Familiar Letters .
The Baron von Bielfeld was, at the time,
an intimate companion of the Prince, and was
present at the initiation .
Bielfeld tells us that in a conversation
which took place on the 6th of August at Loo
(but Carlyle corrects him as to time and
place, and says it probably occurred at Min-
den, on the 17th of July), the Institution of
Freemasonry had been enthusiastically lauded
b~y the Count of Lippe Buckeburg . The
Crown Prince soon after privately expressed
to the Count his wish to join the society . Of
course, this wish was to be gratified . The
necessary furniture and asistance for confer-
ring the degrees were obtained from the Lodge
at Hamburg . Biefeld gives an amusing ac-
count of the embarrassments which were
encountered in passing the chest containing
the Masonic implements through the custom-
house without detection . Campbell, quoting
from Bielfeld, says :
"The whole of the 14th (August) was spent
in pre 	ations for the Lodge, and at twelve
at ni 	t the Prince Royal arrived, accom-
pani 	by Count Wartensleben, a captain in
the king's regiment at Potsdam . The Prince
introduced him to us as a candidate whom he
very warmly recommended, and begged that he
might be admitted immediately after himself .
At the same time, he desired that he might be

280 	FREDERICK
treated like any private individual, and that
none of the usual ceremonies might be altered
on his account . Accordingly, he was ad-
mitted in the customary form, and I could not
sufficiently admire his fearlessness his com-
posure, and his address . After the double
reception, a Lodge was held . All was over by
four in the morning, and the Prince returned
to the ducal palace, apparently as well pleased
with us as we were charmed with him ."
Of the truth of this account there never
has been any doubt . Frederick the Great was
certainly a Mason . But Carlyle, in his usual
sarcastic vein, adds : "The Crown Prince
prosecuted his Masonry at Reinsberg or else-
where, occasionally, for a year or two, but was
never ardent in it, and very soon after his
accession left off altogether . . 	. A Royal
Lodge was established at Berlin, of which the
new king consented to be patron ; but he never
once entered the palace, and only his portrait
(a welcomely good one, still to be found there)
presided over the mysteries of that establish-
ment ."
Now how much of truth with the sarcasm,
and how much of sarcasm without the truth,
there is in this remark of Carlyle, is just what
the Masonic world is bound to discover .
Until further light is thrown upon the subject
by documentary evidence from the Prussian
Lodges, the question can not be definitely
answered . But what is the now known fur-
ther Masonic history of Frederick?
Bielf eld tells us that the zeal of the Prince f or
the Fraternity induced him to invite the Baron
Von Oberg and himself to Reinsberg, where,
in 1739 they founded a Lodge, into which
Keyserling, Jordan, Moolendorf, Queis, and
Fredersdorf (Frederick's valet) were admitted .
M
y
Bielfeld is again our authority for stating
that on the 20th of June, 1740, King Fred-
erick-for he had then ascended the throne-
held a Lodge at Charlottenburg, and, as
Master in the chair, initiated Prince William
of Prussia, his brother the Margrave Charles
of Brandenburg and Frederick William, Duke
of Holstein . The Duke of Holstein was seven
ears afterward elected Adjutant Grand
aster of the Grand Lodge of the Three
Globes at Berlin .
We hear no more of Frederick's Masonry
in the printed records until the 16th of July,
1774, when he granted hisprotection to the
National Grand Lodge of Germany, and of-
ficially approved of the treaty with the Grand
Lodge of England, by which the National
Grand Lodge was established . In the year
1777, the Mother Lodge, "Royal York of
Friendship," at Berlin, celebrated, by a festi-
val, the king's birthday, on which occasion
Frederick wrote the following letter, which, as
it is the only printed declaration ofhis opinion
of Freemasonry that is now extant, is well
worth copying :
"I cannot but be sensible of the new homage
of the Lodge `Royal York of Friendship' on
the occasion of the anniversary of my birth,
bearing, as it does, the evidence of its zeal and
attachment for my person . Its orator has
FREE
well expressed the sentiments which animate
all its labors ; and a society which employs it-
self only in sowing the seed and bringing forth
the fruit of every kind of virtue in my demin-
ions may always be assured of my protection .
It is the glorious task of every good sovereign
and I will never cease to fulfil it . And so I
pray God to take you and your Lodge under
his holy and deserved protection . Potsdam,
this 14th of February 1777-Frederick ."
Frederick Henry Louis, * Prince of Prussia,
was received into Masonry at Berlin by
Frederick the Great, his brother, in 1740 .
Frederick William III . King of Prussia,
and, although not a Freemason, a generous
patron of the Order . On December 29 1797,
he wrote to the Lodge Royal York of F&iend-
ship, at Berlin, these words : "I have never
been initiated, as every one knows, but I am
far from conceiving the slightest distrust of the
intentions of the members of the Lodge . I
believe that its design is noble, and founded
on the cultivation of virtue ; that its methods
are legitimate, and that every political ten-
dency is banished from its operations . Hence
I shall take pleasure in manifesting on all
occasions my good-will and my affection to
the Lodge Royal York of Friendship, as well
as to every other Lodge in my dominions ."
In a similar tone of kindness toward Masonry,
he wrote three months afterward to Fessler .
And when he issued, October 20, 1798, an
edict forbidding secret societies, he made a
special exemption in favor of the Masonic
Lodges . To the time of his death, he was
always the avowed friend of the Order .
Free . 	The word "free," in connection
with "Mason," originally signified that the
person so called was free of the company or
gild of incorporated Masons . For those
Operative Masons who were not thus made
free of the gild, were not permitted to work
with those who were . A similar regulation
still exists in many parts of Europe, although
it is not known to this country . The term
appears to have been first thus used in the
tenth century, when the traveling Freemasons
were incorporated by the Roman Pontiff .
(See Traveling Freemasons .)
In reference to the other sense of free as
meaning not bound, not in captivity, it is a rule
of Masonry that no one can be initiated who
is at the time restrained of his liberty .
The Grand Lodge of England extends this
doctrine, that Masons should be free in all
their thoughts and actions, so far, that it will
not permit the initiation of a candidate who is
*Frederick did not in his latter days take the
active interest in Masonry that had distin-
guished his early life before coming to the
throne . It cannot be established that he ever
attended a meeting after he became king, though
many such efforts have been attempted . Some
over-zealous persons have claimed that he es-
tablished the A . and A .S .R . of the Thirty-third
Degree, but the Grand Lodge of the Three
Globes at Berlin, as well as many European
historians, have often shown this to have been
impossible . 	(E . E . C,]

FREE
only temporarily in a place of confinement . In
the year 1783, the Master of the Royal Mili-
tary Lodge at Woolwich (No . 371) being con-
fined, most probably for debt, in the King's
Bench prison, at London, the Lodge, which
was itinerant in its character and allowed to
move from place to place with its regiment,
adjourned, with its warrant of Constitution,
to the Master in prison, where several Masons
were made . The Grand Lodge, being in-
formed of the circumstances, immediately
summoned the Master and Wardens of the
Lodge "to answer for their conduct in making
Masons in the King's Bench prison," and, at
the same time, adopted a resolution, affirming
that "it is inconsistent with the _principles of
Masonry for any Freemasons' odge to be
held, for the purposes of making, passing, or
raising Masons, in any prison or place of con-
finement ." 	(Constitutions, 1784, p . 349 .)
Free and Accepted . 	The title" Free and
Accepted" first occurs in the Roberts Print of
1722, which is headed The Old Constitutions
belonging to the Ancient and Honourable Society
of Free and Accepted Masons, and was adopted
by Dr . Anderson in the second edition of the
Book of Constitutions, published in 1738, the
title of which is The New Book of Constitu-
tions of the Antient and Honourable Fraternity
of Free and Accepted Masons . 	In the first
edition of 1723 the title was, The Constitu-
tions of the Freemasons . 	The newer title con-
tinued to be used by the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, in which it was followed by those of Scot-
land and Ireland ; and a majority of the Grand
Lodges in this country have adopted the same
style, and call themselves Grand Lodges of
Free and Accepted Masons . (See Accepted .)
The old lectures formerly used in England
give the following account of the origin of the
term :
"The Masons who were selected to build
the Temple of Solomon were declared FREE
and were exempted, together with their de-
scendants, from imposts, duties, and taxes .
They had also the privilege to bear arms . At
the destruction of the Temple by Nebuchad-
nezzar, the posterity of these Masons were
carried into captivity with the ancient Jews .
But the good-will of Cyrus gave them per-
mission to erect a second Temple, having set
them at liberty for that purpose. It is from
this epoch that we bear the name of Free and
Accepted Masons ."
Free Born . In all the old Constitutions,
free birth is required as a requisite to the re-
ception of Apprentices . Thus the Lansdowne
MS . says, "That the prentice be able of birth,
that is, freeborn ." So it is in the Edinburgh
Kilwinning, the York, the Antiquity, and in
every other manuscript that has been so far
discovered . And hence, the modern Consti-
tutions framed in 1721 continue the regula-
tion . After the abolition of slavery in the
West Indies by the British Parliament, the
Grand Lodge of England on September 1,
1847, changed the word "free-born" into
"freeman," but the ancient landmark never
has been removed in America .
FREEDOM 	281
The non-admission of a slave seems to have
been founded upon the best of reasons ; be-
cause, as Freemasonry involves a solemn con-
tract, no one can legally bind himself to its
performance who is not a free agent and the
master of his own actions . That the restric-
tion is extended to those who were originally
in a servile condition, but who may have since
acquired their liberty, seems to depend on the
principle that birth in a servile condition is
accompanied by a degradation of mind and
abasement of spirit which no subsequent dis .
enthralment can so completely efface as to
render the party qualified to perform his dut-
ies, as a Mason, with that "freedom, fervency,
and zeal" which are said to have distinguished
our ancient brethren . "Children," says Oliver,
"cannot inherit a free and noble spirit except
they be born of a free woman ."
The same usage existed in the spurious Free-
masonry or the mysteries of the ancient world,
There, no slave, or man born in slavery, could
be initiated ; because the prerequisites imper-
atively demanded that the candidate should
not only be a man of irreproachable manners,
but also a free-born denizen of the country in
which the mysteries were celebrated .
Some Masonic writers have thought that in
this regulation, in relation to free birth, some
allusion is intended, both in the mysteries and
in Freemasonry, to the relative conditions and
characters of Isaac and Ishmael . The former
-the accepted one, to whom the promise was
given-was the son of a free woman, and the
latter, who was cast forth to have "his hand
against every man and every man's hand
against him," was the child of a slave . Where-
fore, we read that Sarah demanded of Abra-
ham, "Cast out this bondwoman and her son ;
for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir
with my son ." Dr . Oliver, in speaking of the
grand festival with which Abraham cele-
brated the weaning of Isaac, says that be
"had not paid the same compliment at the
weaning of Ishmael, because he was the son of
a bondwoman, and consequently could not be
admitted to participate in the Freemasonry
of his father, which could only be conferred on
free men born of free women ." The ancient
Greeks were of the same opinion ; for they
used the word Souxorpeaeia, or "slave man-
ners," to designate any very great impropri-
ety of manners .
Freedom . This is defined to be a state of
exemption from, the control or power of
another . The doctrine that Masons should
enjoy unrestrained liberty, and be free in all
their thoughts and actions, is carried so far in
Masonry, that the Grand Lodge of England
will not permit the initiation of a candidate
who is only temporarily deprived of his liberty,
or even in a place of confinement . (See
Free .)
It is evident that the word freedom is used
in Masonry in a symbolical or metaphysical
sense differing from its ordinary signification . ,
While, in the application of the words free
born and freeman, we use them in their usual
legal acceptation, we combine freedom with I

282 	FREEDOM
fervency and zeal as embodying a symbolic
idea . Gadicke, under the word Freiheit, in his
Freimaurer-Lexicon, thus defines the word :
"A word that is often heard among us, but
which is restricted to the same limitation as
the freedom of social life . We have in our as-
semblies no freedom to act each one as he
pleases . But we are, or should be, free from the
dominion of passion, pride, prejudice, and all
the other follies of human nature . We are free
from the false delusion that we need not be
obedient to the laws ." Thus he makes it
equivalent to integrity ; a sense that I think it
bears in the next article .
Freedom, Fervency, and Zeal . 	The ear-
liest lectures in the eighteenth century desig-
nated freedom, fervency, and zeal as the qual-
ities which should distinguish the servitude of
Apprentices, and the same symbolism is found
in the ritual of the present day . The word
freedom is not here to be taken in its modern
sense of liberty, but rather in its primitive
Anglo-Saxon meaning of frankness, generosity,
a generous willingness to work or perform one's
duty . So Chaucer uses it in the Prologue to
the Canterbury Tales (1 . 43) :
"A knight there was, and that a worthy man,
That fro the time that he first began
To riden out, he loved chivalrie,
Trouthe and Honour, Freedom and Courtesy ."
(See Fervency and Zeal .)
Freeman . 	The Grand Lodge of England,
on September 1, 1847, erased from their list of
the qualifications of candidates the word "free-
born," and substituted for it " free-man ."
Their rule now reads, "every candidate must
be a freeman ." This has been generally consid-
ered an unauthorized violation of a landmark .
Freemason . 	One who has been initiated
into the mysteries of the Fraternity of Free-
masonry . Freemasons are so called to dis-
tinguish them from the Operative or Stone-
Masons, who constituted an inferior class of
workmen, and out of whom they sprang . (See
Stone-Masons and Traveling Freemasons .) 	The
meaning of the epithet free, as applied to
Mason, is given under the word Free . In the
old lectures of the last century a Freemason
was described as being "a freeman, born of a
freewoman, brother to a king, fellow to a
prince, or companion to a beggar, if a Mason,"
and by this was meant to indicate the univer-
sality of the brotherhood .
The word "Freemason" was until recently
divided into two words, sometimes with and
sometimes without a hyphen ; and we find
in all the old books and manuscripts " Free
Mason" or "Free-Mason ." But this usage
has been abandoned by all good writers, and
"Freemason" is now always spelled as one
word . The old Constitutions constantly used
the word Mason . Yet the word was employed
at a very early period in the parish registers of
England, and by some writers . Thus, in the
register of the parish of Astbury we find these
items :
"1685 . Smallwood, Jos ., fils Jos . Henshaw,
Freemason, bapt . 3° die Nov .
FREEMASON
"1697 . Jos . fil Jos . Henshaw, Freemason,
buried 7 April ."
But the most singular passage is one found
in Cawdray's Treasurie of Similies, published
in 1609, and which he copied from Bishop
Coverdale's translation of Werdmuller's A
Spiritual and most Precious Perle, which was
published in 1550 . It is as follows : "As the
Free-Mason heweth the hard stones . .
even so God the Heavenly Free-Mason build-
eth a Christian church ." But, in fact, the
word was used at a much earlier period
and occurs, Steinbrenner says 	(Orig . and
Early Hist . of Mas ., p . 110), for the first
time in a statute passed in 1350, in the
twenty-fifth year of Edward I ., where the
wages of a master Freemason are fixed at
4 pence, and of other masons at 3 pence .
The original French text of the statute is
"Mestre de franche-peer ." "Here," says
Steinbrenner, "the word Freemason evidently
signifies a free-stone mason--one who works in
free-stone, (Fr . franche-peer, i . e ., franche-
pierre,) as distinguished from the rough
mason, who merely built walls of rough, un-
hewn stone ." This latter sort of workmen was
that class called by the Scotch Masons cowans,
whom the Freemasons were forbidden to work
with, whence we get the modern use of that
word . Ten years after, in 1360, we have a
statute of Edward III ., in which it is ordained
that "every mason shall finish his work, be it
of free-stone or of rough-stone," where the
French text of the statute is "de franche-pere
ou de grosse-ere ." Thus it seems evident
that the word free-mason was originally used
in contradistinction to rough-mason . 	The old
Constitutions sometimes call these latter
masons rough-layers .
[Dr . Murray's New English Dictionary has
the following (s.v . Freemason) :
"The precise import with which the adj .
was originally used in this designation has been
much disputed . Three views have been pro-
pounded . (1) The suggestion that free mason
stands for free-stone mason would appear un-
worthy of attention, but for the curious fact
that the earliest known instances of any simi-
lar appellation are mestre mason de franche peer,
`master mason of free stone' (Act 25, Edw .
III ., at . II ., c . 3, A . D . 1350), and sculptores
lapidum liberorum, 'carvers of free stones,'
alleged to occur in a document of 1217 (tr .
Findel's Hist . Mas ., 51, citing Wyatt Pap-
worth) : the coincidence, however, seems to be
merely accidental . 	(2) The view most gen-
erally held is that free masons were those who
were `free' of the masons' guild . Against this
explanation many forcible objections have
been brought by Mr . G . W . Speth, who sug-
gests (3) that the itinerant masons were called
'free' because they claimed exemption from
the control of the local guilds of the towns in
which they temporarily settled . (4) Perhaps
the best hypothesis is that the term refers to
the mediaeval practice of emancipating skilled
artisans, in order that they might be able to
travel and render their services wherever any
great building was in process of construction . '

FREEMASONRY
And then the following meanings are given :
"1 . A member of a certain class of skilled
workers in stone, in the 14th and follow-
ing centuries often mentioned in contra-
distinction to `rough masons,' 'ligiers,' etc .
They travelled from place to place, finding
employment wherever important buildings
were being erected, and had a system of secret
signs and passwords by which a craftsman who
had been admitted on giving evidence of com-
petent skill could be recognized . In later use
(16-18th c .) the term seems often to be used
merely as a more complimentary synonym of
`mason,' implying that the workman so desig-
nated belonged to a superior grade ."
The earliest instance quoted of the word in
this sense is in a list of the London City Com-
panies of 1376 .
"2 . A member of the fraternity called more
fully, Free and Accepted Masons .
"Early in the 17th c ., the societies of free-
masons (in sense 1) began to admit honor-
ary members, not connected with the build-
ing trades, but supposed to be eminent for
architectural or antiquarian learning . These
were called accepted masons, though the term
free masons was often loosely applied to
them ; and they were admitted to a knowledge
of the secret signs, and instructed in the leg-
endary history of the craft, which had already
begun to be developed . The distinction of
being an `accepted mason' became a fashion-
able object of ambition, and before the
end of the 17th c . the object of the societies
of freemasons seems to have been chiefly
social and convivial . In 1717, under the
guidance of the physicist J . T . Desaguliers,
four of these societies or `lodges' in London
united to form a `grand lodge,' with a new con-
stitution and ritual, and a system of secret
signs : the object of the society as reconsti-
tuted being mutual help and the promotion of
brotherly feeling among its members ."
The earliest instance quoted of the word in
this sense is in Ashmole's diary under date
1646 . 	(See Ashmole .) 	[E . L . H .]
Gould in his concise History says : "Two
curious coincidences have been connected with
the above year (1375) . The first, that the
earliest copy of the manuscript constitutions
(Regius MS .) refers to the customs of that
period ; the second, that the formation of a
wonderful society, occasioned by a combina-
tion of masons undertaking not to work with-
out an advance of wages, when summoned
from several counties by writs of Edward III .,
to rebuild and enlarge Windsor Castle, under
the direction of William of Wykeham, has
been placed at the same date . It is said also
that these masons agreed on certain signs and
tokens by which they might know one an-
other, and render mutual assistance against
impressment ; and further agreed not to work
unless free and on their own terms . Hence
they called themselves Free-Masons ."
[E . E . C .]
Freemasonry, 	Early British . 	Bro .
Robert Freke Gould, in his History of F . M .
(i ., p . 381), writes : "The minutes of Scottish
FREEMASONRY 	283
Lodges from the sixteenth century, and evi-
dences of British Masonic life dating farther
back by some two hundred years (than the
second decade of the last century) were actu-
ally left unheeded by our premier historiog-
rapher, although many of such authentic and
invaluable documents lay ready to hand, only
awaiting examination, amongst the muniments
in the old Lodge chests . . . . By the collect-
ion and comparatively recent publication of
many of the Interesting records above alluded
to, so much evidence has been accumulated re-
specting the early history, progress, and char-
acter of the craft as to be almost embarrassing,
and the proposition may be safely advanced,
that the Grand Lodges of Great Britain are
the direct descendants, by continuity and ab-
sorption, of the ancient Freemasonry which
immediately preceded their institution, which
will be demonstrated without requiring the
exercise of either dogmatism or credulity .
"The oldest Lodges in Scotland possess
registers of members and meetings, as well as
particulars of their laws and customs, ranging
backward nearly three hundred years . (These)
will form an important link in the chain which
connects what is popularly known as the
Lodges of Modern Freemasonry, with their
operative and speculative ancestors ."
There are no Lodge records in England of
the seventeenth century, and records of only
one between 1700 and 1717 .
The original St . Clair Charters (q . v .) in the
custody of the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
dated, respectively, 1601-2 and 1628, are re-
ferred to by Gould . Then are considered the
Schaw Statutes, No . 1, of A .D . 1598 (see
Schaw Manuscript), the Schaw Statutes, No .
2, of A .D . 1599, and their relevancy to
"Mother Kilwinning " Lodge, Ayrshire, No . 0,
with an important certificate from William
Schaw, which proves that the document of
1599 was intended exclusively for the Masons
under the jurisdiction of the Kilwinning
Lodge . The subject of the "Lodge of Edin-
burgh," No . 1, and its career from its earliest
records, dating back to 1599, down to the year
1736, when the Grand Lodge of Scotland was
inaugurated, as most fully described in Lyon's
history of this ancient Lodge, passes under
review ; then appears, as Bro . Gould says,
one of the adornments of that history in the
facsimile of the record of that Lodge, showing
that the earliest minute of the presence of a
speculative freeman Mason in a Lodge, and
taking part in its deliberations, is dated June
8, 1600 . 	(Hist . of F . M ., i ., 406 .) It is to be
noted that "the admission of General Alex-
ander Hamilton, on May 20, 1640, and of the
Right Hon . Sir Patrick Hume, Bart ., on De-
cember 27, 1667, are specially recorded as con-
stituting these intrants 'Felow and Mr off the
forsed craft,' and `Fellow of craft (and Master)
of this lodg,' respectively ." (Ibid ., p . 408 .)
It is assumed that Master simply meant a
compliment ; certainly, there was nothing cor-
responding with the ceremony of a Master
Mason's Degree at that time . Many of the
operatives did not view the introduction

284 	FREEMASONRY
of the speculative element with favor, and
at one time they were arrayed in hostile
camps ; but eventually those who supported
the "Gentlemen" or "Geomatic Masons"
won the day, the "Domatics" having to suc-
cumb . In the Lodge of Aberdeen, the
majority in A .D . 1670 were actually non-
operative or speculative members .
On March 2, 1653, appears the important
fact of the election of a "joining member ."
Again, Lyon declares that the reference to
"frie mesones," in the minute of December
27, 1636, is the earliest instance yet discovered
of "Free-Mason" being applied to desig-
nate members of the Mason craft, and con-
siders that it is used as an abbreviation of
the term 	"Freemen Masons ." But while
concurring therein, as did Bro . Hughan,
Gould thinks the word freemason may be
traced back to 1581 when the "Melrose"
version of the "Old t harges" was originally
written .
"Canongate Kilwinning" Lodge, No . 2,
was commissioned or warranted by the Lodge
of Kilwinning, No . 0, granting powers to
several of their own members resident in
the Canongate, Edinburgh, and dated De-
cember 201 1677 . This, Bro . Gould says, was
a direct invasion of jurisdiction, for it was
not simply a charter to enable their mem-
bers to meet as Masons in Edinburgh, but
also to act as independently as "Mother Kil-
winning" herself, with a separate existence,
which was the actual result that ensued .
(Ibid ., p . 410 .)
" Scoon and Perth" Lodge No . 8 is much
older than No . 2, althougi fourt t on the
roll, though the authorities state that it
existed "before 1658," and the Grand Lodge
acknowledges this date at the present time,
placing Nos . 0 and 1, however, as "before
1598," and No . 57 (Haddington) at 1599,
there being also many bearing seventeenth
century designations . 	(Ibid ., p . 411 .)
The Lodge of "Glasgow St. John," No . 3,
bis, is next mentioned as "an old Lodge,
undoubtedly, though its documents do not
date back as far as some of its admirers have
declared ." 	(Ibid ., p . 413 .) The Rev . A . T .
Grant is quoted as saying that every line is
inconsistent with the charter phraseology of
the period to which it has been assigned . 	But
Mr . W . P . Buchan states that the first notice
in the minutes of the "Glasgow Incorporation
of Masons" bears date September 22, 1620,
viz ., " Entry of Apprentices to the Lodge
of Glasgow, the last day of Dec ., 1613 years,
compeared John Stewart, &c ." It was
placed on the roll of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland in 1850 as No . 3, bis ; it was exclu-
sively operative .
"Glasgow Kilwinning" Lodge, No . 4, dates
from 1735 .
"Canongate and Leith, Leith and Canongate"
Lodge, No . 5, is authoritatively acknowledged
as dating from 1688 .
Lodge of "Old Kilwinning St . John," In-
verness, No . 6, was granted a Charter of
Confirmation on November 30, 1737, its exist-
FREE-WILL
ence being admitted from the year 1678, but
a cloud rests upon the latter record .
" Hamilton Kilwinning" Lodge, No . 7, is
considered to date from the year 1695 .
Thus Bro . Gould, in his remarkable His-
tory, continues quoting old Charters, Laws,
Statutes, etc ., back even to the sixteenth cen-
tury, in a most interesting manner, dissent-
ing largely from the early history of Bro .
George H . Fort, and as well from the An-
tiquities of Freemasonry, by Bro . Findel . (See
"Four Old Lodges .")
Freemasonry, History of . 	See : The His-
tory of Freemasonry, by Albert Gallatin Mackey
and William R . Singleton, published in seven
volumes by The Masonic History Company,
New York . 	The History of Freemasonry, by
Robert Freke Gould, published in six volumes,
London . 	The History of Freemasonry, by J .
G . Findel, published in eight volumes, Leip-
zig ; second edition, London, 1869 .
See also : The Antiquity of Freemasonry ;
Origin of Freemasonry ; Operative Freemasonry
and Speculative Freemasonry .
Freemasons of the Church . 	An archi-
tectural college was organized in London,
in the year 1842, under the name of "Free-
masons of the Church for the Recovery,
Maintenance, and Furtherance of the True
Principles and Practice of Architecture ."
The founders of the association announced
their objects to be "the rediscovery of the
ancient principles of architecture ; the sanc-
tion of good principles of building, and the
condemnation of bad ones ; the exercise of
scientific and experienced judgment in the
choice and use of the proper materials ; the
infusion, maintenance, and advancement of
science throughout architecture ; and event-
ual ly, by developing the powers of the college
upon a just and beneficial footing, to reform
the whole practice of architecture, to raise
it from its present vituperated condition,
and to bring around it the same unques-
tioned honor which is at present enjoyed
by almost every other profession ." One of
their members has said that the title assumed
was not intended to express any conformity
with the general body of Freemasons, but
rather as indicative of the profound views of
the college, namely, the recovery, mainte-
nance, and furtherance of the free principles and
practise of architecture ; and that, in addition,
they made it an object of their exertions to
preserve or effect the restoration of architec-
tural remains of antiquity, threatened unneces-
sarily with demolition or endangered by decay .
But it is evident, from the close connection of
modern Freemasonry with the building gilds
of the Middle Ages, that any investigation
into the condition of Medieval architecture
must throw light on Masonic history .
Free-Will and Accord . 	There is one
peculiar feature in the Masonic Institution
that must commend it to the respect of every
generous mind . In other associations it is
considered meritorious in a member to exert
his influence in obtaining applications for
admission ; but it is wholly uncongenial with

FREE-WILL
the spirit of our Order to persuade anyone
to become a Mason . Whosoever seeks a
knowledge of our mystic rites, must first be
prepared for the ordeal in his heart ; he must
not only be endowed with the necessary moral
qualifications which would fit him for ad-
mission into our ranks, but he must come too,
uninfluenced by friends and unbiased by
unworthy motives . 	This is a settled land-
mark of the Order ; and, therefore, nothing
can be more painful to a true Mason than
to see this landmark violated by young and
heedless brethren . 	For it cannot be denied
that it is sometimes violated ; and this habit
of violation is one of those unhappy influences
sometimes almost insensibly exerted upon
Masonry by the existence of the many secret
societies to which the present age has given
birth, and which resemble Masonry in nothing
except in having some sort of a secret cere-
mony 	of initiation . 	These societies are
introducing into some parts of 	America
such phraseology as a "card" for a "demit,"
or "worthy" for "worshipful," or "brothers"
for "brethren ." 	And there are some men
who, coming among us imbued with the
principles and accustomed to the usages of
these modern societies, in which the persever-
ing solicitation of candidates is considered
as a legitimate and even laudable practise,
bring with them these preconceived notions,
and consider it their duty to exert all their
influence in persuading their friends to become
members of the Craft . 	Men who thus mis-
understand the true policy of our Institution
should be instructed by their older and more
experienced brethren that it is wholly in
opposition to all our laws and principles to
ask any man to become a Mason, or to exercise
any kind of influence upon the minds of others,
except that of a truly Masonic life and a
practical exemplification of its tenets, by
which they may be induced to ask admission
into our Lodges . 	We must not seek-we
are to be sought .
And if this were not an ancient law, em-
bedded in the very cement that upholds our
system, policy alone would dictate an ad-
herence to the voluntary usage . 	We need
not now fear that our Institution will suffer
from a deficiency of members . 	Our greater
dread should be that, in its rapid extension,
less care may be given to the selection of
candidates than the interests and welfare
of the Order demand . 	There can, therefore,
be no excuse for the practise of persuading
candidates, and every hope of safety in
avoiding such a practise . 	It should always be
borne in mind that the candidate who comes
to us not of his own "free-will and accord,"
but induced by the persuasions of his friends
-no matter how worthy he otherwise may be
-violates, by so coming, the requirements
of our Institution on the very threshold of
its temple, and, in ninety-nine cases out of a
hundred, fails to become imbued with that
zealous attachment to the Order which is
absolutely essential to the formation of a
true Masonic character .
FRENCH 	285
Freimaurer . 	German 	for 	Freemason .
Mauer means "a wall," and mauern, "to
build a wall ." 	Hence, literally, freimaurer
is a "builder of walls" who is free of his
gild, from the fact that the building of walls
was the first occupation of masons .
Frelmaurerel . 	German for Freemasonry .
French, Benjamin Brown . A distin-
guished Mason of the United States, who
was born at Chester, in New Hampshire,
September 4, 1800, and died at the city of
Washington, where he had long resided, on
August 12, 1870 . He was initiated into
Masonry in 1825, and during his whole life
took an active interest in the affairs of the
Fraternity . . He served for many years as
General Grand Secretary of the General
Grand Chapter, and Grand Recorder of the
Grand Encampment of the United States .
In 1846, soon after his arrival in Washington
he was elected Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of the District, a position which he
repeatedly occupied . 	In 1859, be was elected
Grand Master of the Templars of the United
States, a distinguished position which he held
for six years, having been reelected in 1862 .
His administration, during a period of much
excitement in the country, was marked by
great firmness, mingled with a spirit of con-
ciliation . 	He was also a prominent member
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite,
and at the time of his death was the Lieu-
tenant Grand Commander of the Supreme
Council for the . Southern Jurisdiction of
the United States .
Bro . French was possessed of much in-
tellectual ability, and contributed no small
share of his studies to the literature of Ma-
sonry . 	His writings, which have not yet been
collected, were numerous, and consisted of
Masonic odes, many of them marked with
the true poetic spirit, eloquent addressee on
various public occasions, learned dissertations
on Masonic law, and didactic essays, which
were published at the time in various periodi-
cals . 	His decisions on Templar law have al-
ways been esteemed of great value .
French Rite . 	(Rite Francais ou Modern .)
The French or Modern Rite is one of the
three principal Rites of Freemasonry . 	It
consists of seven degrees, three symbolic
and four higher, viz . : 1 . Apprentice ; 2 .
Fellow-Craft ; 3 . Master ; 4 . Elect ; 5 . Scotch
Master ; 6 . Knight of the East ; 7 . Rose Croix .
This Rite is practised in France, in Brazil,
and in Louisiana . 	It was founded, in 1786,
by the Grand Orient of France, who, un-
willing to destroy entirely the high degrees
which were then practised by the different
Rites, and yet anxious to reduce them to a
smaller number and to greater simplicity,
extracted these degrees out of the Rite of
Perfection, making some few slight modi-
fications . 	Most of the authors who have
treated of this Rite have given to its sym-
bolism an entirely astronomical meaning .
Among these writers, we may refer to Ragon,
in his Cours Philosophique, as probably the
most scientific .

286 	FRERES
Ragon, in his Tuileur General (p . 51), says
that the four degrees of the French Rite,
which were elaborated to take the place of
the thirty de gr ees of the Scottish Rite,
have for their basis the four physical proofs
to which the recipiendary submits in the
First Degree . And that the symbolism
further represents the sun in his annual
p rogress through the four seasons . Thus, the
Elect Degree represents the element of Earth
and the season of Spring ; the Scottish Master
represents Air and the Summer ; the Knight
of the East re p resents Water and Autumn ;
and the Rose Croix represents Fire ; but he
does not claim that it is consecrated to Winter,
although that would be the natural con-
clusion .
The original Rose Croix was an eminently
Christian degree, which, being found in-
convenient, was in 1860 substituted b y the
Philosophic Rose Croix which now forms
the summit of the French Rite .
Freres Pontifes . 	See Bridge Builders of
the Middle Ages .
Frey or Freta . 	Grimme, in his Deutsche
Mythologie (pp . 191, 279), traces the name
Freia through the ancient Teutonic dialects
and explains it to signify plenty and beauty .
Also, see Thorpe Northern Mythology, (vol . i .,
pp . 197, 198) . The column or pillar set apart
to the goddess Frey in the temple of Upsala
became the pillar of beauty or plenteousness .
Bro . Fort says, in his Antiquities (ch . 27),
the three divinities in the Norse temple at
Upsala, in Denmark, Odin Thor, and Frey,
were typical supports of the universe-Wis-
dom, Strength, and Beauty-or the three
of the ten columns in the Hebrew se hiroth,
in the Jewish philosophy, designate as Sa-
pientia, 	Pulchritudo, 	and 	Fundamentum ;
which, like the three columns existing in a
Lodge of Freemasons, symbolize the moral-
istic pillars of the world, represented by
the Lodge itself . An additional significant
fact confronts us at this point : the column
of Beauty or Plenty, originally emblematic
of Frey, is situated in the south of the Lodge .
A Masonic symbol--sheaf of grain-always
suspended above that station, denotes plen-
teousness . Freia may also be comparatively
described as the Scandinavian Isis .
Friendly Societies . 	Societies first estab-
lished toward the end of the last century,
in England, for the relief of mechanics,
laborers, and other persons who derived their
support from their daily toil . By the week-
ly payment of a stipulated sum, the members
secured support and assistance from the
society when sick, and payment of the ex-
penses of burial when they died . These
societies gave origin to the Odd Fellows and
other similar associations, but they have no
relation whatever to Freemasonry .
Friend of St . John . 	The Sixth Degree
of the system practised by the Grand Lodge
of Sweden . It is comprehended in the degree
of Knight of the East and West .
Friend of Truth . 	The Fifth Degree
of the Rite of African Architects .
FURNITURE
Friendship . 	Leslie, in 1741, delivered
the first descant on Friendship, as peculiarly
a Masonic virtue . He was followed by
Hutchinson, Preston and other writers, and
now in the modern lectures it is ado p ted as
one of the precious jewels of a Master Mason .
Of universal friendship, blue is said to be the
symbolic color . "In regular gradation,"
says Munkhouse (Disc ., i ., 17), "and by an
easy descent, brotherly love extends itself
to lesser distinct societies or to particular
individuals, and thus becomes friendship
either of convenience or of personal affection .
Cicero says, "Amicitia nisi inter bonus non
potent," Friendship can exist only among
the good .
Fund of Benevolence . 	A fund estab-
lished in 1727 by the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land and solely devoted to charity . The
regulations for its management are as follows :
Its distribution and a p plication is directed
by the Constitutions to be monthly, for which
purpose a Board of Benevolence is holden on
the last Wednesday of every month except
December, when it is on the third Wednesday .
This Lodge consists of all the present and
past Grand Officers, all actual Masters of
Lodges, and twelve Past Masters . The
brother presiding is bound strictly to enforce
all the regulations of the Craft respecting
the distribution of the fund, and must be
satisfied, before any petition is read, that all
the required formalities have been complied
with . To every petition must be added a
recommendation, signed in open Lodge by
the Master, Wardens, and a majority of the
members then present, to which the petitioner
does or did belong, or from some other con-
tributing Lodge, certifying that they have
known him to have been in reputable or at
least tolerable, circumstances, and that he
has been not less than five years a subscribing
member to a regular Lodge .
Fund, Grand Masters' . 	A fund over
which the G . Master of the United G . Lodge
of England exercises exclusive control . It
originated with a sum of £2,730 subscribed
by the Craft in 1870, when the Earl of Zetland
retired from the Grand Mastership, and is
known as "The Zetland Fund ."
Funds of the Lodge . 	The funds of
the Lodge are p laced in the keeping of the
Treasurer, to whom all moneys received by
the Secretary must be immediately p aid .
Hence each of these officers is a check on
the other . And hence, too, the "Thirty-
nine Regulations" of 1721 say that the
Grand Treasurer should be "a brother of
good worldly substance" (Constitutions, 1723,
p . 62) lest impecuniosity should tempt him
to mate use of the Lodge funds .
Funeral Rites . 	See Burial .
Furlac . 	A word in the high degrees,
whose etymology is uncertain but probably
Arabic . It is said to signify the angel of the
earth .
Furniture of a Lodge . 	The Bible
square, and compasses are technically said
to constitute the furniture of a Lodge . They

FUSTIER
are respectfully dedicated to God, the Master
of the Lodge, and the Craft . Our English
brethren differ from us in their explanation
of the furniture . Oliver gives their illustra-
tion from the English lectures, as follows :
t
"~he Bible is said to derive from God
to man in general ; because the Almighty
has been pleased to reveal more of His divine
will by that holy book than by any other
means . 	The Compasses being the chief
implement used in the construction of all
architectural plans and designs, are assigned
o the Grand M aster in particular as emblems
of his dignity, he being the chief head and
ruler of the Craft . The square is given
to the whole Masonic body, because we are
all obligated within it, and are consequently
bound to act thereon ." 	(Landmarks, i ., 169 .)
But the lecture of the early part of the last
century made the furniture consist of the
Mosaic Pavement, Blazing Star, and the In-
dented Tarsel, while the Bible, square, and
compass were considered as additional
furniture .
Fustier . 	An officer of the Grand Orient
of France in the beginning of this century .
In 1810, he published, and presented to the
Grand Orient, a Geographical Chart of the
Lodges in France and its Dependencies . 	He
I
aG . 	(Hebrew, 	a . 	Chaldaic, or
hieroglyphic .) The seventh letter of
the English and Roman alphabets .
In the Greek and many other alpha-
bets it is the third in place ; in the
Russian, Wallachian, and some others it is
the fourth ; in the Arabic the fifth, and in
the Ethiopian the twentieth .
In Hebrew it is called "Gimel," is of the
numerical value of 3, and its signification is
camel . 	It is associated with the third sacred
name of God in Hebrew, 511a (Ghadol),
magnus . 	In Masonry it is given as the initial
of God . The Masonic use of the letter
tends to the belief of a modern form in the
ceremony of the Fellow-Craft Degree . (See
G . 0 . D .)
G . As in all Roman Catholic and in
many Protestant churches the cross, en-
graved or sculptured in some prominent
position, will be found as the expressive
symbol of Christianity, so in every Masonic
Lodge a letter G may be seen in the east,
either painted on the wall or sculptured in
wood or metal, and suspended over the
Master's chair . This is, in fact, if not the
most prominent, certainly the most familiar,
of all the symbols of Freemasonry . It is
the one to which the poet Burns alluded in
G
G 	287
was the author of several memoirs, dis-
sertations, etc ., on Masonic subjects, and
of a manuscript entitled 	Nomenclature Al-
phabetique des Grades . 	Oliver (Landmarks,
ii ., 95) says that he promulgated a new system
of sixty-four degrees . But he seems to have
mistaken Fustier's catalogue of degrees in-
vented by others for a system established
by himself . No record can be found else-
where of such a system . Lenning says
(Encyc . der Freimaurerei) that Fustier was a
dealer in Masonic decorations and in the
transcript of rituals, of which he had made
a collection of more than four hundred, which
he sold at established prices .
Future Life . 	Lorenzo de Medici said
that all those are dead, even for the present
life, who do not believe in a future state .
The belief in that future life, it is the object
of Freemasonry, as it was of the ancient
initiations, to teach .
Fylfot . An ancient symbol well known
among Heralds . It is sometimes
known as the 	crux 	dissimulata,
found in the catacombs of Rome,
and forms one of the symbols of the
degree of Prince of Mercy, Scottish
Rite System . It is a form of the "Swastika ."
(See Jaina Cross .)
those well-known and often-quoted lines,
in which he speaks of
" 	that hieroglyphic bright,
Which none but Craftsmen ever saw" ;
that is to say, ever saw understandingly-
ever saw, knowing at the same time what it
meant .
There is an uncertainty as to the exact
time when this symbol was first introduced
into Speculative Masonry . It was not de-
rived, in its present form, from the Opera-
tive Masons of the Middle Ages, who be-
stowed upon Freemasonry so much of its
symbolism, for it is not found among the
architectural decorations of the old cathe-
drals . Dr . Oliver says it was "in the old
lectures" ; but this is an uncertain expression .
From Prichard's Masonry Dissected, which
was published in 1730, it would seem that
the symbol was not in use at that date . But
it may have been omitted . If Tubal Cain,
which was published in 1767, is, as it pur-
ported to be, identical with Prichard's work,
the question is settled ; for it contains the
lecture on the letter G, to which reference
will directly be made .
It is, however, certain that the symbol
was well known and recognized in 1766, and

288 	G
some few years before . The book entitled
Solomon in all his Glory, the first edition of
which appeared in that year, and which is a
translation of "Le Mason demasque," contains
the reference to and the explanation of the
symbol . The work contains abundant in-
ternal evidence that it is a translation, and
hence the symbol may, like some others of
the system subsequent to 1717, have been
first introduced on the Continent, and then
returned in the translation, all of which
would indicate a date some years anterior
to 1776 for the time of its adoption .
In the ritual contained in Tubal Cain
(p . 18) or, if that be only a reprint, in Ma-
sonry lyisseeted, that is to say, in 1768 or in
1730, there is a test which is called "The
Repeating the Letter G," and which Dr .
Oliver gives in his Landmarks (i ., 454) as a
part of the "old lectures ." It is doggerel
verse, and in the form of a catechism between
an examiner and a respondent, a form greatly
affected in these old lectures, and is as follows :
"Rnsr .-In the Midst of Solomon's Temple
there stands a G,
A letter for all to read and see ;
But few there be that understand
What means the letter G .
"Ex .-My friend, if you pretend to be
Of this Fraternity,
You can forthwith and rightly tell
What means that letter G .
"Rnsr .-By sciences are brought about,
Bodies of various kinds,
Which do appear to perfect sight ;
But none but males shall know my
mind .
"Ex .-the Right shall .
"Rnsr .-If Worshipful .
"Ex .-Both Right and Worshipful I am ;
To hail you I have command,
That you forthwith let me know,
As I you may understand .
"Rnsr .-By letters four and science five,
This G aright doth stand,
In a due art and proportion ;
You have your answer, Friend ."
And now as to the signification of the
sym bol . We may say, in the first place,
that the explanation is by no means, and
never has been, esoteric . As the symbol it-
self has always been exposed to public view,
forming, as it does, a prominent part of the
furniture of a Lodge, to be seen by every-
one, so our Masonic authors, from the earliest
times, have not hesitated to write, openly
and in the plainest language, of its signifi-
cation . The fact is, that the secret instruc-
tion in reference to this symbol relates not
to the knowledge of the symbol itself, but to
the mode in which, and the object for which,
that knowledge has been obtained .
Hutchinson, who wrote as early as 1776,
says, in his Spirit of Masonry (Lect . viii .),
"It is now incumbent on me to demonstrate
to you the great signification of the letter
G
G, wherewith Lodges and the medals of
Masons are ornamented .
"To apply its signification to the name of
God only is depriving it of part of its Masonic
import ; although I have already shown that
the symbols used in Lodges are expressive
of the Divinity's being the great object of
Masonry, as Architect of the world .
"This significant letter denotes Geometry,
which, to artificers, is the science by which
all their labours are calculated and formed ;
and to Masons, contains the determination,
definition, and proof of the order, beauty
and wonderful wisdom of the power of God
in His creation ."
Again, Dr . Frederick Dalcho, a distin-
guished Mason of South Carolina, in one
of his Orations, delivered and published in
1801, uses the following language :
"The letter G, which ornaments the Mas-
ter's Lodge, is not only expressive of the
name of the Grand Architect of the universe,
but also denotes the science of Geometry, so
necessary to artists . But the adoption of it
by Masons implies no more than their respect
for those inventions which demonstrate to
the world the power, the wisdom, and benefi-
cence of the Almighty Builder in the works
of the creation ." (P . 27 .)
Lastly, Dr . Oliver has said, in his Golden
Remains of the Early Masonic Writers, that
"the term G . A . O. T . U . is used among
Masons for this great and glorious Being,
designated by the letter G, that it may be
applied by every brother to the object of
his adoration ."
More quotations are unnecessary to show
that from the earliest times, since the adop-
tion of the letter as a symbol, its explanation
has not been deemed an esoteric or secret
part of the ritual . No Masonic writer has
hesitated openly to give an explanation of
its meaning . The mode in which, and the
purpose for which, that explanation was
obtained are the only hidden things about
the symbol .
It is to be regretted that the letter G, as
a symbol, was ever admitted into the Ma-
sonic system . The use of it, as an initial,
would necessarily confine it to the English
language and to modern times . It wants,
therefore, as a symbol, the necessary char-
acteristics of both universality and antiq-
uity . 	The Greek letter gamma is said to
have been venerated by the Pythagoreans
because it was the initial of y ewp4rptaa, or
Geometry . 	But this veneration could not
have been shared by other nations whose
alphabet had no gamma, and where the
word for geometry was entirely different .
There can be no doubt that the letter G
is a very modern symbol, not belonging to
any old system anterior to the origin of the
English language . It is, in fact, a corruption
of the old Hebrew Kabbalistic symbol, the
letter yod `, by which the sacred name of
God-in fact, the most sacred name, the
Tetragrammaton-is expressed . This letter,
yod, is the initial letter of the word 71f i',

GABAON
or Jehovah, and is constantly to be met with
among Hebrew writers, as the abbreviation
or symbol of that most holy name, which,
indeed, was never written at length . Now,
as G is in like manner the initial of God,
the English equivalent of the Hebrew Jeho-
vah, the letter has been adopted as a symbol
intended to supply to modern Lodges the
place of the Hebrew symbol . First adopted
by the English ritual makers, it has, without
remark, been transferred to the Masonry of
the Continent, and it is to be found as a
symbol in all the systems of Germany, France,
Spain, Italy, Portugal, and every other
country where Masonry has been introduced ;
although in Germany only can it serve, as it
does in England, for an intelligent symbol .
The letter G, then, has in Masonry the
same force and signification that the letter
yod had among the Kabbalists . It is only a
symbol of the Hebrew letter, and, as that
is a symbol of God, the letter G is only a
symbol of a symbol . As for its reference
to geometry, Kloss the German Masonic
historian, says that the old Operative Masons
referred the entire science of geometry to
the art of building, which gave to the modern
English Masons occasion to embrace the
whole system of Freemasonry under the
head of Geometry, and hence the symbol
of that science, as well as of God, was adopted
for the purpose of giving elevation to the
Fellow-Craft's Degree .
Indeed, the symbol, made sacred by its
reference to the Grand Geometrician of the
universe, was well worthy to be applied to
that science which has, from the remotest
times, been deemed synonymous with Ma-
sonry .
Gabaon . 	A significant word in the high
degrees . 	Oliver says (Landm ., i ., 335), "in
philosophical Masonry, heaven, or, more cor-
rectly speaking, the third heaven, is denomi-
nated Mount Gabaon, which is feigned to be
accessible only by the seven degrees that
compose the winding staircase . These are
the degrees terminating in the Royal Arch ."
Gabaon is defined to signify "a high place ."
It is the Septuagint and Vulgate form of
1l ;7 :a, Gibeon, which was the city in which
the tabernacle was stationed during the
reigns of David and Solomon . The word
means a city built on a hill, and is referred
to in 2 Chron . i . 3 . 	"So Solomon, and all
the congregation with him, went to the high
place that was at Gibeon ; for there was the
tabernacle of the congregation of God ."
In a ritual of the middle of the last cen-
tury, it is said that Gabanon is the name
of a Master Mason . This word is a striking
evidence of the changes which Hebrew
words have undergone in their transmission
to Masonic rituals, and of the almost im-
possibility of tracing them to their proper
root . It would seem difficult to find a con-
nection between Gabanon and any known
Hebrew word . But if we refer to Guille-
main's Ritual of Adonhiramite Masonry, we
will find the following passage :
GAEDICKE 	289
"Q . How is a Master called?
"A . Gabaon, which is the name of the place
where the Israelites deposited the ark in the
time of trouble .
"Q . What does this signify?
"A . That the heart of a Mason ought to be
pure enough to be a temple suitable for God ."
(P . 95 .)
There is abundant internal evidence that
these two rituals came from a common source,
and that Gabaon is a French distortion, as
Gabanon is an English one, of some unknown
word-connected, however, with the Ark of
the Covenant as the place where that article
was deposited .
Now, we learn from the Jewish records that
the Philistines, who had captured the ark,
deposited it "in the house of Abinadab that
was in Gibeah" ; and that David, subse-
quently recapturing it, carried it to Jerusa-
lem but left the tabernacle at Gibeon . The
ritualist did not remember that the taber-
nacle at Gibeon was without the ark, but sup-
posed that .it was still in that sacred shrine .
Hence, Gabaon or Gabanon must have been
corrupted from either Gibeah or Gibeon, be-
cause the ark was considered to be at some
time in both places . But Gibeon had already
been corrupted by the Septuagint and the Vul-
gate versions intoGabaon ; and this undoubted-
ly is the word from which Gabanon is derived,
through either the Septuagint or the Vulgate,
or perhaps from Josephus, who calls it Gabao .
Gabaonne . 	In French Masonic language,
the widow of a Master Mason . Derived from
Gabaon .
Gabor . 	Heb ., 1 :a, strong . A significant
word in the high degrees .
Gabriel . 	Heb ., 	a man of God . The
name of one of the archangels, referred to in
some of the high degrees . He interpreted to
Daniel the vision of the ram and the he-goat,
and made the prophecy of the "seventy
weeks" (Dan . viii . and ix .) ; he announced
the future appearance of the Messiah (Dan .
ix . 21, 27) . In the New Testament he foretold
to Zacharias the birth of John the Baptist
(Luke i . 19), and to Mary the birth of Christ
(Luke i . 26) . Among the Rabbis Gabriel is
entrusted with the care of the souls of the
dead, and is represented as having taught
Joseph the seventy languages spoken at Babel .
In addition, he was the only angel who could
speak Chaldee and Syriac . The Talmud speaks
of him as the Prince of Fire, the Spirit pre-
siding over thunder . 	The Mohammedans
term him the Spirit of Truth, and believe
that he dictated the Koran to Mohammed .
Gaedicke, Johann Christian . 	A book-
seller of Berlin, born on the 14th of December,
1763, and initiated into Masonry in 1804 . He
took much interest in the Order, and was the
author of several works, the most valuable
and best known of which is the Freimaurer-
Lexicon, or Freemasons' Lexicon, published in
1818 ; which, although far inferior to that of
Leaning, which appeared four years after-
ward, is, as a pioneer work, very creditable to
its author . The Lexicon was translated into

290 	GAGE
Engmasonslish and published in the London Free-' Magazine .
Gage . See Twenty-four-Inch Gage .
Galahad . Also spelled Galaad . Most prob-
ably a corruption of Gilead . Said in the
old rituals to have been the keeper of the
Seals in the Scottish degree of Knights of the
Ninth, Arch or Sacred Vault of James VI .
G : . A . • . . • . . • . . • .
Great Architect of the Universe, which see .
Gangler . The title given to the candidate
in the Scandinavian mysteries, signifying wan-
derer . The application is also made to the sun .
Garinus . Said in the old ritual of the de-
gree of Knights of the East and West to have
been the Patriarch of Jerusalem, between
whose hands the first Knights of that Order
took, in 1182, their vows . It is a corruption,
by the French ritualists, of Garimond or Gar-
imund, Patriarch of Jerusalem, before whom
the Hospitalers took their three vows of obe-
dience, chastity, and poverty .
Gassicourt, Cadet de . An apothecary of
Paris, who, in the year 1796, published a work
entitled Le Tombeau de Jacques Molai, ou his-
toire secrete et abregee des inities anciens et mo-
dernes . In this book which embraced all the
errors of Barruel and Robison, he made the
same charges of atheism and conspiracy
against the Fraternity, and loaded the Cheva-
lier Ramsay with the most vehement in-
dignation as a libertine and traitor . But
De Gassicourt subsequently acknowledged his
folly in writing against a society of which he
really knew nothing . In fact, in 1805, he solic-
ited admission into the Order, and was in-
itiated in the Lodge "1'Abeille," at Paris,
where, in the various offices of Orator and
Master, which he filled, he taught and rec-
ommended that Institution which he had once
abused ; and even on a public occasion pro-
nounced the eulogy of- that Ramsay whom he
had formerly anathematized .
Gaston, John . Grand Duke of Tuscany ;
in 1737 he inaugurated a persecution against
the Freemasons in his dominions .
Gates of the Temple . In the system of
Freemasonry, the Temple of Solomon is rep-
resented as having a gate on the east, west,
and south sides, but none on the north . In
reference to the historical Temple of Jerusa-
lem, such a representation is wholly incorrect .
In the walls of the building itself there were no
places of entrance except the door of the porch,
which gave admission to the house . But in the
surrounding courts there were gates at every
point of the compass . The Masonic idea of
the Temple is, however, entirely symbolic .
The Temple is to the Speculative Mason only
a symbol, not an historical building, and the
gates are imaginary and symbolic also . They
are, in the first place, symbols of the progress
of the sun in his daily course, rising in the east,
culminating to the meridian in the south, and
setting in the west . They are also, in the alle-
gory of life, which it is the object of the Third
Degree to illustrate, symbols of the three stages
of youth, manhood, and old age, or, more
properly, of birth, lite, and death .
GEDALIAH
Gaudlnl, Theobald de . Known as the
monk Gaudini . Elected Grand Master of
Templars, 1291 ; died 1301 .
Gauntlets . Gloves formerly made of steel
and worn by knights as a protection to their
hands in battle . They have been adopted in
the United States, as a part of the costume of a
Knights Templar, under a regulation of the
Grand Encampment, which directs them to be"of buff leather, the flap to extend four inches
upwards from the wrist, and to have the
appropriate cross embroidered in gold, on
the proper colored velvet, two inches in
length ."
Gavel . The common gavel is one of the
working tools of an Entered Apprentice . It is
made use of by the Operative Mason to break
off the corners of the rough ashlar, and thus
fit it the better for the builder's use, and is
therefore adopted as a symbol in Specu-
lative Masonry, to admonish us of the duty of
divesting our minds and consciences of all
the vices and impurities of life, thereby fitting
our bodies as living stones for that spiritual
building not made with hands, eternal in the
heavens .
It borrows its name from its shape, being
that of the gable or gavel end of a house ; and
this word again comes from the German gipfel
a summit, top, or peak-the idea of a pointed
extremity being common to all .
The true form of the gavel is that of the
stone-mason's ham-
mer . It is to be
made with a cutting
edge, as in the an-
nexed engraving
that it may be used	"to break off the
corners of rough
stones," an operation which could never be
effected by the common hammer or mallet .
The gavel thus shaped will give, when looked
at in front, the exact representation of the
gavel or gable end of a house, whence, as has
been already said, the name is derived .
The gavel of the Master is also called a"Hiram," because, like that architect, it gov-
erns the Craft and keeps order in the Lodge,
as he did in the Temple .
Gebal . A city of Phoenicia, on the Medi-
terranean, and under Mount Lebanon . It was
the Byblos of the Greeks, where the worship
of Adonis, the Syrian Thammuz, was cele-
brated . The inhabitants, who were Gib-
lites or, in Masonic language, Giblemites, are
said to have been distinguished for the art of
stone-carving, and are called in the 1st Book
of Kings" stone-squarers ." (See Giblim .)
Gedallah . The second officer in a Coun-
cil of Superexcellent Masters represents Ge-
daliah the son of Pashur . An historical error
has crept into the ritual of this degree in ref-
erence to the Gedaliah who is represented in
it . I have sought to elucidate the question
in my work on Cryptic Masonry in the follow-
ing manner :
There are five persons of the name of Ge-
daliah who are mentioned in Scripture, but

GEMARA
only two of them were contemporary with the
destruction of the Temple .
Gedaliah the son of Pashur is mentioned by
the prophet Jeremiah (xxxviii . 1) as a prince
of the court of Zedekiah . He was present at its
destruction, and is known to have been one
of the advisers of the king . It was through
his counsels, and those of his colleagues, that
Zedekiah was persuaded to deliver up the
prophet Jeremiah to death, from which he was
rescued only by the intercession of a eunuch of
the palace .
The other Gedaliah was the son of Ahikam .
He seems to have been greatly in favor with
Nebuchadnezzar, for after the destruction of
Jerusalem, and the deportation of Zedekiah,
he was appointed by the Chaldean monarch
as his satrap or governor over Judea . He took
up his residence at Mizpah, where he was
shortly afterward murdered by Ishmael, one
of the descendants of the house of David .
The question now arises, which of these two
is the one referred to in the ceremonies of a
Council of Superexcellent Masters? I think
there can be no doubt that the founders of the
degree intended the second officer of the Coun-
cil to represent the former, and not the latter
Gedaliah-the son of Pashur, and not Gedal-
iah the son of Ahikam ; the prince of Judah,
and not the governor of Judea .
We are forced to this conclusion by various
reasons . The Gedaliah represented in the
degree must have been a resident of Jerusa-
lem during the siege, and at the very time of
the assault, which immediately preceded the
destruction of the Temple and the city . Now,
we know that Gedaliah the son of Pashur was
with Hezekiah as one of his advisers . On the
other hand, it is most unlikely that Gedaliah
the son of Ahikam could have been a resident
of Jerusalem, for it is not at all probable that
Nebuchadnezzar would have selected such a
one for the important and confidential office
of a satrap or governor . We should rather
suppose that Gedaliah the son of Ahikam had
been carried away to Babylon after one of the
former sieges ; that he had there, like Daniel,
gained by his good conduct the esteem and re-
spect of the Chaldean monarch ; that he had
come back to Judea with the army ; and that,
on the taking of the city, he had been ap-
pointed governor by Nebuchadnezzar . Such
being the facts, it is evident that he could not
have been in the council of King Zedekiah,
advising and directing his attempted escape .
The modern revivers of the degree of Super-
excellent Master have, therefore, been wrong
in supposing that Gedaliah the son of Ahi-
kam, and afterward governor of Judea, was
the person represented by the second officer of
the Council . He was Gedaliah the son of
Pashur, a wicked man, one of Zedekiah's
princes, and was most probably put to death
by Nebuchadnezzar, with the other rinces
and nobles whom he captured in the pins of
Jericho .
Gemara . See Talmud .
General Assembly . 	See Assembly .
General Grand Chapter . 	Until the year
GENERAL 	291
1797, the Royal Arch Degree and the degrees
subsidiary to it were conferred in America,
either in irresponsible bodies calling them-
selves Chapters, but obedient to no superior
authority, or in Lodges working under a
Grand Lodge Warrant . On the 24th of Oc-
tober, 1797, a convention of committees from
three Chapters, namely, St . Andrew's Chapter
of Boston, Temple Chapter of Albany, and
Newburyport Chapter, was held at Boston,
which recommended to the several Chapters
within the States of New Hampshire, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Ver-
mont, and New York to hold a convention at
Hartford on the fourth Wednesday of January
ensuing, to form a Grand Chapter for the said
States .
Accordingly, on the 24th of January, 1798,
delegates from St . Andrew's Chapter of Bos-
ton, Mass . ; King Cyrus Chapter of New-
buryport, Mass . ; Providence Chapter of
Providence, R . I . ; Solomon Chapter of Derby,
Conn . ; Franklin Chapter of Norwich, Conn . ;
Franklin Chapter of New Haven, Conn . ; and
Hudson Chapter of Hudson, N . Y . ; to which
were the next day added Temple Chapter of
Albany, N . Y ., and Horeb Chapter of Whites-
town, N . Y ., assembled at Hartford in Con-
vention, and, having adopted a Constitution
organized a governing body which they styled
"The Grand Royal Arch Chapter of the North-
ern States of America ." This body assumed
in its Constitution jurisdiction over only the
States of New England and New York, and
provided that Deputy Grand Chapters, sub-
ject to its obedience, should be organized in
those States . Ephraim Kirby, of Litchfield,
Conn ., was elected Grand High Priest ; and it
was ordered that the first meeting of the
Grand Chapter should be held at Middle-
town, Conn ., on the third Wednesday of Sep-
tember next ensuing .
On that day the Grand Chapter met, but
the Grand Secretary and Grand Chaplain
were the only Grand Officers present . The
Grand King was represented by a proxy . The
Grand Chapter, however, proceeded to an
election of Grand Officers, and the old officers
were elected . The body then adjourned to
meet in January, 1799, at Providence, R . I .
On the 9th of January, 1799, the Grand
Chapter met at Providence, the Deputy Grand
Chapters of Massachusetts, Rhode Island,
and New York being represented . At this
meeting, the Constitution was very consid-
erably modified, and the Grand Chapter as-
sumed the title of "The General Grand Chap-
ter of Royal Arch Masons for the six Northern
States enumerated in the preamble ." The
meetings were directed to be held septen-
nially ; and the Deputy Grand Chapters were
in future to be called "State Grand Chapters ."
No attempt was, however, made in words to
extend the jurisdiction of the General Grand
Chapter beyond the States already named .
On the 9th of January, 1806, a meeting of
the General Grand Royal Arch Chapter was
held at Middletown, representatives being
present from the States of Rhode Island, Con-

292 	GENERAL
necticut, Vermont, and New York . The Con-
stitution was again revised . The title was for
the first time assumed of "The General Grand
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons for the United
States of America," and jurisdiction was ex-
tended over the whole country . This year
may, therefore, be considered as the true date
of the establishment of the General Grand
Chapter .
In 1826 the septennial meetings were abol-
ished, and the General Grand Chapter has
ever since met triennially .
The General Grand Chapter consists of the
present and past Grand High Priests, Deputy
Grand High Priests, Grand Kings and Scribes
of the State Grand Chapters, and the Past
General Grand Officers .
The officers are a General Grand High
Priest, Deputy General Grand High Priest,
General Grand King, General Grand Scribe,
General Grand Treasurer, General Grand Sec-
retary, General Grand Chaplain, General
Grand Captain of the Host, and General Grand
Royal Arch Captain .
It originally possessed large prerogatives,
extending even to the suspension of Grand
Chapters ; but by its present Constitution it
has "no power ofdiscipline, admonition, cen-
sure, or instruction over the Grand Chapters,
nor any legislative powers whatever not spe-
cially granted" by its Constitution . It may,
indeed, be considered as scarcely more than 'a
great Masonic Congress meeting triennially
for consultation . But even with these re-
stricted powers, it is capable of doing much
good .
General Grand High Priest . 	The pre-
siding officer of the General Grand Chapter of
the United States of America . He is elected
every third year by the General Grand Chap-
ter . The title was first assumed in 1799, al-
though the General Grand Chapter did not at
that time extend its jurisdiction beyond six of
the Northern States .
General Grand Lodge . 	Ever since the
Grand Lodges of this country began, at the
commencement of the Revolutionary War to
abandontheir dependence on the Grand Lodges
of England and Scotland-that is to say, as
soon as they emerged from the subordinate
position of Provincial Grand Lodges, and were
compelled to assume a sovereign and independ-
ent character-attempts have, from time to
time, been made by members of the Craft to
destroy this sovereignty of the State Grand
Lodges, and to institute in its place a superin-
tendmg ower, to be constituted either as a
Grand Master of North America or as a Gen-
eral Grand Lodge of the United States . Led,
perhaps, by the analogy of the united Colo-
nies under one federal head, or, in the very
commencement of the Revolutionary struggle,
controlled by long habits of dependence on the
mother Grand Lodges of Europe, the contest
had no sooner begun, and a disseverance
of political relations between England and
America taken place, than the attempt was
made to institute the office of Grand Master
of the United States, the, 9bject being-of
GENERAL
which there can hardly be a doubt-to invest
Washington with the distinguished dignity .
The effort emanated, it appears, with the
military Lodges in the army . For a full ac-
count of it we are indebted to the industrious
researches of Bro . E . G . Storer, who published
the entire Minutes of the "American Union
Lodge," attached to the Connecticut line, in
his work on The Early Records of Freemasonry
in the State of Connecticut .
On the 27th of December, 1779, the Lodge
met to celebrate the day at Morristown, in
New Jersey, which, it will be remembered, was
then the winter-quarters of the army. At that
communication-at which, it may be re-
marked, by the way, "Bro . Washington" is
recorded among the visitors-a petition was
read, representing the present state of Free-
masonry to the several Deputy Grand Masters
in the United States of America, desiring them
to adopt some measures for appointing a
Grand Master over said States .
The petition purports to emanate from
"Ancient Free and Accepted Masons in the
several lines of the army" ; and on its being
read, it was resolved that a committee be ap-
pointed from the different Lodges in the army,
and from the staff, to meet in convention at
Morristown on the 7th of February next . Ac-
cordingly, on the 7th of Februaryy, 1780, a
convention, called in the records ` a commit-
tee," met at Morristown . 	This convention
adopted an address to the "Grand Masters
of the several Lodges in the respective
United States ." The recommendations of this
address were that the said Grand Masters
should adopt and pursue the most necessary
measures for establishing one Grand Lodge in
America, to preside over and govern all other
Lodges of whatsoever degree or denomination,
licensed or to be licensed, upon the continent ;
that they should nominate, as Grand Master
of said Lodge, a brother whose merit and ca-
pacity may be adequate to a station so im-
portant and elevated ; and that his name
should be transmitted "to our Grand Mother
Lodge in Europe" for approbation and con-
firmation .
This convention contained delegates from
the States of Massachusetts, Connecticut,
New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware, and Maryland . Between the time of its
conception, on the 27th of December, 1779,
and that of its meeting on the 7th of Febru-
ary, 1780, that is to say in January, 1780 the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania had hQ an
emergent meeting, and in some measure antici-
pated the proposed action of the convention
by electing General Washington Grand Master
of the United States .
From the contemporaneous character of
these events, it would seem probable that
there was some concert of action between the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania and the Masons
of Morristown . Perhaps, the initiative hav-
ing been taken by the latter in December, the
former determined to give its influence, in Jan-
uary, to the final recommendations which
were to be made in the following February .

GENERAL
All this, however, although plausible, is but
conjecture . Nothing appears to have resulted
from the action of either body . The only
further reference which I find to the subject,
in subsequent Masonic documents, is the dec-
laration of a convention held in 1783, to or-
ganize the Grand Lodge of Maryland, where it
is remarked that "another Grand Lodge was
requisite before an election could be had of a
Grand Master for the United States ."
But the attempt to form a General Grand
Lodge although, on this occasion, unsuc-
cessful, was soon to be renewed . In 1790, the
proposition was again made by the Grand
Lodge of Georgia, and here, true to the Roman
axiom, Tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in
illis, the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania became
the opponent of the measure, and declared it
to be impracticable .
Again, in 1799, the Grand Lodge of South
Carolina renewed the proposition, and recom-
mended a convention to be held at the city of
Washington for the purpose of establishing a
"Superintending Grand Lodge of America ."
The reasons assigned by the Grand Lodge of
South Carolina for making this proposition are
set forth in the circular which it issued on the
subject to its sister Grand Lodges . They are
"to draw closer the bonds of union between
the different Lodges of the United States, and
to induce them to join in some systematic plan
whereby the drooping spirit of the Ancient
Craft may be revived and become more gen-
erally useful and beneficial, and whereby An-
cient Masonry, so excellent and beautiful in
its primitive institution, may be placed upon
such a respectable and firm basis in this west-
ern world as to bid defiance to the shafts of
malice or the feeble attempts of any foreign
disclaimers to bring it into disrepute ." The
allusion here is to the Abbe Barruel, who had
just published his abusive and anti-Masonic
History of Jacobinism .
Several Grand Lodges acceded to the prop-
osition for holding a convention, although
they believed the scheme of a "Superintend-
ing Grand Lodge" inexpedient and imprac-
ticable ; but they were willing to send dele-
gates for the purpose of producing uniformity
in the Masonic system . The convention, how-
ever did not assemble .
Tie proposition was again made in 1803, by
the Grand Lodge of North Carolina, and with
a like want of success .
In 1806, the subject of a General Grand
Lodge was again presented to the considera-
tion of the Grand Lodges of the Union, and
propositions were made for conventions to be
held in Philadelphia in 1807, and in Washing-
ton city in 1808, neither of which was
convened . 	The Proceedings of the various
Grand Lodges in the years 1806, 1807, and
1808 contain allusions to this subject, most
of them in favor of a convention to introduce
uniformity, but unfavorable to the permanent
establishment of a General Grand Lodge .
North Carolina, however, in 1807, expressed
the opinion that "a National Grand Lodge
should possess controlling and corrective
GENERAL 	293
powers over all Grand Lodges under its juris-
diction ."
An unsuccessful attempt was again made to
hold a convention at Washington in January,
1811, "for the purpose of forming a Super-
intending Grand Lodge of America ."
After the failure of this effort, the Grand
Lodge of North Carolina, which seems to have
been earnest in its endeavors to accomplish
its favorite object, again proposed a conven-
tion, to be convoked at Washington in 1812 .
But the effort, like all which had preceded it,
proved abortive . No convention was held .
The effort seems now, after all these discour-
aging attempts, to have been laid upon the
shelf for nearly ten years . At length, however,
the effort for a convention which had so often
failed was destined to meet with partial suc-
cess, and one rather extemporaneous in its
character was held in Washington on the 8th
of March, 1822 . Over this convention, which
the Grand Lodge of Maryland rather equiv-
ocally describes as "composed of members of
Congress and strangers," the renowned orator
and statesman Henry Clay presided . A strong
appeal, most probably from the facile pen of
its eloquent president, was made to the Grand
Lodges of the country to concur in the estab-
lishment of a General Grand Lodge . But the
appeal fell upon unwilling ears, and the Grand
Lodges continued firm in their opposition to
the organization of such a superintending
body .
The subject was again brought to the at-
tention of the Fraternity by the Grand Lodge
of Maryland, which body, at its communica-
tion in May, 1845, invited its sister Grand
Lodges to meet in convention at Baltimore on
the 23d of September, 1847, for the purpose
of reporting a Constitution of a General Grand
Lodge .
This convention met at the appointed time
and place, but only seven Grand Lodges were
represented by twice that number of dele-
gates . A Constitution was formed for a
"Supreme Grand Lodge of the United States,"
which was submitted for approval or rejection
to the Grand Lodges of the Union . The opin-
ion expressed of that Constitution by the Grand
Lodge of Ohio, "that it embraced, in several
of its sections, indefinite and unmeaning
powers, to which it was impossible to give a
definite construction, and that it gave a juris-
diction to the body which that Grand Lodge
would in no event consent to," seems to have
been very generally concurred in by the other
Grand bodies, and the "Supreme Grand
Lodge of the United States" never went into
operation . The formation of its Constitution
was its first, its last, and its only act .
The next action that we find on this much
discussed subject was by the Grand Lodge of
New York, which body recommended, in 1848,
that each of the Grand Lodges should frame
the outlines of a General Grand Constitution
such as would be acceptable to it, and send it
with a delegate to a convention to be holden
at Boston in 1850, at the time of meeting
of the General Grand Chapter and General

294 	GENERAL
Grand Encampment . The committee of the
Grand Lodge of New York, who mace this
recommendation, also presented the outlines
of a General Grand Constitution .
This instrument defines the jurisdiction of
the proposed General Grand Lodge as in-
tended to be "over all controversies and dis-
putes between the different Grand Lodges
which may become parties to the compact,
when such controversies are referred for de-
cision ; and the decisions in all cases to be final
when concurred in by a majority of the Grand
Lodges present" ; but it disclaims all appeals
from State Grand Lodges or their subordi-
nates in matters relating to their own internal
affairs . It is evident that the friends of the
measure had abated much of their pretensions
since the year 1779, when they wanted a
Grand Lodge of America, "to preside over and
govern all other Lodges of whatsoever degree
or denomination licensed or to be licensed,
on the continent . '
The Grand Lodge of Rhode Island also sub-
mitted the draft of a General Grand Consti-
tution, more extensive in its details than that
presented by New York, but substantially the
same in principle . The Grand Lodge of the
District of Columbia also concurred in the
proposition . The convention did not, how-
ever, meet ; for the idea of a Supreme Grand
Lodge was still an unpopular one with the
Craft . In January, 1850, Texas expressed the
general sentiment of the Fraternity when it
said : "The formation of a General Grand
Lodge will not accomplish the desired end .
The same feeling and spirit that now lead to
difficulties between the different Grand
Lodges would produce insubordination and
disobedience of the edicts of a General Grand
Lodge ."
But another attempt was to be made by its
friends to carry this favorite measure, and a
convention of delegates was held at Lexing-
ton, Ky ., in September, 1853, during the ses-
sion of the General Grand Chapter and En-
campment at that city . This convention did
little more than invite the meeting of a fuller
convention, whose delegates should be clothed
with more plenary powers, to assemble at
Washington in January, 1855 .
The proposed convention met at Washing-
ton, and submitted a series of nine proposi-
tions styled "Articles of Confederation ." The
gist of these articles is to be found in the
initial one, and is in these words : "All matters
of difficult which may hereafter arise in any
Grand Loge, or between two or more Grand
Lodges of the United States, which cannot by
their own action be satisfactorily adjusted or
disposed of, shall, if the importance of the case
or the common welfare of the Fraternity de-
mand it, be submitted, with accompanying
evidence and documents, to the several Grand
Lodges in their individual capacities ; and the
concurrent decision thereon of two-thirds of
the whole number, officially communicated
shall be held authoritative, binding, and final
on all parties concerned ."
The provisions of these articles were to be
GENUFLECTION
considered as ratified, and were to take effect
as soon as they were approved by twenty
Grand Lodges of the United States . It is need-
less to say that this approbation was never re-
ceived, and the proposed confederation failed
to assume a permanent form .
It will be perceived that the whole question
of a General Grand Lodge is here, at once and
in full, abandoned . The proposition was sim-
ply for a confederated league, with scarcely a
shadow of power to enforce its decisions, with
no penal jurisdiction whatsoever, and with no
other authority than that which from time to
time, might be delegated to it by the volun-
tary consent of the parties entering into the
confederation . If the plan had been adopted
the body would, in all probability, have died
in a few years of sheer debility . There was
no principle of vitality to keep it together .
But the friends of a General Grand Lodge
did not abandon the hope of effecting their
object, and in 1857 the Grand Lodge of Maine
issued a circular, urging the formation of a
General Grand Lodge at a convention to be
held at Chicago in September, 1859, during
the session of the General Grand Chapter and
General Grand Encampment at that city .
This call was generally and courteously re-
sponded to ; the convention was held, but it
resulted in a failure . Other attempts have
been made by its friends to carry this measure,
but with no results .
Generalissimo . 	The second officer in a
Commandery of Knights Templar, and one
of its representatives in the Grand Com-
mandery . His duty is to receive and com-
municate all orders, signs, and petitions ; to
assist the Eminent Commander, and, in his
absence, to preside over the Commandery .
His station is on the right of the Eminent
Commander, and his jewel is a square, sur-
mounted by a paschal lamb .
The use of the title in Templarism is of very
recent origin, and peculiar to America . No
such officer was known in the old Order . It is,
besides inappropriate to a subordinate officer,
being derived from the French generalissime,
and that from the Italian generalissimo, both
signifying a supreme commander . It has the
same meaning in English .
Gentleman Mason . 	In some of the old
lectures of the last century this title is used as
equivalent to Speculative Freemason . Thus
they had the following catechism :
"Q . What do you learn by being a Gentle-
man Mason?
"A . Secrecy, Morality, and Good-Fellow-
ship .
"Q . What do you learn by being an Opera-
tive Mason?
"A . Hew, Square, Mould stone, lay a
Level, and raise a Perpendicular ."
Hence we see that Gentleman Mason was in
contrast with Operative Mason .
Genuflection . 	Bending the knees has, in
all ages of the world, been considered as an
act of reverence and humility, and hence Pliny,
the Roman naturalist, observes, that "a cer-
tain degree of religious reverence is attributed

GEOMATIC
to the knees of a man ." Solomon placed him-
self in this position when he prayed at the
consecration of the Temple ; and Masons use
the same posture in some portions of their
ceremonies, as a token of solemn reverence .
In Ancient Craft Masonry, during prayer, it is
the custom for the members` to stand, but in
the higher degrees, kneeling and generally on
one knee, is the more usual !orm .
Geomatic . See Domatic .
Geometrical Master Mason . 	A term in
use in England during the last century . By
the primitive regulations of the Grand Chap-
ter, an applicant for the Royal Arch Degree
was required to produce a certificate that he
was "a Geometrical Master Mason," and had
passed the chair . The word Geometrical was
here synonymous with Speculative .
Geometric Points . 	In the language of
French Masonry, this name is given to the
four cardinal points of the compass, because
they must agree with the four sides of a regular
Temple or Lodge . They are a symbol of reg-
ularity and perfection .
Geometry . In the modern rituals, geom-
etry is said to be the basis on which the super-
structure of Masonry is erected ; and in the
Old Constitutions of the Medieval Freema-
sons of England the most prominent place of
all the sciences is given to geometry, which is
made synonymous- with Masonry . Thus, in
the Regius MS ., which dates not later than the
latter part of the fourteenth century, the Con-
stitutions of Masonry are called "the Con-
stitutions of the art of geometry according to
Euclid," the words geometry and Masonry
being used indifferently throughout the docu-
ment ; and in the Harleian No . 2054 MS . it is
said, "thus the craft Geometry was governed
there, and that worthy Master (Euclid) gave
it the name of Geometry, and it is called
Masonrie in this land long after ." In another
part of the same MS . it is thus defined : "The
fifth science is called Geometry and it teaches
a man to mete and measure of the earth and
other things, which science is Masonrie ."
The Egyptians were undoubtedly one of
the first nations who cultivated geometry as a
science . "It was not less useful and neces-
sary to them," as Goguet observes (Orig .
des Lois ., I ., iv ., 4), "in the affairs of life, than
agreeable to their speculatively philosophical
gemus ." From Egypt, which was the parent
both of the sciences and the mysteries of the
Pagan world, it passed over into other coun-
tries ; and geometry and Operative Masonry
have ever been found together, the latter car-
rying into execution those designs which were
first traced according to the principles of the
former .
Speculative Masonry is, in like manner,
intimately connected with geometry . In def-
erence to our operative ancestors, and, in fact,
as a necessary result of our close connection
with them, Speculative Freemasonry derives
its most important symbols from this parent
science . Hence it is not strange that Euclid,
the most famous of geometricians, should be
spoken of in all the Old Records as a founder
GERMANY 	295
of Masonry in Egypt, and that a special legend
should have been invented in honor of his
memory .
Georgia . 	Freemasonry was introduced at
a very early period into the province of Geor-
gia . Roger Lacey is said to have been the
first Provincial Grand Master, and to him the
warrant for Solomon's Lodge, at Savannah,
was directed in 1735 . Rockwell (Ahim . Rez .,
p . 323) denies this, and thinks that there was
an earlier Lodge organized by Lacey, perhaps
in 1730 . The original warrant of Solomon's
Lodge has, however, been destroyed, and we
have no authentic evidence on the subject ;
although it is very generally conceded that the
introduction of organized Masonry into Geor-
gia does not date later than the year 1735 .
There is no evidence, except tradition, of the
existence of an earlier Lodge . In 1786, the
Independent Grand Lodge of Georgia was
formed, Samuel Elbert, the last Provincial
Grand Master resigning his position to Will-
iam Stephen, who was elected, the first Grand
Master .
Gerbier, Doctor . 	An energetic Mason,
and, as mentioned in The Royal Masonic Cy-
clopcedia, one of their removable Masters of the
ancient Grand Lodge of France . He is said to
have fabricated the title of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France, which it was pretended
had emanated from Edinburgh, in 1721 .
German Union of Two and Twenty .
A secret society founded in Germany, in 1786,
by Dr . Bahrdt, whose only connection with
Freemasonry was that Bahrdt and the twenty-
one others who founded it were Masons, and
that they invited to their cooperation the
most distinguished Masons of Germany .
The founder professed that the object of the
association was to diffuse intellectual light, to
annihilate superstition, and to perfect the
human race . Its instruction was divided into
six degrees, as follows : 1 . The Adolescent ;
2 . The Man ; 3 . The Old Man ; 4 . The Mes-
opolite ; 5 . The Diocesan ; 6 . The Superior .
The first three degrees were considered a pre-
paratory school for the last three, out of which
the rules of the society were chosen . It lasted
only four years, and was dissolved by the im-
prisonment of its founder for a political libel,
most of its members joining the Illuminati .
The publication of a work in 1789 entitled
Mehr Noten als Text, etc ., i . e ., More Notes
than Text, or The German Union of XXII
which divulged its secret organization, tended
to hasten its dissolution . (See Bahrdt .)
Germany . Of all countries Germany plays
the most important part in the history of an-
cient Masonry, since it was there that the
gilds of Operative Stone-Masons first assumed
that definite organization which subsequently
led to the establishment cf Speculative Free-
masonry . But it was not until a later date
that the latter institution obtained a footing
on German soil . Findel (Hist ., p . 238) says
that as early as 1730 temporary Lodges, oc-
cupied only in the communication of Masonic
knowledge and in the study of the ritual, were
formed at different points . But the first reg-

296 	GHLMOUL
ular Lodge was established at Hamburg, in
1733, under a warrant of Lord Strathmore,
Grand Master of England ; which did not,
however, come into active operation until
four years later . Its progress was at first slow ;
and nowhere is Freemasonry now more pop-
ular or more deserving of popularity . Its
scholars have brought to the study of its an-
tiquities and its philosophy all the laborious
research that distinguishes the Teutonic
mind, and the most learned works on these
subjects have emanated from the German
press . The detailed history of its progress
would involve the necessity of no ordinary
volume,
Ghemoul Binah Thebounah . 	(Pru-
dence in the midst of vicissitude .) The name
of the seventh step of the mystical Kadosh
ladder of the A . A . Scottish Rite .
Ghiblim . 	The form in which Dr . Ander-
son spells Giblim . In the Book of Constitutions
(ed . 1738, page 70) it is stated that in 1350
"John de Spoulee, call'd Master of the Ghib-
lim," rebuilt St . George's chapel .
Gibalim . 	A Masonic corruption of Gib-
lim, the Giblites, or men of Gebal . (See Gib-
lim .)
Gibeah . 	A Hebrew word signifying a
"hill," and giving name to several towns and
places in ancient Palestine . The only one
requiring special mention is "Gibeah of
Benjamin," a small city about four miles north
of Jerusalem . It was the residence, if not the
birthplace, of King Saul .
In the French Rite it symbolically refers to
the Master, who must be pure in heart, that
the High and Holy One may dwell therein .
The word is also used in the Swedish Rite .
Giblim . 	Heb ., D~Ma . A significant word
in Masonry . It is the plural of the Gentile
noun Gibli (the g pronounced hard), and
means, according to the idiom of the Hebrew,
Giblites, or inhabitants of the city of Gebal .
The Giblim, or Giblites, are mentioned in
Scripture as assisting Solomon's and Hiram's
builders to prepare the trees and the stones for
building the Temple, and from this passage it
is evident that they were clever artificers .
The passage is in 1 Kings v . 18, and, in our
common version, is as follows : "And Solo-
mon's builders and Hiram's builders did hew
them and the atone-squarers ; so they pre-
pare timber and stones to build the house,"
where the word translated in the authorized
version by stone-squarers is, in the original,
Giblim . 	It is so also in that translation known
as the Bishop's Bible . 	The Geneva version
has masons . 	The French version of Martin
has tailleurs de pierres, following the English ;
but Luther, in his German version, retains the
original word Giblim .
It is probable that the English translation
followed the Jewish Targum, which has a word
of similar import in this passage . The error
has, however, assumed importance in the Ma-
sonic ritual, where Giblim is supposed to be
synonymous with a Mason . And Sir Wm .
Drummond confirms this by saying in his
Origins (vol . iii ., b . v ., ch . iv ., p . 129) that
GILDS
"the Gibalim were Master Masons who put
the finishing hand to King Solomon's Tem-
ple ." 	(See Gebal .)
Gilds . The word gild, guild, or geld, from
the Saxon gildan, to pay, originally meant a
tax or tribute, and hence those fraternities
which, in the early ages contributed sums to a
common stock, were called Gilds . Cowell, the
old English jurist, defines a Gild to be "a fra-
ternity or commonalty of men gathered to-
gether into one combination, supporting their
common charge by mutual contribution ."
Societies of this kind, but not under the
same name, were known to the ancient Greeks
and Romans, and their artificers and traders
were formed into distinct companies which oc-
cupied particular streets named after them .
But according to Dr . Lujo Brentano, who
published, in 1870, an essay on The History and
Development of Gilds, England is the birth-
place of the Medieval Gilds, from whom he
says that the modern Freemasons emerged .
They existed, however, in every countyy of
Europe, and we identify them in the Com-
pagnons de la Tour of France, and the Bau-
corporationen of Germany . The difference
however, was that while they were patronized
by the municipal authorities in England, they
were discouraged by both the Church and
State on the Continent .
The Gilds in England were of three kinds,
Religious Gilds, Merchant Gilds, and Craft
Gilds, specimens of all of which still exist 	al-
though greatly modified in their laws and us-
ages . The Religious or Ecclesiastical Gilds
are principally found in Roman Catholic
countries, where, under the patronage of the
Church, they often accomplish much good by
the direction of their benevolence to particular
purposes . Merchant Gilds are exemplified in
the twelve great Livery Companies of London .
And the modern Trades Unions are nothing
else but Craft Gilds under another name .
But the most interesting point in the history
of the Craft Gilds is the fact that from them
arose the Brotherhoods of the Freemasons .
Brentano gives the following almost ex-
haustive account of the organization and cus-
toms of the Craft Gilds :
"The Craft Gilds themselves first sprang
up amongst the free craftsmen, when they
were excluded from the fraternities which had
taken the place of the family unions, and later
among the bondmen, when they ceased to be-
long to the familia of their lord . Like those
Frith Gilds, the object of the early Craft Gilds
was to create relations as if among brothers ;
and above all things, to grant to their members
that assistance which the member of a family
might expect from that family . As men s
wants had become different, this assistance no
longer concerned the protection of life, limbs,
and property, for this was provided for by the
Frith Gilds, now recognized as the legitimate
authority ; but the principal object of the
Craft Gilds was to secure their members in
the independent unimpaired, and regular
earning of their daily bread by means of their
craft .

GILDS
"The very soul of the Craft Gild was its
meetings, which brought all the Gild brothers
together every week or quarter . These meet-
ings were always held with certain ceremonies,
for the sake of greater solemnity . The box,
having several locks like that of the Trade
Unions, and containing the charters of the
Gild, the statutes, the money, and other val-
uable articles, was opened on such occasions,
and all present had to uncover their heads .
These meetings possessed all the rights which
they themselves had not chosen to delegate .
They elected the presidents (originally called
Aldermen, afterwards Masters and Wardens)
and other officials, except in those cases al-
ready mentioned, in which the Master was
appointed by the king, the bishop, or the au-
thorities of the town . As a rule, the Gilds
were free to choose their Masters, either from
their own members, or from men of higher
rank, though they were sometimes limited in
their choice to the former .
"The Wardens summoned and presided at
the meetings, with their consent enacted or-
dinances for the regulation of the trade, saw
these ordinances properly executed, and
watched over the maintenance of the customs
of the Craft . They had the right to examine
all manufactures, and a right of search for all
unlawful tools and products . They formed,
with the assistance of a quorum of Gild broth-
ers, the highest authority in all the concerns of
the Gild . No Gild member could be arraigned
about trade matters before any other judge .
We have still numerous documentary proofs
of the severity and justice with which the
Wardens exercised their judicial duties . When-
ever they held a court, it was under special
forms and solemnities ; thus, for instance in
1275 the chief Warden of the masons building
Strasburg cathedral held a court sitting under
a canopy .
"Besides being brotherhoods for the care of
the temporal welfare of their members the
Craft Gilds were, like the rest of the Gilds, at
the same time religious fraternities . In the
account of the origin of the Company of Gro-
cers, it is mentioned that at the very first meet-
ing they fixed a stipend for the priest, who had
to conduct their religious services and pray
for their dead . In this respect the Craft Gilds
of all countries are alike ; and in reading their
statutes, one might fancy sometimes that the
old craftsmen cared only for the wellbeing of
their souls . All bad particular saints for pa-
trons, after whom the society was frequently
called ; and, where it was possible, they chose
one who had some relation to their trade .
They founded masses, altars, and painted
windows in cathedrals ; and even at the pres-
ent day their coats of arms and their gifts
range proudly by the side of those of kings and
barons . Sometimes individual Craft Gilds
appear to have stood in special relation to a
particular church, by virtue of which they had
to perform special services, and received in
return a special share in all the prayers of the
clergy of that church . In later times, the
Craft Gilds frequently went in solemn pro-
GILGUL 	297
cession to their churches . We find innumer-
able ordinances also as to the support of the
sick and poor ; and to afford a settled asylum
for distress, the London Companies early
built dwellings near their halls . The chief
care, however, of the Gildmen was always di-
rected to the welfare of the souls of the dead .
Every year a requiem was sung for all departed
Gild brothers, when they were all mentioned
by name ; and on the death of any member,
special services were held for his soul, and dis-
tribution of alms was made to the poor, who,
in return, had to offer up prayers for the dead,
as is still the custom in Roman Catholic coun-
tries ."
In a History of the English Guilds, edited by
Toulmin Smith from old documents in the
Record Office at London, and published by
the Early English Text Society, we find many
facts confirmatory of those given by Bren-
tano, as to the organization of these Gilds .
The testimony of these old records shows
that a religious element pervaded the Gilds,
and exercised a very powerful influence over
them . Women were admitted to all of them,
which Herbert (Liv . Comp ., i ., 83) thinks was
borrowed from the Ecclesiastical Gilds of
Southern Europe ; and the brethren and sis-
ters were on terms of complete equality . There
were fees on entrance, yearly and special pay-
ments, and fines for wax for lights to burn at
the altar or in funeral rites . The Gilds had
set days of meeting, known as "morning
speeches," or "days of spekyngges totiedare
for here comune profyte," and a grand festival
on the patron saint's day, when the members
assembled for worship, almsgiving, feasting,
and for nourishing of brotherly love . Mystery
plays were often performed . They had a
treasure-chest, the opening of which was a
sign that business had begun . While it re-
mained open all stood with uncovered heads,
when cursing and swearing and all loose con-
duct were severely punished . The Gild prop-
erty consisted of land, cattle, money, etc . The
expenditure was on the sick poor and aged, in
making good losses by robbery etc . Loans
were advanced pilgrims assisted, and, in one
city, "any good girl of the Gild" was to have a
dowry on marriage, if her father could not pro-
vide it . Poor travelers were lodged and fed .
Roads were kept in repair, and churches were
sustained and beautified . They wore a par-
ticular costume, which was enforced by their
statutes, whence come the liveries of the Lon-
don Companies of the present day and the
"clothing
Companies
of the Freemasons .
An investigation of the usages of these
Medieval Gilds, and a comparison of their
regulations with the old Masonic Constitu-
tions, will furnish a fertile source of interest
to the Masonic archeologist, and will throw
much light on the early history of Freema-
sonry . (See Gilds in Eleventh Edition of the
Britannica Cyclopedia .)
Gilead . See Galahad .
Gilgul, Doctrine of. 	We learn from Bro .
Kenneth R . H . Mackenzie's Royal Masonic
Cyclopwdia that "Certain of the learned Jews

298 	GILKES
have believed, for many centuries, in the doc-
trine of Gilgul, according to which the bodies
of Jews deposited in foreign tombs contain
within them a principle of soul which cannot
rest until, by a process called by them `the
whirling of the soul,' the immortal particle
reaches once more the sacred soil of the Prom-
ised Land . This whirling of souls was sup-
posed to be accomplished by a process some-
what similar to that of the metempsychosis of
the Hindus, the psychical spark being con-
veyed through bird, beast, or fish, and, some-
times, the most minute insect . The famous
Rabbi Akiba (followed by the Rabbis Judah
and Meir) declared that none could come to
the resurrection save those of the Jews who
were buried in the Holy Land, or whose re-
mains were, in the process of ages, gradually
brought thither . IPicart's wonderful and
laborious work there are many references to
this doctrine . The learned may consult fur-
ther authorities on this curious subject in the
Kabbala Denudata of Heinrich Khunrath,
1677 ."
Gilkes, Peter William . 	Born in London
in 1765, and died in 1833 . 	He was cele-
brated for his perfect knowledge of the ritual
of Ancient Craft Masonry according to the
English ritual, which he successfully taught
for many years . His reputation in England as
a Masonic teacher was very great .
Girdle . 	In ancient symbology the girdle
was always considered as typical of chastity
and purity . In the Brahmanical initiations,
the candidate was presented with the Zennar,
or sacred cord,. as a part of the sacred gar-
ments ; and Gibbon says that "at the age of
puberty the faithful Persian was invested
with a mysterious g irdle ; fifteen genuflec-
tions were required after he put on the sacred
girdle ." The old Templars assumed the obli-
gations of poverty, obedience, and chastity ;
and a girdle was given them, at their initia-
tion, as a symbol of the last of the three vows .
As a symbol of purity, the girdle is still used
in many chivalric initiations, and may be
properly considered as the analogue of the
Masonic apron .
Glaire, Peter Maurice . A distinguished
Mason, who was born in Switzerland in 1743,
and died in 1819 . 	In 1764, he went to Poland,
and became the intimate friend of King
Stanislaus Poniatowski, who confided to him
man y important diplomatic missions . Dur-
ing his residence in Poland, Glaire greatly
patronized the Freemasons of that kingdom,
and established there a Rite of seven degrees .
He returned to Switzerland in 1788, where
he continued to exercise an interest in Free-
masonry and in 1810 was elected Grand
Master for three y ears, and in 1813 for life,
of the Roman Grand Orient of Helvetia,
which body adopted his Rite .
Glastonbury, Holy Thorn of . There
is an ancient market town in County Somer-
set, Eng ., with a po p ulation of 3,700 . which
owes its origin to a celebrated abbey, founded,
according to tradition, in 60 A .D . 	We are
further told that Joseph of Arimathea was
GLOBE
the founder, and the "miraculous thorn"
which flowered on Christmas day was believed
by the common people to be the veritable
staff with which Joseph aided his steps from
the Holy Land . The tree was destroyed
during the civil wars, but grafts flourish in
neighboring gardens . 	Glastonbury has the
honor of ranking St . Patrick (415 A .D .) and
St . Dunstan among its abbots . 	In 1539,
Henry VIII . summoned Abbot Whiting to
surrender the town and all its treasures, and
on his refusal condemned him to be hanged
and quartered, and the monastery confiscated
to the king's use, which sentence was imme-
diately carried into execution . King Arthur
is said to be buried in this place .
Gleason, Benjamin . 	A lecturer and
teacher of the Masonic ritual, according to
the system of Webb, in the Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts, from 1806 to 1842 . 	Gleason
is said to have been a man of liberal education,
and a graduate in 1802 of Brown University .
He became soon after a pupil of Thomas
Smith Webb, whose lectures he taught in
Massachusetts and elsewhere . The asser-
tion of some writers that Gleason went to
England and lectured before the Grand
Lodge of England, which recognized his or
Webb's system as being the same as that of
Preston, is highly improbable and wants
confirmation .
Globe . 	In the Second Degree, the celestial
and terrestrial globes have been adopted as
s 	bols of the universal extension of the
s
rder, and as suggestive of the universal
claims of brotherly love . The symbol is a
very ancient one, and is to be found in the
religious systems of many countries . Among
the Mexicans the globe was the symbol of
universal power . But the Masonic symbol
appears to have been derived from, or at
least to have an allusion to the Egyptian
ymbol of the winged globe . 	t here is nothing
more common among the Egyptian monu-
ments than the symbol of a globe supported
on each side by a ser pe nt, and accompanied
with wings extended wide beyond them,
occupying nearly the whole of the entab-
lature above the entrance of many of their
temples . We are thus reminded of the
globes on the pillars at the entrance of the
Temple of Solomon . The winged globe,
as the symbol of Cneph, the Creator Sun,
was adopted by the Egyptians as their nation-
al device, as the Lion is that of England, or
the Eagle of the United States . In the
eighteenth chapter of Isaiah (v . i .), where
the authorized version of King James's Bible
has "Woe to the land shadowing with wins, "
Lowth, after Bochart, translates, "Hol to
the land of the winged cymbal," supposing
the Hebrew ~3 7 .V to mean the sistrum
which was a round instrument, consisting of
a broad rim of metal, having rods pass-
ing through it, and some of which, extend-
ing beyond the sides, would, says Bishop
Lowth, have the appearance of wings, and
be expressed by the same Hebrew word .
But _ Rosellini translates the passage differ-

GLORY
ently, and says, "Ho, land of the winged
globe . "
Dudley, in his Naology (p . 13), says that
the knowledge of the spherical figure of the
earth was familiar to the Egyptians in the
early ages, in which some of their temples
were constructed . Of the round figure
described above, he says that although it be
called a globe, an egg, the symbol of the world
was perhaps intended ; and he thinks that
if the globes of the Egyptian entablatures
were closely examined, they would perhaps
be found of an oval shape, figurative of the
creation, and not bearing any reference to
the form of the world .
The interpretation of the Masonic globes,
as a symbol of the universality of Masonry,
would very well agree with the idea of the
Egyptian symbol referring to the extent of
creation . That the globes on the pillars,
placed like the Egyptian symbol before
the temple, were a representation of the
celestial and terrestrial globes, is a very
modern idea . In the passage of the Book
of Kings, whence Masonry has derived its
ritualistic description, it is said (1 Kings
vii . 16), "And he made two chapiters of
molten brass, to set upon the tops of the
pillars ." In the Masonic ritual it is said
that "the pillars were surmounted by two
pomels or globes ." 	Now pomel, J , r ice, is
the very word employed by Rabbi Solomon
in his commentary on this passage, a word
which signifies a globe or spherical body .
The Masonic globes were really the chap-
iters described in the Book of Kings . Again
it is said (1 Kings vii . 22), "U5pon the top
of the pillars was lily work . ' 	We now
know that the plant here called the lily was
really the lotus, or the Egyptian water-lily .
But among the Egyptians the lotus was a
symbol of the universe ; and hence, although
the Masons in their ritual have changed the
expanded flower of the lotus, which crowned
the chapiter and surmounted each pillar
of the porch, into a globe, they have retained
the interpretation of universality . The Egyp-
tian globe or egg and lotus or lily and the
Masonic globe are all symbols of something
universal, and the Masonic idea has only
restricted by a natural impulse the idea to
the universality of the Order and its benign
influences . But it is a pity that Masonic
ritualists did not preserve the Egyptian and
Scriptural symbol of the lotus surrounding
a ball or sphere, and omit the more modern
figures of globes celestial and terrestrial .
Glory, Symbol of . The Blazing Star
in the old lectures was called "the glory
in the center," because it was placed in the
center of the floor-cloth, and represented
the glorious name of Deity . Hence, Dr .
Oliver gives to one of his most interesting
works, which treats of the symbolism of the
Blazing Star, the title of The Symbol of Glory 	.
Gloves . In the continental Rites of
Masonry, as practised in France, in Ger-
many, and in other countries of Europe, it
is an invariable custom to present the new-
GLOVES 	299
ly initiated candidate not only, as we do,
with a white leather apron, but also with
two pair of white kid gloves-one a man's
pair for himself, and the other a woman's-
to be presented by him in turn to his wife
or his betrothed, according to the custom
of the German Masons, or, according to the
French, to the female whom he most esteems,
which, indeed, amounts, or should amount,
to the same thing .
There is in this, of course, as there is
in everything else which pertains to Free-
masonry, a symbolism . The gloves given
to the candidate for himself are intended
to teach him that the acts of a Mason should
be as pure and spotless as the gloves now
given to him . In the German Lodges, the
word used for acts is, of course, handlung,
or handlings, "the works of his hands," which
makes the symbolic idea more impressive .
Dr . Robert Plot-no friend of Masonry,
but still a historian of much research-
says, in his Natural History of Staffordshire,
that the Society of Freemasons in his time
(and be wrote in 1686) presented their can-
didates with gloves for themselves and their
wives . This shows that the custom, still
preserved on the Continent of Euro p e, once
was practised in England ; although there,
as well as in America, it is discontinued,
which is perhaps to be regretted .
But although the presentation of the
gloves to the candidate is no longer prac-
tised as a ceremony in England or America,
yet the use of them as a part of the proper
professional clothing of a Mason m the
duties of the Lodge or in processions, is
still retained ; and in many well-regulated
Lodges the members are almost as regularly
clothed in their white gloves as in their
white aprons .
The symbolism of the gloves, it will be
admitted, is in fact but a modification of
that of the apron . They both signify the
same thing, both are allusive to a purification
of life . "Who shall ascend," says the
Psalmist, "into the hill of the Lord? or who
shall stand in his holy place? He that
hath clean hands and a pure heart ." The
apron may be said to refer to the "pure
heart" ; the gloves, to the "clean hands ."
Both are significant of purification-of that
purification which was always symbolized
by the ablution which preceded the ancient
initiations into the sacred mysteries . But
while our American and English Masons
have adhered only to the apron, and rejected
the gloves as a Masonic symbol, the latter
appear to be far more important in symbolic
science, because the allusions to pure or
clean hands are abundant in all the ancient
writers .
"Hands," says Wemyss, in his Clavis
Symbolica, "are the symbols of human ac-
tions-pure hands are pure actions ; unjust
hands are deeds of injustice . 	There are
numerous references in sacred or profane
writers to this symbolism . The washing
of the hands has the outward sign of an

300 	GLOVES
internal purification . 	Hence, the Psalmist
says, "I will wash my hands in innocence,
and I will encompass thine altar, Jehovah ."
In the Ancient Mysteries, the washing of
the hands was always an introductory cere-
mony to the initiation, and, of course, it
was used symbolically to indicate the ne-
cessity of purity from crime as a qualifica-
tion of those who sought admission into
the sacred Rites- and hence on a temple in
the island of Crete this inscription was
placed : "Cleanse your feet, wash your hands,
and then enter ."
h
p
Indeed, the washing of hands, as sym-
bolic of purity, was among the ancients a
peculiarly religious rite . No one dared to
ray to the gods until he had cleansed his
ands . Thus, Homer makes Hector say,
"I dread with unwashed hands to bring
My incensed wine to Jove an offering ."
t
The same practise existed among the
Jews ; and a striking instance of the sym-
bolism is exhibited in that well-known ac-
tion of Pilate, who when the Jews clamored
for Jesus that tiey might crucify him,
appeared before the people, and, having
aken water, washed his h ands, saying at
the same time, "I am innocent of the blood
of this just man . See ye to it ." In the
Christian church of the Middle Ages, gloves
were always worn by bishops or priests
when in the performance of ecclesiastical
functions . They were made of linen and
were white ; and Durandus, a celebrated
ritualist, says that "by the white gloves
were denoted chastity and purity, because
the hangs were thus kept clean and free
from all impurity ."
There is no necessity to extend examples
any further . There is no doubt that the
use of the gloves in Masonry is a symbolic
idea, borrowed from the ancient and uni-
versal language of symbolism, and was in-
tended, like the apron, to denote the neces-
sity of purity of life .
The builders, who associated in com-
panies, who traversed Europe and were en-
gaged in the construction of palaces and
cathedrals, have left to us, as their de-
scendants, their name, their technical lan-
guage, and the apron, that distinctive piece
of clothing by which they protected their
garments from the pollutions of their labo-
rious employment . Did they also bequeath
to us their gloves? This is a question which
some modern discoveries will at last enable
us to solve .
M . Didron, in his Annales Arehfo 	s,
presents us with an engraving copied rom
the painted glass of a window in the Cathe-
dral of Chartres, in France . The painting
was executed in the thirteenth century, and
represents a number of Operative Masons
at work . 	Three of them are adorned with
laurel crowns . May not these be intended
to represent the three officers of a Lodge?
All of the Masons wear gloves . M . Didron
remarks that in the old documents which
GNOSTICS
he has examined mention is often made of
gloves which are intended to be presented
to Masons and stone-cutters . In a subse-
quent number of the Annales, he gives the
following three examples of this fact :
In the year 1331, the Chatelan of Vil-
laines, in Duemois, bought a considerable
quantity of gloves to be given to the work-
men in order, as it is said, "to shield their
hands from the stone and lime ."
In October, 1383, as he learns from a
document of that period, three dozen pair
of gloves were bought and distributed to
the Masons when they commenced the build-
ings at the Chartreuse of Dijon .
And, lastly, in 1486 or 1487, twenty-two
pair of gloves were given to the Masons
and stone-cutters who were engaged in work
at the city of Amiens .
It is thus evident that the builders-the
Operative Masons--of the Middle Ages wore
gloves to protect their hands from the effects
of their work . It is equally evident that
the Speculative Masons have received from
their operative predecessors the gloves as
well as the apron, both of which, being
used by the latter for practical uses, have
been, in the spirit of symbolism, appropri-
ated by the former to "a more noble and
glorious purpose ."
Gnostics . The general name of Gnostics
has been employed to designate several sects
that sprung up in the eastern parts of the
Roman Empire about the time of the advent
of Christianity ; although it is supposed that
their principal doctrines had been taught
centuries before in many of the cities of
Asia Minor . The word Gnosticism is derived
from the Greek Gnosis or knowledge, and
was a term used in the earliest days of phi-
losophy to signify the science of Divine things,
or, as Matter says, "superior or celestial knowl-
edge ." 	He thinks the word was first used
by the Jewish philosophers of the famous
school of Alexandria . The favorite opinion
of scholars is that the sect of Gnostics arose
among the philosophers who were the con-
verts of Paul and the other Apostles, and who
sought to mingle the notions of the Jewish
Egyptian school, the speculations of the Kab-
balists, and the Grecian and Asiatic doc-
trines with the simpler teachings of the new
religion which they had embraced . They
believed that the writings of the Apostles
enunciated only the articles of the vulgar
faith ; but that there were esoteric traditions
which had been transmitted from generation
to generation in mysteries, to which they
gave the name of Gnosticism or Gnosis . King
says (Gnostics, p . 7) that they drew the
materials out of which they constructed their
system from two religions, viz ., the Zend-
Avesta and its modifications in the Kabbala,
and the reformed Brahmanical religion, as
taught by the Buddhist missionaries .
Notwithstanding the large area of country
over which this system of mystical philoso-
phy extended, and the number of different
sects that adopted it, the same fundamental

GOAT
doctrine was everywhere held by the chiefs
of Gnosticism . This was that the visible
creation was not the wort of the Supreme
Deity, but of the Demiurgus, a simple
emanation, and several degrees removed
from the Godhead . To the 	, latter, indeed,
styled by them "the unknown Father,"
they attributed the creation of the intellectual
world, the Eons and Angels, while they
made the creation of the world of matter
the work of the Demiurgus .
Gnosticism abounded in symbols and
legends, in talismans and amulets, many
of which were adopted into the popular
superstitions of the Medieval ages . It is,
too, interesting to the student of Masonic
antiquities because of its remote connection
with that Order, some of whose symbols
have been indirectly traced to a Gnostic
origin . The Druses of Mount Lebanon
were supposed to be a sect of Gnostics ; and
the constant intercourse which was main-
tained during the Crusades between Europe
and Syria produced an effect upon the
Western nations through the influence of
the pilgrims and warriors .
Toward the Manicheans, the most promi-
nent offshoot of Gnosticism, the Templars
exercised a tolerant spirit very inconsistent
with the professed objects of their original
foundation, which led to the charge that
they were affected by the dogmas of Mani-
cheism .
The strange ceremonies observed in the
initiation into various secret societies that
existed in the Lower Empire are said to
have been modeled on the Gnostic Rites of
the Mithraic Cave .
The architects and stone-masons of the
Middle Ages borrowed many of the princi-
ples of ornamentation, by which they deco-
rated the ecclesiastical edifices which they
constructed, from the abstruse symbols of
the Gnostics .
So, too, we find Gnostic symbols in the Her-
metic Philosophy and in the system of Ro-
sicrucianism ; and lastly, many of the sym-
bols still used by Freemasonry-such, for
instance, as the triangle within a circle, the
letter G, and the pentacle of Solomon-
have been traced to a Gnostic source .
Goat, Riding the . 	The vulgar idea
that "riding the goat" constitutes a part
of the ceremonies of initiation in a Masonic
Lodge has its real origin in the superstition
of antiquity . The old Greeks and Romans
portrayed their mystical god Pan in horns
and hoof and shaggy hide, and called him
"goat-footed ." When the demonology of
the classics was adopted and modified by
the early Christians, Pan gave way to Satan,
who naturally inherited his attributes ; so
that to the common mind the Devil was
represented by a he-goat, and his best known
marks were the horns, the beard, and the
cloven hoofs . Then came the witch stories
of the Middle Ages, and the belief in the
witch orgies, where, it was said, the Devil
appeared riding on a goat . 	These orgies
GODFATHER 	301
of the witches, where, amid fearfully blas-
phemous ceremonies, they practised initiation
into their Satanic Rites, became, to the
vulgar and the illiterate, the type of the
Masonic Mysteries ; for, as Dr . Oliver says,
it was in England a common belief that the
Freemasons were accustomed in their Lodges
"to raise the Devil ." So the "riding of the
goat," which was believed to be practised
by the witches, was transferred to the Free-
masons ; and the saying remains to this day
although the belief has very long since died
out .
G . O . D . 	The initials of Gomer, Oz
Dabar . It is a singular coincidence, and
worthy of thought, that the letters com-
posing the English name of Deity should
be the initials of the Hebrew words wisdom,
strength, and beauty ; the three great pillars,
or metaphorical supports, of Masonry . They
seem to present almost the only reason that
can reconcile a Mason to the use of the
initial "G" in its conspicuous suspension
in the East of the Lodge in place of the
Delta . The incident seems to be more than
an accident .
1~ - 1 Dabar, Wisdom, D .
ty 	Oz, 	Strength, O .
In ; Gomer, Beauty, G .
Thus the initials conceal the true meaning
God . 	A belief in the existence of God
is an essential point of Speculative Masonry-
so essential, indeed, that it is a landmark of
the Order that no Atheist can be made a
Mason . Nor is this left to an inference ;
for a specific declaration to that effect is
demanded as an indispensable preparation
for initiation . And hence Hutchinson says
that the worship of God "was the first and
corner-stone on which our originals thought
it expedient to place the foundation of Ma-
sonry ." The religion of Masonry is cosmo-
politan, universal ; but the required belief
in God is not incompatible with this universal-
ity ; for it is the belief of all peoples . "Be
assured," says Godfrey Higgins, "that God
is equally present with the pious Hindoo
in the temple, the Jew in the synagogue, the
Mohammedan in the mosque, and the Chris-
tian in the church ." There never has been a
time since the revival of Freemasonry, when
this belief in God as a superintending power
did not form a part of the system . The
very earliest rituals that are extant, going
back almost to the beginning of the eighteenth
century, contain precisely the same question
as to the trust in God which is found in
those of the present day ; and the oldest man-
uscript constitutions, dating as far back as
the fifteenth century at least, all commence
with, or contain, an invocation to the
"Mighty Father of Heaven ." There never
was a time when the dogma did not form
an essential part of the Masonic system .
God and His Temple, Knight of . 	A
degree mentioned by Fustier .
Godfather . 	In French Lodges the mem-
ber who introduces a candidate for initiation
is called his "parrain," or "godfather ."

302 	GOETHE
Goethe, 	John 	Wolfgang 	von . 	This
illustrous German poet was much attached
to Freemasonry . He was initiated on the
eve of the festival of St . John the Baptist,
in 1780 ; and on the eve of the same festival
in 1830, the Masons of Weimar celebrate
the semi-centennial anniversary of his ad-
mission into the Order, of which, in a letter
to the musical composer, Zeeter, who had
been, like himself, initiated on the same day
fifty years before, he speaks with great
gratification as his "Masonic jubilee ." He
says, "The gentlemen have treated this
epoch with the greatest courtesy . I respond-
ed to it in the most friendly manner on the
following day ." Goethe's writings contain
many favorable allusions to the Institution .
Goetla . 	A 	contradistinctive term to
Theurgia, the first signifying black magic
the latter white magic . The demons oi
darkness were invoked and no crime or
horror stayed the power . Alchemy and
chemistry were the powerful arms relied on .
Golden Candlestick . 	The golden candle-
stick which was made by Moses for the
service of the tabernacle, and was after-
ward deposited in the holy place of the
temple to throw light upon the altar of
incense, and the table of shewbread, was
made wholly of pure gold, and had seven
branches ; that is, three on each side, and
one in the center . These branches were at
equal distances, and each one was adorned
with flowers like lilies, gold knobs after the
form of an apple, and similar ones resembling
an almond . Upon the extremities of the
branches were seven golden lamps, which
were fed with pure olive-oil, and lighted
every evening by the priests on duty . Its
seven branches are explained in the Ineffable
degrees as symbolising the seven planets .
It is also used as a decoration in Chapters of
the Royal Arch, but apparently without any
positive symbolic signification .
Golden Fleece . 	In the lecture of the
First Degree, it is said of the Mason's apron,
that it is "more ancient than the Golden
Fleece or Roman Eagle, more honorable
than the Star and Garter ." The reference
is here evidently not to the Argonautic
expedition in search of the golden fleece,
nor to the deluge, of which that event is
supposed to have been a figure, as Dr . Oliver
incorrectly supposes (Symb . Dict .), but to
certain decorations of honor with which
the apron is compared . The eagle was to
the Romans the ensign of imperial power ;
the Order of the Golden Fleece was of high
repute as an Order of Knighthood . It was
established in Flanders, in 1429, by the
Duke of Burgundy, who selected the fleece
for its badge because wool was the staple
production of the country . It has ever
been considered, says Clark one of the
most illustrious Orders in Europe . The
Order of the Garter was, and is still con-
sidered, the highest decoration that can be
bestowed upon a subject by a sovereign of
Great Britain . Thus, the apron is proudly
GON1 ALGN
compared with the noblest decorations of
ancient Rome and of modem Europe . But
the Masons may have been also influenced
in their selection of a reference to the Golden
Fleece, by the fact that in the Middle Ages
it was one of the most important symbols
of the Hermetic philosophers .
Golden Key, Knight 	of 	the . 	See
Knight of the Golden Key .
Golden Lion of Hesse-Cassel, Order
of the . 	Instituted by Frederick II ., 14th
of August, 1770, under a decree of 6th July,
to 	recompense virtue and merit . The
Grand Master is the reigning sovereign of
Hesse-Cassel . Motto, "Virtute et Fideli-
tate . "
Golden 	Stole 	of 	Venice . 	(Cavaliers
delta Stola d'Oro .) 	An ancient order of
knighthood conferred by the republic of
Venice . The number of knights was un-
limited . The decoration, wom over the
left shoulder, was richly embroidered with
flowers of gold, and being in width a hand-
breadth, fell behind and before to the knee .
An ambassador, for some distinctive service,
was deemed worthy . The ducal robe was
of red material .
Gold Thaler, or Gold Giilden, we are
informed in Kenning's Cyclopcedia of Free-
masonry, is the St . John's offering, as it
was called under the strict observance in
Germany, and which amounted to one ducat,
or, at the least, one and two-thirds of a
thaler, which was paid by every member
on St . John's Day . This practise is still
kept up in many German Lodges for the
benefit of the poor fund .
Golgotha . 	Greek, roxyoSa, 	from 	the
Hebrew, r*~, Gulgoleth, "a skull ." The
name given by the Jews to Calvary, the
place of Christ's crucifixion and burial .
It is a significant word in Templar Masonry .
(See Calvary .)
Gomel . 	(Heb ., 	7Y`a, 	L ., 	retribuens .)
Irregularly given as Gomer and Gomez . A
word found in the Twenty-sixth Degree A .
A . Scottish Rite, signifying reward .
Gonfalon 	(Ital ., Gonfalon, O . German,
Gundfano .) .
An ecclesiastical war flag or
banner, a standard ; used in several of the
chivalric degrees of Masonry . The chief
magistrates in Italian cities when bearing
this ensign are known as Gonfaloniers . The
banner is triune, of white silk, trimmed and
mounted with gold .

GOODALL
Goodall . 	The reputed author of the
exposure of Masonry, known as "Jachin and
Boaz ." It is said that he was at one time
Master of the W . India and American Lodge,
now known as the Lodge of Antiquity . but
this statement has never been confirmed .
Good Samaritan . 	An 	androgynous,
honorary or side degree conferred in the
United States with rather impressive cere-
monies . It is, of course, as a degree to be
conferred on females, unconnected with
Masonic history or traditions, but draws its
allusions from the fate of Lot's wife, and
from the parable of the Good Samaritan
related in the Gospels . The passages of
Scripture which refer to these events are
read during the ceremony of initiation . This
degree is to be conferred only on Royal
Arch Masons and their wives, and in con-
ferring it two Good Samaritans must always
be present, one of whom must be a Royal
Arch Mason . Much dignity and importance
bas been given to this degree by its possessors ;
and it is usual in many places for a certain
number of Good Samaritans to organize
themselves into regular, but of course inde-
pendent, bodies to hold monthly meetings
under the name of Assemblies, to elect
proper officers, and receive applications for
initiation . In this manner the assemblies
of Good Samaritans, consisting of male and
female members, bear a very near resem-
blance to the female Lodges, which, under
the name of "Maconnerie d'Adoption,"
prevail in France .
Good 	Shepherd . 	Our 	Savior called
himself the Good Shepherd . Thus, in
St . John's Gospel (x . 14, 15, 16), he says :
"I am the Good Shepherd, and know my
sheep, and am known of mine . As the
Father knoweth me, even so know I the
Father : and I lay down my life for the sheep .
And other sheep I have, which are not of
this fold : them also must I bring, and they
shall hear my voice ; and there shall be one
fold, and one Shepherd ." Hence, in Ma-
sonic as well as in Christian symbolism,
Christ is naturally called the Good Shepherd .
Good Shepherd, Sign of the . 	When
Jesus was relating (Luke xv .) the parable
in which one having lost a sheep goes into
the wilderness to search for it he said : "And
when he hath found it, he layeth it * on his
shoulders, rejoicing ." Mr . Hettner, a Ger-
man writer on Greek customs, says : "When
the Greek carries home his lamb, he slings
it round his neck, holding it by the feet
crossed over the breast . This is to be seen
with us also, but the sight is especially
attractive at Athens, for it was in this manner
that the ancients represented Hermes as
the guardian and multiplier of flocks ; so
stood the statue of Hermes at Olympia,
Occhalia, and Tanagra . Small marble statues
of this kind have even come down to us, one
of which is to be seen in the Pembroke col-
lection at Wilton House ; another, a smaller
one, in the Stoa of Hadrian, at Athens .
This representation, however, appears most
GORMOGONS 	303
frequently in the oldest works of Christian
art, in which the laden Hermes is turned
into a laden Christ, who often called him-
self the Good Shepherd, and expressly says
in the Gospel of St . Luke, that when the
shepherd finds the sheep, he lays it joyfully
on his shoulder ."
Now, although the idea of the Good
Shepherd may have been of Pagan origin,
yet derived from the parable of our Savior
in St . Luke and his language in St . John,
it was early adopted by the Christians as a
religious emblem . The Good Shepherd bear-
ing the sheep upon his shoulders, the two
hands of the Shepherd crossed upon his
breast and holding the legs of the sheep,
is a very common subject in the paintings
of the earliest Christian era . It is an ex-
pressive symbol of the Savior's love-of
him who taught us to build the new temple
of eternal life-and, consequently, as Didron
says, "the heart and imagination of Christians
have dwelt fondly upon this theme ; it has
been unceasingly repeated under every
possible aspect, and may be almost said to
have been worn threadbare by Christian
art . From the earliest ages, Christianity
completely made it her own ." 	And hence
the Christian degree of Rose Croix has very
naturally appropriated the "sign of the
Good Shepherd," the representation of
Christ bearing his once lost but now recovered
sheep upon his shoulders, as one of its most
impressive symbols .
Goose and Gridiron . 	An alehouse with
this sign, in St . Paul's Church Yard, London .
In 1717, the Lodge of Antiquity met at the
Goose and Gridiron, and it was there that
the first quarterly communication of the
Grand Lodge of England, after the revival
of 1717, was held on the 24th of June, 1717 .
It was the headquarters of a musical society,
whose arms-a lyre and a swan-were con-
verted into Goose and Gridiron .
Gormogons . 	A 	secret society estab-
lished in 1724, in England, in opposition
to Freemasonry . One of its rules was that
no Freemason could be admitted until he
was first degraded, and had then renounced
the Masonic Order . It was absurdly and
intentionally pretentious in its character ;
claiming, in ridicule of Freemasonry, a great
antiquity, and pretending that it was de-
scended from an ancient society in China .
There was much antipathy between the
two associations, as will appear from the
following doggerel, published in 1729, by
Henry Carey :
"The Masons and the Gormogons
Are laughing at one another,
While all mankind are laughing at them ;
Then why do they make such a pother?
"They bait their hook for simple gulls,
And truth with bam they smother ;
But when they 've taken in their culls,
Why then 't is-Welcome, Brother!"
The Gormogons made a great splutter in
their day, and published many squibs against

304 	GOTHIC
Freemasonry ; yet that is still living, while
the Gormogons were long ago extinguished .
They seemed to have flourished for but a
very few years .
[Bro . R . F . Gould has collected all that
is known about the Gormogons in his article
on the Duke of Wharton, in vol . viii . of
Ars Quatuor Coronatorum .]
Gothic Architecture . 	Of all the styles
of architecture, the Gothic is that which is
most intimately connected with the history
of Freemasonry, having been the system
peculiarly practised by the Freemasons of
the Middle Ages . To what country or
people it owes its origin has never been
satisfactorily determined ; although it has
generally been conjectured that it was of
Arabic or Saracenic extraction, and that it
was introduced into Europe by persons
returning from the Crusades . The Christians
who had been in the Holy Wars received
there an idea of the Saracenic works, which
they imitated on their return to the West,
and refined on them as they proceeded in
the building of churches . The Italians,
Germans, French, and Flemings, with Greek
refugees, united in a fraternity of architects
and ranged from country to country, and
erected buildings according to the Gothic
style, which they had learned during their
visits to the East, and whose fundamental
principles they improved by the addition of
other details derived from their own archi-
tectural taste and judgment . Hence Sir
Christopher Wren thinks that this style of the
Medieval Freemasons should be rather called
the Saracenic than the Gothic . This style,
which was distinguished, by its pointed arches,
and especially by the perpendicularity of its
lines, from the rounded arch and horizontal
lines of previous styles, was altogether in the
hands of those architects who were known,
from the tenth to the sixteenth centuries, as
Freemasons, and who kept their system of
building as a secret, and thus obtained an en-
tire monopoly of both domestic and ecclesias-
tical architecture . At length, when the gilds
or fraternities of Freemasons, "who alone,"
says Mr . Hope, "held the secrets of Gothic
art " were dissolved, the style itself was lost,
and was succeeded by what Paley says (Man .
of Goth . Arch ., p . 15) was "a worse than
brazen era of architecture ." (For further de-
tails, see Traveling Freemasons .)
Gothic Constitutions . A title sometimes
given to the Constitutions which are supposed
to have been adopted by the Freemasons at
the City of York, in the tenth century, and so
called in allusion to the Gothic architecture
which was introduced into England by the
Fraternity . A more correct and more usual
designation of these laws is the York Consti-
tutions, which see .
Gould, Robert Freke . 	This well-known
historian of Freemasonry has had a very va-
ried career . Born in 1836, he entered the Eng-
lish army at the age of eighteen, becoming a
lieutenant in the same year, and serving with
distinction in North China in 1860-2 . On
GRAMMAR
his return to England he studied law and be-
came a barrister in 1868 .
He was initiated at Ramsgate in the Royal
Navy Lodge, No . 429, and was Master of the
Inhabitants' Lodge at Gibraltar, also of the
Meridian Lodge, No . 743, a Military Lodge
attached to his regiment . Afterward he held
the Chair of the Moira, Quatuor Coronati and
Jerusalem Lodges . In 1880 he was appointed
Senior Grand Deacon of England .
He has been a constant writer in the Ma-
sonic press since 1858 ; in 1879 he published
The Four Old Lodges and The Atholl Lodges,
and in 1899 a book on Military Lodges .
But his "magnum opus" is his stupendous
History of Freemasonry in three large volumes,
which occupied him from 1882 to 1887, which
was followed in 1903 by A Concise History of
Freemasonry abridged from the larger work
and brought up to date . 	[E . L . H .]
Gourgas, John James Joseph . 	A mer-
chant of New York, who was born in France
in 1777, and received a member of the Scot-
tish Rite in 1806 . 	His name is intimately
connected with the rise and progress of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite in the
Northern Jurisdiction of the United States .
Through his representations and his inde-
fatigable exertions, the Mother Council at'
Charleston was induced to denounce the Con-
sistory of Joseph Cerneau in the City of New
York, and to establish there a Supreme Coun-
cil for the Northern Jurisdiction, of which
Bro . Gourgas was elected the Secretary-Gen-
eral . He continued to hold this office until
1832, when he was elected Sovereign Grand
Commander . In 1851, on the removal of the
Grand East of the Supreme Council to Boston,
he resigned his office in favor of Bro . Giles
Fonda Yates, but continued to take an active
interest, so far as his age would permit, in the
Rite until his death, which occurred at New
York on February 14, 1865, at the ripe old age
of eighty-eight, and being at the time prob-
ably the oldest possessor of the Thirtieth De-
gree in the world . Bro . Gourgas was dis-
tinguished for the purity of his life and the
powers of his intellect . His Masonic library
was very valuable, and especially rich in man-
uscripts . His correspondence with Dr . Moses
Holbrook . at one time Grand Commander of
the Southern Council, is in the Archives of
that body, and bears testimony to his large
Masonic attainments .
Grades . 	Degrees in Masonry are some-
times so called . It is a French word . (See
Degrees .)
Grain of Mustard, Order of the . (Ger .,
Der Orden vans Senf Korn .) 	An order insti-
tuted in Germany, based on Mark iv . 30 and
32, the object being the propagation of moral-
ity .
Grammar . 	One of the seven liberal arts
and sciences, which forms, with Logic and
Rhetoric, a triad dedicated to the cultivation
of language . "God," says Sanctius, "cre-
ated man the participant of reason ; and as he
willed him to be a social being, he bestowed
upon him the gift of language, in the perfect-

GRAND
ing of which there are three aids . The first
is Grammar, which rejects from language all
solecisms and barbarous expressions ; 	the
second is Logic, which is occupied with the
truthfulness of language ; and the third is
Rhetoric, which seeks only the adornment of
language ."
Grand Architect . 	A degree in several of
the Rites modeled upon the Twelfth of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite . It is, 1 .
The Sixth Degree of the Reform of St . Martin ;
2 . The Fourteenth of the Rite of Elected Co-
hens ; 3 . The Twenty-third of the Rite of Miz-
raim ; and 4 . The Twenty-fourth of the Met-
ropolitan Chapter of France .
Grand Chapter . A Grand Chapter con-
sists of the High Priests, Kings, and Scribes
for the time being, of the several Chapters
under its jurisdiction, of the Past Grand and
Deputy Grand High Priests, Kings, and
Scribes of the said Grand Chapter . In some
Grand Chapters Past High Priests are ad-
mitted to membership, but in others they are
not granted this privilege, unless they shall
have served as Grand and Deputy Grand
High Priests, Kings, or Scribes . Grand
Chapters have the sole government and super-
intendence of the several Royal Arch Chapters
and Lodges of Most Excellent Past and Mark
Masters within their several jurisdictions .
Until the year 1797, there was no organiza-
tion of Grand Chapters in the United States .
Chapters were held under the authority of a
Master's Warrant, although the consent of a
neighboring Chapter was generally deemed ex-
pedient . But in 1797, delegates from several
of the Chapters in the Northern States as-
sembled at Boston for the purpose of deliber-
ating on the expediency of organizing a Grand
Chapter for the government and regulation of
the several Chapters within the said States .
This convention prepared an address to the
Chapters in New York and New England,
disclaiming the power of any Grand Lodge to
exercise authority over Royal Arch Masons,
and declaring it expedient to establish a Grand
Chapter . 	In consequence of this address, del-
egates from most of the States above men-
tioned met at Hartford in January, 1798, and
organized a Grand Chapter, formed and
adopted a Constitution, and elected and in-
stalled their officers . This example was
quickly followed by other parts of the Union,
and Grand Chapters now exist in nearly all the
States . 	(See General Grand Chapter .)
The officers of a Grand Chapter are usually
the same as those of a Chapter, with the dis-
tinguishing prefix of "Grand" to the titles .
The jewels are also the same, but enclosed
within a circle . In England and Scotland the
Grand Chapter bears the title of Supreme
Grand Chapter .
Grand Commander . 	The presiding offi-
cer of a Grand Commandery of Knights Tem-
plar .
Grand Commander of the Eastern Star .
(Grand Commandeur de l'Etoile d'Orient .) 	A
degree in Pyron's collection .
Grand Conclave . 	The title of the presid-
GRAND 	305
ing body of Templarism in England is the
"Grand Conclave of the Religious and Mili-
tary Order of Masonic Knights Templar ."
Grand Conservators . 	On July 1, 1814,
the Grand Mastership of the Order in France,
then held by Prince Cambaceres, was, in con-
sequence of the political troubles attendant
upon the restoration of the monarchy, de-
clared vacant by the Grand Orient . On Au-
gust 12th, the Grand Orient decreed that the
functions of Grand Master should be pro-
visionally discharged by a commission con-
sisting of three Grand Officers, to be called
Grand Conservators, and Macdonald, Duke of
Tarentum, the Count de Beurnonville, and
Timbrune, Count de Valence, were appointed
to that office .
Grand Consistory . 	The governing body
over a State of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite ; subject, however, to the su-
perior jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of
the Thirty-third . 	The members of the Grand
Consistory are required to be in possession of
the Thirty-second Degree .
Grand Council . 	The title given to the
first three officers of a Royal Arch Chapter .
Also the name of the superintending body of
Cryptic Masonry in any jurisdiction . 	It is
composed of the first three officers of each
Council in the jurisdiction . Its officers are :
Most Puissant Grand Master, Thrice Illus-
triousDeputyGrand Master, IllustriousGrand
Conductor of the Works, Grand Treasurer,
Grand Recorder, Grand Chaplain, Grand Mar-
shal, Grand Captain of the Guards, Grand Con-
ductor of the Council, and Grand Steward .
Grand Director of the Ceremonies . 	An
important officer in the United Grand Lodge
of 	gland ; a similar office to that of Grand
Master-General of Ceremonies of a Supreme
Council, upon whom the order of the Grand
Body largely depends, and who has charge of
the service or ceremonies of whatever nature
that may transpire .
Grand East . 	The city in which the Grand
Lodge, or other governing Masonic Body, is
situated, and whence its official documents
emanate, is called the Grand East . 	Thus, a
document issued by the Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts would be dated from 	the
"Grand East of Boston," or if from the
Grand Lodge of Louisiana, it would be the
"Grand East of New Orleans ." 	The place
where a Grand Lodge meets is therefore called
a Grand East . 	The word is in constant use
on the Continent of Europe and in America,
but seldom employed in England, Scotland,
or Ireland .
Grand Elect, Perfect and Sublime
Mason . 	The Fourteenth Degree of the A . A .
Scottish Rite . (See Perfection, Lodge of .)
Grand Encampment . 	See Encampment,
Grand .
Grand High Priest . 	The presiding officer
of a Grand Royal Arch Chapter in the Ameri-
can system . 	The powers and prerogatives of
a Grand High Priest are far more circum-
scribed than those of a Grand Master . 	As
the office has been constitutionally created by

306 	GRAND
t
the Grand Chapter, and did not precede it as
hat of Grand M asters did the Grand Lodges,
he possesses no inherent prerogatives, but
those only which are derived from and dele-
gated to him by the Constitution of the Grand
Chapter and regulations formed under it for
the government of Royal Arch Masonry .
Grand Inquiring Commander . 	The
Sixty-sixth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Grand Inspector, Inquisitor Com-
mander . 	The Thirty-first Degree of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite . It is
not an historical degree, but simply a judicial
power of the higher degrees . The place of
meeting is called a Supreme Tribunal . The
decorations are white, and the presiding officer
is styled Most Perfect President . The jewel
of the degree is a Teutonic cross of silver at-
tached to white watered ribbon .
Grand Lodge . A Grand Lodge is the dog-
matic and administrative authority of Ancient
Craft Masonry, or the three Symbolic de-
grees . It is defined in the Regulations of
1721 as "consisting of and formed by the
Masters and Wardens of all the regular Lodges
upon record, with the Grand Master at their
head and his Deputy on his left hand, and
the (errand Wardens in their proper places ."
(Constitutions, 1723, p . 61 .) 	This definition
refers to a very modern organization, for of
Grand Lodges thus constituted we have no
written evidence previous to the year 1717,
when Freemasonry was revived in England .
Previous to that time the administrative au-
thority of the Craft was exercised by a General
Assembly of the Masons of a jurisdiction
which met annually . (See Assembly .) 	The
true history of Grand Lodges commences,
therefore, from what has been called the era of
the revival .
In 1716, four old Lodges in London, deter-
mined, if possible, to revive the Institution
from its depressed state, and accordingly they
met in February, 1717, at the Apple-Tree
Tavern (whose name has thus been rendered
famous for all time) ; and after placing the
oldest Master Mason, who was the Master of
a Lodge, in the chair they constituted them-
selves into a Grand Lodge, and forthw th
" revived the quarterly communications of the
officers of Lodges (call'd the Grand Lodge) ."
(Constitutions, 1738, p . 109 .) On the follow-
ing St . John the Baptist's Day, the Grand
Lodge was duly organized, and Mr . Anthony
Sayer was elected Grand Master, who ap-
pointed his Wardens, and commanded the
Masters and Wardens of Lodges to meet the
Grand Officers every quarter in communica-
tion . From that time Grand Lodges have been
uninterruptedly held ; receiving, however, at
different periods, various modifications .
A Grand Lodge is invested with power and
authority over all the Craft within its juris-
diction . It is the Supreme Court of Appeal in
all Masonic cases, and to its decrees implicit
obedience must be paid by every Lodge and
every Mason situated within its control . The
government of Grand Lodges is, therefore,
completely despotic . While a Grand Lodge
GRAND
exists, its edicts must be respected and obeyed
without examination by its subordinate
Lodges .
This autocratic power of a Grand Lodge
is based upon a principle of expediency, and
derived from the fundamental law established
at the organization of Grand Lodges in the
beginning of the last century . In so large a
body as the Craft, it is absolutely necessary
that there should be a supreme controlling
body to protect the Institution from anarchy,
and none could be more conveniently selected
than one which, by its representative charac-
ter, is, or ought to be, composed of the united
wisdom, prudence, and experience of all the
subordinate Lodges under its obedience ; so
that the voice of the Grand Lodge is nothing
else than the voice of the Craft expressed by
their representatives . Hence the twelfth of
the General Regulations declares that "the
Grand Lodge consists of, and is formed by, the
Masters and Wardens of all the particular
Lodges upon record ." 	(Constitutions, 1738,
p . 158 .)
So careful has the Institution been to pre-
serve the dogmatic and autocratic power of
the Grand Lodge, that all elected Masters
are required, at the time of their installation,
to make the following declaration :
"You agree to hold in veneration the orig-
inal rulers and patrons of the Order of Free-
masonry, and their regular successors, supreme
and subordinate, according to their stations ;
and to submit to the awards and resolutions
of your brethren in general Lodge convened,
in every case, consistent with the Constitu-
tions of the Order .
"You promise to pay homage to the Grand
Master for the time being, and to his officers
when duly installed, and strictly to conform to
every edict of the Grand Lodge ."
The organization of new Grand Lodges in
America has followed that adopted, in essen-
tial particulars, by the four Lodges which es-
tablished the Grand Lodge of . England in
1717 . When it is desired to organize a Grand
Lodge, three or more legally constituted
Lodges, working in any State, territory, or
other independent political division, where no
Grand Lodge already exists, may meet in con-
vention, adopt by-laws, elect officers, and or-
ganize a Grand Lodge . The Lodges within its
jurisdiction then surrender their Warrants of
constitution to the Grand Lodges from which
they respectively had received them, and ac-
cept others from the newly organized Grand
Lodge, which thenceforward exercises all
Masonic jurisdiction over the State in which
it has been organized .
A Grand Lodge thus organized consists of
the Masters and Wardens of all the Lodges
under its jurisdiction, and such Past Masters
as may enroll themselves or be elected as
members . Past Masters are not, however,
members of the Grand . Lodge by inherent
right, but only by courtesy, and no Past Mas-
ter	ter can remain a member of the Grand Lodge
unless he is attached to some subordinate
Lodge in its jurisdiction .


GRAND
All Grand Lodges are governed by the fol-
lowing officers : Grand Master Deputy Grand
Master, Senior and Junior Gt rand Wardens,
Grand Treasurer, 	and Grand Secretary .
These are usually termed the Grand Officers ;
in addition to them there are subordinate
officers appointed by the Grand Master and
the Grand Wardens, such as Grand Deacons,
Grand Stewards, Grand Marshal, Grand Pur-
suivant, Grand Sword-Bearer, and Grand
Tiler ; but their number and titles vary in dif-
ferent Grand Lodges .
Grand Lodge Manuscript, No .1 . A roll
of parchment, nine inches in length and five
in breadth, containing the Legend of the
Craft and the Old Charges . 	It is preserved
in the Archives of the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land, having been bought in 1839 for £25 .
It was dated by its writer 1583 . 	It has been
reproduced in Hughan's Old Charges, 1872 ;
in Sadler's Masonic Facts and Fictions, and
in facsimile by the Quatuor Coronati Lodge .
Grand Master . 	The presiding officer of
the Symbolic degrees in a jurisdiction . 	He
presides, of course, over the Grand Lodge, and
has the right not only to be present, but also
to preside in every Lodge, with the Master of
the Lodge on his left hand, and to order his
Grand Wardens to attend him, and act as
Wardens in that particular Lodge . He has the
right of visiting the Lodges and inspecting
their books and mode of work as often as he
pleases, or, if unable to do so, he may depute
his Grand Officers to act for him . 	He has the
power of granting dispensations for the forma-
tion of new Lodges ; which dispensations are
of force until revoked by himself or the Grand
Lodge . 	He may also grant dispensations for
several other purposes, for which see the
article Dispensation . 	Formerly, the Grand
Master appointed his Grand Officers, but this
regulation has been repealed, and the Grand
Officers are now all elected by the Grand
Lodges . [Except in England, where the Grand
Master appoints all but the Grand Treasurer .]
When the Grand Master visits a Lodge, he
must be received with the greatest respect,
and the Master of the Lodge should always
offer him the chair, which the Grand Master
may or may not accept at his pleasure .
Should the Grand Master die, or be absent
from the jurisdiction during his term of office,
the Deputy Grand Master assumes his powers,
or, if there be no Deputy, then the Grand
Wardens according to seniority .
The following is a list of the Grand Masters
of the Grand Lodge of England, established
in 1717 and afterward known as the "Mod-
erns" :
1717 . 	Anthony Sayer .
1718 . 	George Payne .
1719 . 	J . T . Desaguliers, LL .D ., F .R .S .
1720 . 	George Payne .
1721 . John, Duke of Montague .
1722 . 	Philip, Duke of Wharton .
1723 . Francis, Earl of Dalkeith .
1724 . Charles, Duke of Richmond .
1725 . James, Lord Paisley .
GRAND 	307
1726 . 	William, Earl of Inchiquin .
1727 . 	Henry, Lord Coleraine .
1728 . James, Lord Kingston .
1729-30 . 	Thomas, Duke of Norfolk .
1731 . 	Thomas, Lord Level .
1732 . 	Anthony, Viscount Montague .
1733 . James, Earl of Strathmore .
1734 . 	John, Earl of Crawford .
1735 . Thomas, Viscount Weymouth .
1736 . 	John, Earl of Londoun .
1737 . Edward, Earl of Darnley .
1738 . 	Henry, Marquess of Carnarvon .
1739 . 	Robert, Lord Raymond .
1740 . 	John, Earl of Kintore .
1741 . 	James, Earl of Morton .
1742-3 . John, Viscount Dudley and Ward .
1744 . 	Thomas, Earl of Strathmore .
1745-6 . 	James Lord Cranstoun .
1747-51 . 	Wm ., Lord Byron .
1752-3 . 	John, Lord Carysfort .
1754-6 . 	James, Marquess of Carnarvon .
1757-61 . 	Sholts, Lord Aberdour .
1762-3 . 	Washington, Earl Ferrers .
1764-6 . 	Cadwallader, Lord Blaney .
1767-71 . 	Henry, Duke of Beaufort .
1772-6 . 	Robert, Lord Petre .
1777-82 . 	George, Duke of Manchester .
2- . 	H . R . H . The Duke of Cumberland .
18~ } H . R . H . The Prince of Wales .
1813 . 	H . R . H . The Duke of Sussex .
The following is a list of the Grand Masters
of the Atholl or "Ancients" Grand Lodge :
1753 . 	Robert Turner .
1754-5 . 	Hon . Edward Vaughan .
1756-9 . 	Earl of Blessington .
1760-65 . 	Thomas, Earl of Kelly .
1766-70 . 	Hon . Thos . Mathew .
1771-4 . John, 3d Duke of Atholl .
1775-81 . 	John, 4th Duke of Atholl .
1782 . 	Vacant .
1783-90 . 	Randal, Earl of Antrim .
1791-
} John, 4th Duke of Atholl .
	1813 .
1813 . H . R . H . The Duke of Kent .
The following is a list of the Grand Masters
of the United Grand Lodge of England from
the union of "Ancients" and "Moderns" in
1813 :
1813-43 . 	H . R . H. The Duke of Sussex .
1844-70 . Earl of Zetland .
1870-4 . 	Marquess of Ripon .
1874- ? H . R . H . The Prince of Wales .
	1901 .
1901 . H . R . H . The Duke of Connaught .
Grand Master Architect . (Grand Maitre
Architect .) The Twelfth Degree in the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite . 	This is strictly
a scientific degree, resembling in that respect
the degree of Fellow-Craft . 	In it the prin-
ciples of architecture and the connection of
the liberal arts with Masonry are unfolded .
Its officers are three-a Master, and two
Wardens . 	The Chapter is decorated with
white and red hangings, and furnished with

308 	GRAND
the five orders of architecture, and a case
of mathematical instruments . The apron is
white, lined with blue ; and the jewel is a gold
medal, on which are engraved the orders of
architecture . It is suspended by a stone-
colored ribbon .
Grand Master Mason . The title given to
the Grand Master in the Grand Lodge of Scot-
land .
Grand Master of all Symbolic Lodges .
(Venerable Maitre de toutes les Loges .) 	The
Twentieth Degree in the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite . The presiding of&cer is styled
Venerable Grand Master, and is assisteby
two Wardens in the west . The decorations of
the Lodge are blue and yellow . The old rit-
ual contains some interesting instructions re-
specting the first and second Temple .
Among the traditions preserved by the pos-
sessors of this degree, is one which states that
after the third Temple was destroyed by Titus,
the son of Vespasian, the Christian Freema-
sons who were then in the Holy Land, being
filled with sorrow, departed from home with
the determination of building a fourth, and
that, dividing themselves into several bodies,
they dispersed over the various parts of Eu-
rope . The greater number went to Scotland,
and repaired to the town of Kilwinning, where
they established a Lodge and built an abbey,
and where the records of the Order were de-
posited . This tradition, preserved in the orig-
inal rituals, is a very strong presumptive evi-
dence that the degree owed its existence to the
Templar system of Ramsay .
Grand Master of Light . 	One of the vari-
ous names bestowed on the degree of Knight
of St . Andrew .
Grand Offerings . 	According to the Eng-
lish system of lectures, three important events
recorded in Scripture are designated as the
three grand offerings of Masonry, because
they are said to have occurred on Mount Mo-
riah, which symbolically represents the ground
floor of the Lodge . These three grand offer-
ings are as follows : The first grand offering
was when Abraham prepared to offer up his
son Isaac ; the second was when David built
an altar to stay the pestilence with which his
people were afflicted ; and the third was when
Solomqn dedicated to Jehovah the Temple
which he had completed . 	(See Ground Floor
of the Lodge .)
Grand Officers . 	The elective officers of
a superintending Masonic body, such as
Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter, etc ., are so
called . The appointed officers are desig-
nated as subordinate officers, but this distinc-
tion is not always strictly observed .
Grand Orient . 	Most of the Grand
Lodges established by the Latin races, such as
those of France, Spain, Italy, and the South
American States, are called Grand Orients .
The word is thus, in one sense, synonymous
with Grand Lodge ; but these Grand Gents
have often a more extensive obedience than
Grand Lodges, frequently exercising jurisdic-
tion over the highest degrees, from which Eng-
lish and American Grand Lodges refrain .
GRAND
Thus the Grand Orient of France exercises
jurisdiction not only over the seven degrees of
its own Rite, but also over the thirty-three of
the Ancient and Accepted, and over all the
other Rites which are practised in France .
Grand Orient is also used in English and
especially in American, Masonry to indicate
the seat of the Grand Lodge of highest Ma-
sonic power, and is thus equivalent to Grand
East, which see .
Grand Pontiff . 	(Grand Pontife ou Sub-
lime Ecossais .) The Nineteenth Degree of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite . The
degree is occupied in an examination of the
Apocalyptic mysteries of the New Jerusalem .
Its officers are a Thrice Puissant and one
Warden . The Thrice Puissant is seated in
the east on a throne canopied with blue, and
wears a white satin robe . The Warden is in the
west, and holds a staff of gold . The members
are clothed in white, with blue fillets embroid-
ered with twelve stars of gold, and are called
True and Faithful Brothers . The decorations
of the Lodge are blue sprinkled with gold
stars .
Grand Principals . 	The first three officers
of the Grand Chapter of England are so called .
They are respectively designated as Z ., H .,
and J ., meaning Zerubbabel, Haggai, and
Joshua .
Grand Prior . 1 . Each chief or conventual
bailiff of the eight languages of the Order of
Malta-was called a Grand Prior . There were
also other Grand Priors, under whom were
several Commanderies . The Grand Priors of
the Order were twenty-six in number . 2 .
The third officer in the Supreme Council of
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite for
the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States .
(See Prior .)
Grand Secretary . 	The recording and cor-
responding officer of a Grand Lodge, whose
signature must be attached to every docu-
ment issued from the Grand Lodge ; where
there is no Grand Register or Keeper of the
Seals, he is the custodian of the Seal of the
Grand Lodge . The Regulations of 1722 had
provided for the office, but no appointment
was made until 1723, when William Co er
was chosen by the Grand Lodge . The o ce
was therefore at first an elective one, but An-
derson, in his edition of 1738, says that "ever
since, the new Grand Master, upon his com-
mencement, appoints the Secretary, or con-
tinues him by returning him the books ."
(P . 161 .) This usage is still pursued by the
modern Grand Lodge of England ; but in
every jurisdiction of this country the office of
Grand Secretary is an elective one . The jewel
of the Grand Secretary is a circle enclosing
two pens crossed. His badge of office was
formerly a bag . 	(See Bag .)
Grand Stewards . 	Officers of a Grand
Lodge, whose duty it is to prepare and serve
at the Grand Feast . This duty was at first
performed by the Grand Wardens, but in 1721
they were authorized "to take some Stew-
ards to their assistance ." (Constitutions, 1738,
p . 112 .) This was sometimes done and some-

GRAND
times omitted, so that often there were no
Stewards . In 1728 (ibid ., p . 123), the Stew-
ards, to the number of twelve, were made
permanent officers ;' and it was resolved that
in future, at the annual election, each Stew-
ard should nominate his successor . At pres-
ent, in the Grand Lodge of England, nineteen
Grand Stewards are annually appointed from
nineteen different Lodges . Each Lodge rec-
ommends one of its subscribing members, who
is nominated by the former Steward of that
Lodge, and the appointment is made by the
Grand Master . The number of Grand Stew-
ards in this country seldom exceeds two, and
the appointment is made in some Grand
Lodges by the Grand Master, and in others
by the Junior Grand Warden . The jewel of a
Grand Steward is a cornucopia within a circle,
and his badge of office a white rod .
Grand Stewards' Lodge . 	According to
the Constitutions of England, the past and
present Grand Stewards constitute a Lodge,
which has no number, but is registered in the
Grand Lodge books at the head of all other
Lodges . It is represented in the Grand
Lodge by its Master, Wardens ? and Past
Masters, but has no power of making Masons .
The institution has not been introduced into
this country except in the Grand Lodge of
Maryland, where the Grand Stewards' Lodge
acts as a Committee of Grievances during the
recess of the Grand Lodge .
Grand Tiler . 	An officer who performs in a
Grand Lodge the same duties that a Tiler does
in a subordinate Lodge . The Grand Tiler is
prohibited from being a member of the Grand
Lodge, because his duties outside of the door
would prevent his taking part in the deliber-
ations of the body .
Grand Treasurer . 	The office of Grand
Treasurer was provided for by the Regula-
tions of 1722, and in 1724, on the organiza-
tion of the Committee of Charity, it was en-
acted that a Treasurer should be appointed .
But it was not until 1727 that the office ap-
pears to have been really filled by the selection
of Nathaniel Blakerby . But as he was elected
Deputy
co-t2
Master in the same year, and
yet continued to perform the duties of Treas-
urer, it does not appear to have been consid-
ered as a distinct appointment . In 1738, he
demitted the office, when Revis, the Grand
Secretary, was appointed . But he declined
on the ground that the offices of Secretary and
Treasurer should not be held by the same per-
son-"the one being a check on the other ."
(Constitutions, 1738, p . 184 .) So that, in 1739,
it was made a permanent office of the Grand
Lodge by the appointment of Bro . John Jesse .
It is an elective office ; and it was provided,
by the Old Regulations, that he should be
"a brother of good worldly substance ." The
duties are similar to those of the Treasurer of
a subordinate Lodge . The jewel is a circle
enclosing two keys crossed, or in saltire . Ac-
cording to ancient custom, his badge of office
was a white staff, but this is generally disused
in this country .
Grand Wardens . 	The Senior and Junior
GRASSE 	309
Grand Wardens are the third and fourth offi-
cers of a Grand Lodge . Their duties do not
differ very materially from those of the cor-
responding officers of a subordinate Lodge,
but their powers are of course more extensive .
The Grand Wardens succeed to the govern-
ment of the Craft, in order of rank, upon the
death or absence from the jurisdiction of the
Grand and Deputy Grand Masters . (See
Succession to the Chair .)
It is also their prerogative to accompany
the Grand Master in his visitations of the
Lodges, and when there to act as his Wardens .
In the absence of the Senior Grand Warden,
the Junior does not occupy the west, but re-
tains his position in the south . Having been
elected and installed to preside in the south,
and to leave that station only for the east, the
temporary vacancy in the west must be sup-
plied by the appointment by the Grand Mas-
ter of some other brother . (See Wardens .)
On the same principle, the Senior Grand
Warden does not supply the place of the ab-
sent Deputy Grand Master, but retains his
station in the west .
The Old Charges of 1722 required that no
one could be a Grand Warden until he had
been the Master of a Lodge . The rule still
continues in force, either by specific regula-
tions or by the force of usage .
By the Regulations of 1721, the Grand
Master nominated the Grand Wardens, but if
his nomination was not approved, the Grand
Lodge proceeded to an election . By the pres-
ent Constitutions of England the power of
appointment is vested absolutely in the Grand
Master . In this country the Grand War-
dens are elected by the Grand Lodge .
Grasse Tilly, Alexandre Frangols Au-
guste, Comte de . He was the son of the
Comte de Grasse who commanded the
French fleet that had been sent to the assist-
ance of the Americans in their revolution-
ary struggle . De Grasse Tilly was born at
Versailles, in France, about the year 1766 .
He was initiated in the Mother Scottish
Lodge du Contrat Social, and subsequent-
ly, going over to America, resided for some
time in the island of St . Domingo, whence
he removed to the city of Charleston, in
South Carolina, where, in 1796, he affiliated
with the French Lodge la Candeur . In 1799,
he was one of the founders of the Lodge la
Reunion Francaise, of which be was at one
time the Venerable or Master . In 1802, the
Comte de Grasse was a member of the Su-
preme Council of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite, which had been established the year
before at Charleston ; and in the same year he
received a patent as Grand Commander for
life of the French West India islands . In
1802 he returned to St . Domingo, and estab-
lished a Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite
at Port au Prince . In 1804 he went to Eu-
rope, and labored with great energy for the
extension of the Ancient and Accepted Rite .
On September 22, 1804, he founded at Paris
a Supreme Council of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite, of which body he was

310 	GRAVE
until 1806, 	the 	Grand 	Commander . 	On
March 5, 1805, he organized a Supreme Coun-
cil at Milan in Italy, and on July 4, 1811, an-
other at Madrid, in' Spain . The Comte de
Grasse was an officer in the French army and
was taken prisoner by the English and de-
tained in England until 1815, when he re-
turned to Paris . He immediately resumed his
functions as Grand Commander of a body
which took the unauthorized pretentious title
of the Supreme Council of America . For
several years Scottish Masonry in France was
convulsed with dissensions, which De Grasse
vainly labored to reconcile . Finally, in 1818,
he resigned his post as Grand Commander,
and was succeeded' by the Comte Decazes .
From that period he appears to have passed
quietly out of the Masonic history of France,
and probably died soon after .
Grave . 	The grave is, in the Master's De-
gree, the analogue of the pastes, couch or
coffin, in the Ancient Mysteries, and is in-
tended scenically to serve the same purpose .
The grave is, therefore, in that degree, in-
tended, in connection with the sprig of acacia,
to teach symbolically the great Masonic doc-
trine of a future life .
Gravelot . 	The name of the second of the
three conspirators in the Master's Degree, ac-
cording to the Adonhiramite Rite . The others
are Romvel and Abiram . The etymology of
Gravelot is unknown .
Great Architect of the Universe . 	The
title applied in the technical language of Free-
masonry to the Deity . It is appropriate that
a society founded on the principles of archi-
tecture, which symbolizes the terms of that
science to moral purposes, and whose mem-
bers profess to be the architects of a spiritual
temple should view the Divine Being, under
whose holy law they are constructing that edi-
fice, as their Master Builder or Great Archi-
tect . Sometimes, but less correctly, the title
"Grand Architect of the Universe" is found .
Great Priory . 	The ruling body of the
Order of the Temple for England, Wales and
Canada is so called .
Greater Lights . 	See Lights, Greater, Bible,
Square and Compasses .
Greece . In 1867, the first steps were taken
to establish a Grand Lodge in Greece by the
Lodges which had been recently founded there
by the Grand Orient of Italy, but owing to
various causes the organization did not suc-
ceed, and until 1872 the Grecian Lodges were
presided over by a Deputy Grand Master, ap-
pointed by and the representative of the
Grand Orient of Italy .
On July 22, 1872, the Lodges of Greece met
at Athens, and organized the Grand Lodge of
Greece, electing His Imperial Highness Prince
Rhodocanakis the first Grand Master .
At the same time a Supreme Council of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite was or-
ganized . The seat of both bodies is at Athens .
Greece, Mysteries In . 	The principal
Pagan mysteries celebrated in Greece were
the Eleusinian and the Bacchic . 	(See Eleu-
sinian Mysteries .)
GREETING
Green . 	Green, as a Masonic color, is al-
most confined to the four degrees of Perfect
Master, Knight of the East, Knight of the
Red Cross, and Prince of Mercy . In the de-
gree of Perfect Master it is a symbol of the
moral resurrection of the candidate, teaching
him that being dead to vice he should hope to
revive in virtue .
In the degree of Knight of the Red Cross,
this color is employed as a symbol of the im-
mutable nature of truth, which, like the bay
tree, will ever flourish in immortal green .
This idea of the unchanging immortality of
that which is divine and true, was always con-
nected by the ancients with the color of green .
Among the Egyptians, the god Phtha, the
active spirit, the creator and regenerator of
the world, the goddess Pascht, the Divine pre-
server, and Thoth, the instructor of men in
the sacred doctrines of truth, were all painted
in the hieroglyphic system with green flesh .
Portal says, in his essay on Symbolic Colors=
that "green was the symbol of victory" ; and
this reminds us of the motto of the Red Cross
Knights, "magna est veritas et praevalebit"
-great is truth and mighty above all things ;
and hence green is the symbolic color of that
degree .
In the degree of Prince of Mercy, or the
Twenty-sixth Degree of the Scottish Rite,
green is also symbolic of truth, and is the ap-
propriate color of the degree, because truth is
there said to be the palladium of the Order .
In the degree of Knight of the East, in the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, green is
also the symbolic color . We may very readily
suppose, from the close connection of this
degree in its ritual with that of the Companion
of the Red Cross, that the same symbolic ex-
planation of the color would apply to both, .
and I think that such an explanation might
very properly be made ; but it is generally
supposed by its possessors that the green of
the Knights of the East alludes to the waters
of the river Euphrates, and hence its symbol-
ism is not moral but historical .
The evergreen of the Third Degree is to the
Master Mason an emblem of immortality .
Green was with the Druids a symbol of hope,
and the virtue of hope with a Mason illustrates
the hope of immortality . In all the Ancient
Mysteries, this idea was carried out, and green
symbolized the birth of the world, and the
moral creation or resurrection of the initiate .
If we apply this to the evergreen of the Master
Mason we shall again find a resemblance, for
the acacia is emblematic of a new creation of
the body, and a moral and physical resurrec-
tion .
Greeting . 	This word means salutation,
and, under the form of "Thrice Greeting," it
is very common at the head of Masonic doc-
uments . In the beginning of the last century
it was usual at the meeting of Masons to say,
"God's good greeting be to this our happy
meeting ." Browne gives the formula as prac-
tised in 1800 : "The recommendation I bring
is from the right worthy and worshipful broth-
ers and fellows of the Holy Lodge of St . John,

GRi GORIANS
who greet your worship well ." This formula
is obsolete, but the word greeting is still in use
among Freemasons . In Masonic documents
it is sometimes found in the form of S .' . S .' .
S .' ., which three letters are the initials of the
Latin word salutem or health, three times re-
p eated, and therefore equivalent to "Thrice
Greeting ."
Gregorlans . 	An association established
early in the eighteenth century in ridicule of
and in opposition to the Freemasons . There
was some feud between the two Orders, but
the Gregorians at last succumbed, and long
ago became extinct . They lasted, however, at
least until the end of the century, for there is
extant a Sermon preached before them in
1797 . They must too, by that time, have
changed their character, for Prince William
Frederick of Gloucester was then their presid-
ing officer ; and Dr . Munkhouse, the author of
that sermon, who was a very ardent Mason,
t peaks in high terms of the Order as an ally of
Freemasonry, and distinguished for its "be-
nign tendency and salutary effects ."
Grelnemann, Ludwig . 	A Dominican
monk, who, while preaching a course of Lenten
sermons at Aix-la-Chapelle in 1779, endeav-
ored to prove that the Jews who crucified
Jesus were Freemasons ; that Pilate and Herod
were Wardens in a Masonic Lodge ; and that
Judas, before he betrayed his Lord, had been
initiated in the synagogue, the thirty pieces of
silver which he returned being the amount of
his fee for initiation . With discourses like
these, Greinemann, who had threatened, if his
followers would assist him, he would slay every
Freemason he met with his own hand, so ex-
cited the people, that the magistrates were
compelled to issue an edict forbidding the as-
semblies of the Freemasons . Peter Schuff, . a
Capuchin, also vied with Greinemann in the
labor of persecution, and peace was not re-
stored until the neighboring free imperial
states threatened that, if the monks did not
refrain from stirring up the mob against Free-
masonry, they should be prohibited from col-
lecting alms in their territories .
Grip . In early Masonic works this is
called the " gr ipe . ' 	German Masons call it
der Gruff, and French ones, l'attouchement .
Groton . In the Leland Manuscript, a
corruption of Crotona, where Pythagoras es-
tablished his school .
Ground Floor of the Lodge . Mount
Moriah, on which the Temple of Solomon was
built, is symbolically called the ground floor of
the Lodge, and hence it is said that "the Lodge
rests on holy ground ." This ground-floor of
the Lod g e is remarkable f or three great events
recorded in Scripture, which are called "the
three grand offerings of Masonry ." It was
here that Abraham prepared, as a token of his
faith, to offer up his beloved son Isaac-this
was the first grand offering ; it was here that
David, when his peo p le were afflicted with a
pestilence, built an altar, and offered thereon
peace-offerings and burnt-offerings to appease
the wrath of God-this was the second grand
offering ; and lastly, it was here that, when
GUIBBS 	311
the Temple was completed, King Solomon
dedicated that magnificent structure to the
service of Jehovah, with the offering of pious
prayers and many costly presenta--and this
was the third grand offering .
This sacred spot was once the threshing-
floor of Ornan the Jebusite, and from him
David purchased it for fifty shekels of silver .
The Kabbalists delight to invest it with still
more solemn associations, and declare that it
was the spot on which Adam was created and
Abel slain . 	(See Holy Ground .)
Ground Floor of King Solomon's Tem-
ple . This is said to have been a Mosaic pave-
ment, consisting of black and white stones
laid lozengewise, and surrounded by a tes-
selated border. The tradition of the Order is
that Entered Apprentices' Lodges were held
on the ground floor of King Solomon's Tem-
ple ; and hence a Mosaic pavement, or a car-
pet representing one, is a very common deco-
ration of Masonic Lodges . (See 	Mosaic
Pavement and Grand Offerings .)
Grumbach, Sylvester . 	Mentioned in the
legend of the Strict Observance, and was the
reputed Grand Master of the Templars from
1330 to 1332, and was the twenty-second
Grand Master .
Guard . 	See Due Guard .
Guard of the Conclave . 	See Knight of
the Christian Mark .
Guards . 	Officers used in working the rit-
uals of the Red Cross and Templar degrees .
They do not constitute regular officers of a
Council or Commandery, but are appointed
pro re natd .
Guerrier de Dumast . 	A distinguished
French Mason, born at Nancy on February
26, 1796 . He is the author of a poem entitled
La MaConnerie, in three cantos, enriched with
historical, etymological, and critical notes
published in 1820 . For this work he receive
from the Lodge Freres Artistes, of which he
was the orator, a gold medal . He was the
author of several other works, both Masonic
and secular .
Gugomos, Baron Von . 	An im p ostor in
Masonry, who, in 1775, appeared in Germany,
and, being a member of the Order of Strict Ob-
servance, claimed that he had been delegated
by the Unknown Superiors of the Holy See at
Cyprus to establish a new Order of Knights
Templars . 	Calling himself Dux and High
Priest, he convoked a Masonic Congress at
Wiesbaden, which, notwithstanding the warn-
ing of Dr . Bode, was attended by many in-
fluential members of the Fraternity . His pre-
tensions were so absurd, that at length his
imposture was detected, and he escaped
secretly out of Wiesbaden . In 1786, Gugo-
mos confessed the imposition, and, it is said
asserted that he had been employed as a too
by the Jesuits to perform this part, that Free-
masonry might be injured .
Guibbs . 	The names given to the As-
sassins of the Third Degree by some of the in-
ventors of the high degrees, are of so singular
a form as to have almost irresistibly led to the
conclusion that these names were bestowed by

312 	GUILLEMAIN
the adherents of the house of Stuart upon some
of their enemies as marks of infamy . Such,
for instance, is Romvel, the name of one of the
Assassins in certain Scottish degrees, which
is probably a corruption of Cromwell . Jubelum
Guibbs, another name of one of these traitors,
has much puzzled the Masonic etymologists .
I think that I have found its origin in the
name of the Rev . Adam Gib, who was an anti-
burgher clergyman of Edinburgh . When
that city was taken possession of by the young
Pretender, Charles Edward, in 1745 the
clergy generally fled . But Gib removes only
three miles from the city, where, collecting his
loyal congregation, he hurled anathemas for
five successive Sundays against the Pre-
tender, and boldly prayed for the downfall of
the rebellion . He subsequently joined the
loyal army, and at Falkirk took a rebel pris-
oner . So active was Gib in his opposition to
the cause of the house of Stuart, and so ob-
noxious had he become, that several attempts
were made by the rebels to take his life . On
Charles Edward's return to France he erected
in 1747 his "Primordial Chapter ; ' at Arras ;
and in the composition of the high degrees
there practised, it is very probable that he be-
stowed the name of his old enemy Gib on the
most atrocio p s of the Assassins who figure in
the legend of Third Degree . The letter u was
doubtless inserted to prevent the French, in
pronouncing the name, from falling into the
soft sound of the G and calling the word Jib .
The additional b and s were the natural and
customary results of a French attempt to spell
a foreign proper name . (See Arras, Primor-
dial Chapter of .)
Guillemain de St . Victor, Louis . A dis-
tinguished French writer, who published sev-
eral works on Freemasonry, the most valua-
ble and best known of which is his Recueil
Precieux de la Magonnerie Adonhiramite, first
issued at Paris in 1782 . This work, of which
several editions were published, contains the
catechisms of the first four degrees of Adoni-
ramite Masonry, and an account of several
other degrees, and is enriched with many
learned notes . Ragon, who speaks highly of
the work, erroneously attributes its author-
ship to the celebrated Baron de Tschoudy .
Gustavus IV ., King of Sweden . He was
initiated into Masonry, at Stockholm, on the
10th of March, 1793 . Ten years after, on the
9th of March, 1803, Gustavus issued an Or-
donnance by which he required all the secret
societies in his dominions to make known to
the stadtholders of the cities where they re-
sided, and in the provinces to his governors,
not only the formula of the oath which they
administered to their members, but the duties
which they prescribed, and the object of their
association ; and also to submit at any time to
a personal inspection by the officers of govern-
ment . But at the end of the Ordonnance the
King says : "The Freemasons, who are under
our immediate protection, are alone excepted
from this inspection, and from this Ordon-
nance in general ."
Guttural Point of Entrance . 	From the
GYPSIES
Latin gutter, the throat . The throat is that
avenue of the body which is most employed in
the sins of intemperance, and hence it sug-
gests to the Mason certain symbolic instruc-
tions in relation to the virtue of temperance .
(See Points of Entrance Perfect .)
Gymnosophist . 	The Eighth Degree of
the Kabbalistic Rite .
Gymnosophists . 	(Signifying "naked
sages .") A name given by the Greeks to
those ancient Hindu philosophers who lived
solitarily in the woods, wore little or no cloth-
ing, and addicted themselves to mystical con-
templation and the practise of the most rig-
orous asceticism . Strabo divides them into
Brahmans and Samans, the former of whom
adhered to the strictest principles of caste,
while the latter admitted any one into their
number regarding whose character and kin-
dred they were satisfied . They believed in
the immortalit y of the soul and its migration
into other bodies . They practised celibacy,
abstained from wine, and lived on fruits .
They held riches in contempt, and abstained
from sensual indulgences .
Gypsies . 	Cornelius Van Paun, more gen-
erally known as De Paun, in his Philosophical
Researches on the Egyptians and Chinese (Paris,
1774), advances the theory that Freemasonry
originated with the Gypsies . He says : "Every
person who was not guilty of some crime could
obtain admission to the lesser mysteries .
Those vagabonds called Egyptian priests in
Greece and Italy required considerable sums
for initiation ; and their successors, the Gyp-
sies, practise similar mummeries to obtain
money . And thus was Freemasonry intro-
duced into Europe ." But De Paun is remark-
able for the paradoxical character of his opin-
ions . Mr . James Simpson, who has written
a rather exhaustive History of the Gypsies
(1866), finds (p . 387) "a considerable re-
semblance between Gypsyism, in its harmless
aspect, and Freemasonry-with this differ-
ence, that the former is a general, while the
latter is a special, society ; that is to say, the
Gypsies have the language, or some of the
words and the signs peculiar to the whole
race, which each individual or class will use
for different purposes . The race does not
necessarily, and does not in fact, have inter-
course with every other member of it . In that
respect they resemble any ordinary commu-
nity of men ." And he adds : "There axe many
Gypsies Freemasons ; indeed, they are the
very people to push their way into a Masons'
Lodge ; for they have secrets of their own, and
are naturally anxious to pry into those of
others, by which they ma y be benefited . I was
told of a Gypsy who died, lately, the Master
of a Masons' Lodge . A friend, a Mason told
me the other day of his having entered a louse
in Yetholm where were five Gypsies, all of
whom responded to his Masonic signs ." But
it must be remembered that Simpson is writ-
ing of the Gypsies of Scotland, a kingdom
where the race is considerably advanced above
those of any other country in civilization and
in social position .

H
H . 	(Heb . M, Cheth ; the hieroglyph was an
altar thus, and
finally the He-
brew M .) 	The
eighth letter in
the 	alphabet,
and in the Hebrew has the value in number of
8, while the Heb . ' 1, He, which is of the same
hieroglyphic formation, has the numerical
valuation of 5 .
H . . A . . B . • . 	An abbreviation of Hiram
Abif .
Habakkuk . 	(Heb . 7171, a struggler, a
favorite .) 	The eighth of the twelve minor
prophets . 	No account is contained in the
Book of Habakkuk, either of the events of his
life or the data when he lived . He is believed
by many to have flourished about 630 B .c .
In the Thirty-second Degree of the A . A .
Scottish Rite, his name answers to the pass-
words Tuesday and Xerxes .
Habin . (Heb . I'11, intelligius .) 	Name of
the initiate in the Fourth Degree of the mod-
ern French Rite, sometimes given as Johaben,
or Jabin .
Habramah or Jabamiah . 	(Fanum ex-
celsum .) 	Said to be used in the Thirtieth De-
gree of the A . A . Scottish Rite in France ; it is
not used in America .
Racquet, G . 	A French notary at Port-au-
Prince, subsequently a member of the Grand
Orient of Paris, and President of the Royal
Arch Chapter at Paris in 1814 .
Hadeeses . 	An Arabic word, signifying the
traditions handed down by Mohammed and
preserved by ' the Mohammedan doctors .
They are said to amount to 5266 in number .
Many of the traditions of Mohammedan Ma-
sonry are said to be borrowed from the
Hadeeses, just as much of the legendary lore
of European Masonry is to be found in the
Jewish Talmud .
Hfifedha . 	The second of the four gods
worshiped by the Arab tribe of Ad, before the
time of Mohammed, to which Hfld, or Heber,
was sent . These were SAkia, the god of rain ;
Hafedha, the preserver from danger ; Razeka,
the provider of food ; and S51ema, the god of
health .
Hagar . 	The old lectures taught the doc-
trine, and hence it was the theory of the
Masons of the eighteenth century, that the
landmark which requires all candidates for in-
itiation to be free born is derived from the fact
that the promise which was given to Isaac, the
free-born son of Abraham and Sarah, was
denied to Ishmael, the slave-born son of the
Egyptian bondwoman Hagar . This theory is
entertained by Oliver in all his writings, as a
part of the old Masonic system . 	(See Free
Born .)
Haggai . 	According to Jewish tradition,
Haggai was born in Babylon during the cap-
tivity, and being a young man at the time of
the liberation by Cyrus, he came to Jerusalem
AI 	A	-
H
HALL 	313
in company with Joshua and Zerubbabel, to
aid in the rebuilding of the Temple . 	The
work being suspended during the reigns of the
two immediate successors of Cyrus, on the ac-
cession of Darius, Haggai urged the renewal of
the undertaking, and for that purpose ob-
tained the sanction of the king . Animated by
the courage and patriotism of Haggai and
Zechariah, the people prosecuted the work
with vigor, and the second Temple was com-
pleted and dedicated in the year 516 B .c .
In the Royal Arch system of America, Hag-
gai represents the scribe, or third officer of a
Royal Arch Chapter . In the English system
he represents the second officer, and is called
the prophet .
Hague, The . 	A city of the Netherlands,
formerly South Holland . 	Freemasonry was
introduced there in 1731 by the Grand Lodge
of England, when an occasional Lodge was
opened for the initiation of Francis, Duke of
Lorraine, afterward Emperor of Germany .
Between that year and 1735 an English and a
Dutch Lodge were regularly instituted, from
which other Lodges in I olland subsequently
proceeded . 	In 1749, the Lodge at The Hague
assumed the name of "The Mother Lodge of
the Royal Union," whence resulted the Na-
tional Grand Lodge, which declared its inde-
pendence of the Grand Lodge of England in
1770 . 	(See Netherlands .)
Hah . The Hebrew definite article 1, "the ."
It forms the second syllable of the Substitute
Word .
Hail or Hale . 	This word is used among
Masons with two very different signification .
1 . When addressed as an inquiry to a visit-
ing brother it has the same import as that in
which it is used under like circumstances by
mariners . 	Thus : "Whence do you bail?"
that is,"Of what Lodge are you a member?"
Used in this sense, it comes from the Saxon
term of salutation "H . L," and should be
spelled "hail ." 2 . Its second use is confined
to what Masons understand by the "tie," and
in this sense it signifies to conceal, being de-
rived from the Saxon word "JELAN," to hide,
the e being pronounced in Anglo-Saxon as a
in the word fate . 	By the rules of etymology,
it should be spelled "hale," but is usually
spelled "hele ." The preservation of this Saxon
word in the Masonic dialect, while it has
ceased to exist in the vernacular, is a striking
proof of the antiquity of the Order and its
ceremonies in England . "In the western parts
of England," says Lord King (Crit . Hist . Ap .
Creed, p . 178), "at this very day, to hele over
anything signifies, among the common people,
to cover it ; and he that covereth an house with
tile or slate is called a helliar ."
Hall Committee . 	A committee estab-
lished in all Lodges and Grand Lodges which
own the building in which they meet, to which
is entrusted the supervision of the building .
The Grand Lodge of England first appointed

314 	HALL
its Hall Committee in 1773, for the purpose of
superintending the erection of the hall which
had been projected .
Hall, Masonic . 	For a long time after the
revival of Masonry in 1717, Masonic Lodges
continued to meet, as they had done before
that period, in taverns . Thus, the Grand
Lodge of England was organized, and, to use
the language of Anderson, "the quarterly com-
munications were revived," by four Lodges,
whose respective places of meeting were the
Goose and Gridiron Ale-House, the Crown
Ale-House, the Apple-Tree Tavern and the
Rummer and Grapes Tavern . For many
years the Grand Lodge held its quarterly
meetings sometimes at the Apple-Tree, but
principally at the Devil Tavern, and kept
the Grand Feast at the hall of one of the
Livery Companies . The first Lodge in Paris
was organized at a tavern kept in the Rue
des Boucheries by one Hure and the Lodges
subsequently organized in h'rance continued
to meet, like those of England, in public
houses . The custom was long followed in
other countries of Europe . In America the
practise ceased only at a comparatively recent
period, and it is possible that in some obscure
villages it has not yet been abandoned .
At as early a period as the beginning of the
fourteenth century, the Gilds, or Livery
Companies, of London, had their halls or
places of meeting, and in which they stored
their goods for sale . At first these were
mean buildings, but gradually they rose
into importance, and the Goldsmith's Hall,
erected in the fifteenth century, is said to
have been an edifice of large dimensions
and of imposing appearance . These halls,
probably, as they were very common in the
eighteenth century, were suggestive to the
Freemasons of similar edifices for their own
Fraternity ; but undoubtedly the necessity,
as the Association grew into importance,
of a more respectable, more convenient
and more secure locality than was afforded
by temporary resort to taverns and ale-
houses must have led to the erection of
isolated edifices for their own special use .
The first Masonic Hall of which we have
any account is the one that was erected by
the Lodge at Marseilles, in France, in the
year 1765 . Smith describes it very fully in
his Use and Abuse of Freemasonry (p . 165), and
calls it "a very magnificent hall ." In 1773,
the Grand Lodge of England made prelimi-
nary arrangements for the construction of a
hall, a considerable sum having been already
subscribed for that purpose . On the 1st of
May, 1775, the foundation-stone of the
new edifice was laid in solemn form, according
to a ceremonial which was then adopted, and
which, with a few modifications, continues to
be used at the present day on similar oc-
casions . On the foundation-stone it was
designated as Aula Latamorum, "The Free-
masons' Hall . " 	It was finished in less than
twelve months, and was dedicated, on the
23d of May, 1776, to Masonry, Virtue, Uni-
versal Charity and Benevolence ; a formula
HALL
still adhered to without variation in the
English and American rituals .
In the same year, the Lodge at Newcastle,
stimulated by the enterprise of the London
Freemasons, erected a hall ; an example
which was followed, two years afterward,
by the Lodge of Sunderland . And after
this the erection of isolated halls for Masonic
purposes became common not only in Eng-
land, Scotland, and Ireland, but all over
the Continent, wherever the funds of a Lodge
would permit of the expenditure .
In America, Lodges continued to be held
in taverns up to a very recent period . It
is not now considered reputable ; although,
as has been already remarked, the custom
is, perhaps, not entirely discontinued, espe-
cially in remote country villages . It is
impossible to tell at what precise period
and in what locality the first Masonic Hall
was erected in this country . It is true that
in a Boston paper of 1773 we find (Moore's
Mag ., xv ., 162) an advertisement summon-
ing the Masons to celebrate the festival of
St . John the Evangelist at "Freemasons'
Hall" ; but, on examination, we learn that
this was no other than a room in the Green
Dragon Tavern . Other buildings, such as
the Exchange Coffee-House, only partially
used for Masonic purposes, were subsequently
erected in Boston, and received by courtesy,
but not by right, the name of "Masonic
Halls" ; but it was not until 1832 that the
first independent hall was built in that city,
which received the name of the Masonic
Temple, a title which has since been very
usually conferred on the halls in the larger
cities . We may suppose that it was about
this time, when a resuscitation of Masonic
energy which had been paralyzed by the
anti-Masonic opposition, had commenced
to develop itself, that the Lodges and Grand
Lodges began to erect halls for their peculiar
use . At present there is no dearth of these
buildings for Masonic use of imposing
grandeur and architectural beauty to be
found scattered all over the land .
In America, as well as in Britain, the
construction of Masonic Halls is governed
by no specific rules, and is too often left to
the judgment and taste of the architect, and
hence, if that person be not an experienced
Freemason, the building is often erected
without due reference to the ritual require-
ments of the Order . But in these particulars,
says Oliver, the Masons of the Continent
are governed by a Ritual of Building, and
he quotes, as a specimen of the Helvetian
Ritual in reference to the laying of the
foundation-stone of a Masonic Hall, the
following directions :
"A Mason, assisted by two others, if there
be a dearth of workmen, or distress, or war,
or peril, or threats of danger, may begin the
work of building a Lodge ; but it is better
to have seven known and sworn workmen .
The Lodge is, as we know, due east and
west ; but its chief window or its chief door
must look to the east . On a day allowed

HALL
and a place appointed, the whole company
of builders set out after high noon to lay
the first stone ."
Far more practical are the directions of
Dr . Oliver himself for the construction of a
Masonic Hall, given in his Book of the Lodge
(ch . iii .), which is here condensed .
"A Masonic Hall should be isolated, and,
if possible, surrounded with lofty walls, so
as to be included in a court, and apart from
any other buildings, to preclude the possi-
bility of being overlooked by cowans or
eavesdroppers . As, however, such a situa-
tion in large towns can seldom be obtained,
the Lodge should be formed in an upper
story ; and if there be any contiguous build-
ings, the windows should be either in the
roof, or very high from the floor . 	These
windows ought to be all on one side-the
south, if practicable-and furnished with
proper ventilation, that the brethren be not
incommoded, when pursuing their accus-
tomed avocations, by the heat of the Lodge .
The room, to preserve a just proportion,
must, of course, be lofty . 	It should be fur-
nished with a pitched roof, open within,
and relieved with an ornamental framework
of oak, or painted so as to represent that
species of timber . 	It should be supported
on corbels running along the cornice, on
which should be engraven Masonic orna-
ments . 	The dimensions of the room, in
length and breadth, will depend in a great
measure on the situation of the Lodge, or
the space which is assigned for its position ;
and this will often be extremely circum-
scribed in a large and populous place, where
building land is scarce and dear, or the fund
inadequate to any extensive operations .
But in all cases a due proportion should be
observed in the several members of the fabric
wherever it is practicable, that no unsightly
appearance may offend the eye, by disturbing
that general harmony of parts which consti-
tutes the beauty and excellence of every
architectural production .
"The principal entrance to the Lodge
room ought to face the east, because the east
is a place of light both physical and moral ;
and therefore the brethren have access to
the Lodge by that entrance, as a symbol of
mental illumination . The approaches 	to
the Lodge must be angular, for a straight
entrance is unmasonic and cannot be toler-
ated . 	The advance from the external avenue
to the east ought to consist of three lines
and two angles . 	The first line passes through
a small room or closet for the accommodation
of visitors . At the extremity of this apart-
ment there ought to be another angular
passage leading to the Tiler's room adjacent
to the Lodge ; and from thence, by another
right angle, you are admitted into the presence
of the brethren with your face to the Light .
"In every convenient place the architect
should contrive secret cryptae or closets .
They are of indispensable utility ; but in
practice are not sufficiently attended to in
this country . On the Continent they are
HALL 	315
numerous, and are dignified with the name
of chapels . 	Two of these apartments have
already been mentioned-a room for vis-
itors and the Tiler's room ; added to which
there ought to be a vestry, where the orna-
ments, furniture, jewels, and other regalia
are deposited . This is called the treasury,
or Tiler's conclave, because these things are
under his especial charge, and a communi-
cation is usually made to this apartment
from the Tiler's room . 	There ought to be
also a chapel for preparations, hung with
black, and having only one small light,
placed high up, near the ceiling ; a chapel
for the dead furnished with a table, on
which are a lamp and emblems of mortality ;
the Master's conclave, where the records,
the warrants, the minutes, and every written
document are kept . 	To this 	room the
Worshipful Master retires when the Lodge
is called from labor to refreshment, and at
other times when his presence in the Lodge
is not essential ; and here he examines the
visitors, for which purpose a communication
is formed between his conclave 	and the
visitor's chapel . 	It is furnished with blue .
And here he transacts the Lodge business
with his Secretary . The Ark of the Covenant
is also deposited in this apartment . 	None
of these closets should exceed twelve feet
square, and may be of smaller dimensions,
according to circumstances . 	In the middle
of the hall there should be a movable trap-
door in the floor, seven feet long and three or
four feet broad, opening into a small crypt,
about three feet in depth, the use of which
is known to none but perfect Masons, who
have passed through all the symbolical de-
grees . 	All of these particulars may not be
e ually necessary to the construction of a
asonic Hall ; but a close attendance to
their general spirit and direction, or to
similar regulations, should be impressed on
every Lodge that undertakes the construc-
tion of a building exclusively for Masonic
purposes ; and such a building only is entitled
to be called a Masonic Hall ."
The division in the American Rite of the
degrees among different bodies imposes the
necessity, or at least the convenience, when
erecting a Masonic Hall in this country,
of appropriating some of the rooms to the
uses of Ancient Craft Lodges, some to Royal
Arch Chapters, some to Royal and Select
Councils, and some to Commanderies of
Knights Templars . It is neither proper
nor convenient that a Chapter should be
held in a Lodge ; and it is equally expedient
that the Asylum of a Commandery should
be kept separate from both .
All of these rooms should be oblong in
form, lofty in height, with an elevated dais
or platform in the east, and two doors in the
west, the one in the northwest corner leading
into the preparation room, and the other
communicating with the Tiler's apartment .
But in other respects they differ . 	First,
as to the color of the decorations . 	In a
Lodge room the predominating color should

316 	HALL
be blue, in a Chapter red, and in a Council
and Commandery black .
In a Lodge room the dais should be ele-
vated on three steps, and provided with a
pedestal for the Master, while on each side
are seats for the Past Masters, and digni-
taries who may visit the Lodge . The ped-
estal of the Senior Warden in the west should
be elevated on two steps and that of the
Junior Warden in the south on one .
A similar arrangement, either permanent
or temporary, should be provided in the
Chapter room for working the intermediate
degrees ; but the eastern dais should be
supplied with three pedestals instead of one,
for the reception of the Grand Council . The
tabernacle also forms an essential part of
the Chapter room . This is sometimes
erected in the center of the room, although
the consistency of the symbolism would
require that the whole room, during the
working of the Royal Arch Degree, should
be deemed a tabernacle, and then the veils
would, with propriety, extend from the
ceiling to the floor, and from one side of the
room to the other . There are some other
arrangements required in the construction
of a Chapter room, of which it is unnecessary
to speak .
Councils of Royal and Select Masters are
usually held in Chapter rooms, with an en-
tire disregard of the historical teachings
of the degrees . In a properly constructed
Council chamber, which, of course, would
be in a distinct apartment, there should be
no veils, but nine curtains of a stone color ;
and these, except the last, starting from one
side of the room, should stop short of the
other, so as to form a narrow passage be-
tween the wall and the extremities of the
curtains, reaching from the door to the
ninth curtain, which alone should reach
across the entire extent of the room . These
are used only in the Select Degree, and can
be removed when the Royal Master is to
be conferred . Unlike a Lodge and Chapter,
in a Council there is no dais or raised plat-
form ; but three tables, of a triangular form,
are placed upon the level of the floor in the
east . It is, however, very seldom that the
funds of a Council will permit of the in-
dulgence in a separate room, and those bodies
are content to work, although at a disadvan-
tage, in a Chapter room .
It is impossible, with any convenience,
to work a Commandery in a Lodge, or even
a Chapter room . The officers and their
stations are so different, that what is suitable
for one is unsuitable for the other . The
dais, which has but one station in a Lodge
and three in a Chapter, requires four in a
Commandery, the Prelate taking his proper
place on the right of the Generalissimo . But
there are other more important differences .
The principal apartment should be capable
of a division by a curtain, which should
separate the Asylum proper from the rest
of the room, as the mystical veil in the ancient
Church shut off the prospect of the altar,
HAMBURG
during the eucharistic sacrifice, from the
view of the catechumens . There are several
other rooms required in the Templar ritual
which are not used by a Lodge, a Chapter,
or a Council, and which makes it necessary
that the apartments of a Commandery should
be distinct . A banquet-room in close prox-
imity to the Asylum is essential ; and con-
venience requires that there should be an
armory for the deposit of the arms and
costume of the Knights . But it is unneces-
sary to speak of reflection rooms, and other
places well known to those who are familiar
with the ritual, and which cannot be dis-
pensed with .
Hallelujah . 	(Praise the Lord .) 	Ex-
pression of applause in the degree of Sub-
lime Ecossais, Heavenly Jerusalem, and
others .
Halliwell Manuscript . 	The earliest of
the old Constitutions . It is in poetic form,
and was probably transcribed in 1390 from
an earlier copy . The manuscript is in the
King's Library of the British Museum . It
was published in 1840 by James O . Halli-
well, and again in 1844, under the title of
The Early History of Freemasonry in Eng-
land . 	The Masonic character of the poem
remained unknown until its discovery by
Mr . Halliwell, who was not a Mason, be-
cause it was catalogued as A Poem of Moral
Duties .
It is now more commonly known as the
"Regius MS .," because it formed part of
the Royal Library commenced by Henry
VII . and presented to the British Museum
by George II . 	[E . L . H .1
Hamaliel . The name of the angel that,
in accordance with the Kabbalistical system,
governs the planet Venus .
Hamburg . 	In 1733, the Earl of Strath-
more, Grand Master of England, granted a
deputation "to eleven German gentlemen,
good Brothers, for constituting a Lodge at
Hamburg ." 	(Anderson, Constitutions, 1738,
p . 194 .) Of the proceedings of this Lodge
we have no information . 	In 1740, Bro .
Luettman brought from England a Warrant
for the establishment of a Lodge, and a patent
for himself, as Provincial Grand Master of
Hamburg and Lower Saxony . In October
1741, it assumed the name of Absalom and
in the same year the Provincial Grand lodge
of Hamburg and Saxony was opened, a body
which, Findel says (p . 239), was the oldest
Mother Lodge in Germany . About the year
1787, the Provincial Grand Lodge adopted
the newly-invented Rite of Frederick L .
Schroder, consisting of only three degrees .
In 1801, it declared itself an independent
Grand Lodge, and has so continued . The
Grand Lodge of Hamburg practises Schroder's
Rite . 	(See SchrOder .) 	There is also in Ham-
burg a sort of Chapter, which was formed by
Schroder under the title . of Geschichtliche
Engbund, or Historical Select Union . It
was intended as a substitute for Fessler's
degrees of Knowledge, the members of which
employ their time in studying the various

HAMILTON
systems of Masonry . 	The Mutter-Bund of
the Confederacy of Hamburg Lodges, which
make up this system, is independent of the
Grand Lodge . The two authorities 	are
entirely distinct, and bear much the same
relation to each other as the Grand Lodges
and Grand Chapters of the United States .
Hamilton, Hon . Robert M .A ., M .D .
Born 1820 ; died May, 1880, at Jamaica, of
which island he was District Grand Master .
This English gentleman was a member of
the Queen's Body Guard . He was appointed
District G . Master of Jamaica, November 5,
1858 ; District G . Supt . of Royal Arch Ma-
sons, January 10, 1859 ; Prov . G . M . M . M .,
1877 ; and was a supernumerary member of the
Supreme Council, 33d, of England, and Prov .
G . Master of the Royal Order of Scotland .
Hand . 	In Freemasonry, 	the hand as
a symbol holds a high place, because it is
the principal seat of the sense of feeling so
necessary to and so highly revered by Ma-
sons . 	The same symbol is found in the
most ancient religions, and some of their
analogies to Masonic symbolism are pe-
culiar . 	Thus, Horapollo says that among
the Egyptians the hand was the symbol of
a builder, or one fond of building, because all
labor proceeds from the hand . 	In many of
the Ancient Mysteries the hand, especially
the left, was deemed the symbol of equity .
In Christian art a hand is the indication
of a holy person or thing . 	In early Medi-
eval art, the Supreme Being was always
represented by a hand extended from a
cloud, and generally in the act of benedic-
tion . The form of this act of benediction,
as adopted by the Roman Church, which
seems to have been borrowed from the sym-
bols of the Phrygian and Eleusinian priests
or hierophants, who used it in their mystical
processions, presents a singular analogy,
which will be interesting to Mark Master
Masons, who will recognize in it a symbol
of their own ritual . 	In the benediction
referred to, as given in the Latin
Church, 	the thumb, index, and
middle fingers are extended, and
the two others bent against 	the
palm . The church explains this
position of the extended thumb
and two fingers as representing
the Trinity ; but the older symbol of the
Pagan priests, which was precisely of the
same form, must have had a different mean-
ing . A writer in the British Magazine (vol .
i ., p . 565) thinks that the hand, which was
used in the Mithraic mysteries in this posi-
tion, was symbolic of the Light emanating
not from the sun, but from the Creator,
directly as a special manifestation ; and he
remarks that chiromancy or divination by
the hand is an art founded upon the notion
that the human hand has some reference to
the decrees of the supreme power peculiar to
it above all other parts of the microcosmus-
man . Certainly, to the Mason, the hand
is most important as the symbol of that
mystical intelligence by which one Mason
HARLEIAN 	317
knows another "in the dark as well as in
the light ."
Hand, Left . 	See Left Hand .
Hand, Right . 	See Right Hand .
Hand to Back . 	See Points of Fellowship .
Hand to Hand . 	See Points of Fellowship .
Hands, United . 	Clasped hands are a
symbol of fidelity and trust . A Spanish
work was published at Vittoria, in 1774,
where three hands are shown united in the
vignette on the title .
Hanover . 	Freemasonry was introduced
into Hanover, in the year 1744, by the
organization of 	the Lodge "Frederick" ;
which did not, however, get into active
operation, in consequence of the opposition
of the priests, until two years after . 	A
Provincial Grand Lodge was established
in 1755, which in 1828 became an inde-
pendent Grand Lodge . 	In 1866, in conse-
quence of the war between Austria and
Prussia, Hanover was annexed to the latter
country . There being three Grand Lodges
at that time in Prussia, the king deemed it
inexpedient to add a fourth, and, by a cabi-
net order of February 17 ? 1867, the Grand
Lodge of Hanover was dissolved . 	Most of
the Hanoverian Lodges united with the
Grand Lodge Royal York at Berlin, and a
few with the Grand Lodge of the Three
Globes .
Haphtzlel . 	(Heb . ~t~' 13E1, Voluntas Dei .)
A covered word used in the Twenty-third
Degree of the A . A . Scottish Rite .
Har . 	The name of the second king in
the Scandinavian Mysteries .
Haram, Grand . 	The Seventy-third De-
gree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Harbinger . 	The title of an officer in
the Knights of the Holy Sepulcher 	and
also in the Knights of St . John the 'Evan-
gelist .
Hardie, James . 	A Mason of New York
who published, in 1818, a work entitle
The New Freemasons' Monitor and Masonic
Guide . 	It evinces considerable ability, is
more valuable than the Monitors of Webb
and Cross, and deserved a greater popularity
than it seems to have received .
Harleian Manuscripts . 	An old record
of the Constitutions of Freemasonry, so
called because it forms No . 2054 of the
collection of manuscripts in the British Mu-
seum, which were originally collected 	by
Robert Harley, Earl of Oxford, the celebrated
prime minister of Queen Anne and known
as the "Bibliotheca Harleian,' 7 or Harleian
Library . 	The MS . consists of four leaves,
containing six and a half pages of close
writing in a cramped hand, said to be that
of Randle Holmes, Chester 	Herald, 	who
died in 1699 . 	The MS . was first published
by Bro . William James Hughan, in his
Masonic Sketches and Reprints . 	The Manu-
script was carefully transcribed for Bro .
Hughan by a faithul copyist, and its cor-
rectness was verified by Mr . Sims, of the
MS . department of the British Museum .
Bro . Hughan places the date of the record

318 	HARMONY
in the middle of the seventeenth century,
and in this he is probably correct .
"The two following folios," says the Rev .
Mr . Woodford, "in the volume (viz ., 33 and
34) are of a very important character, inas-
much as the secrets of Freemasonry are
referred to in the `obligation' taken by
Initiates, and the sums are recorded which
William Wade give to be a Freemason,'
and others who were admitted members of
the Lodge . The amounts varied from five
shillings to a pound, the majority being
ten shillings and upwards . The fragment
on folio 33 is as follows, and was written
about the same time as the MS . Constitu-
tions :
" `There is severall words & signes of a
free mason to be reveiled to yu wch as yu will
answr before God at the Great & terrible
day of Judgmt yu keep secret & not to re-
vaile the same in the heares of any person
or to any but to the Mrs . & fellows of the
said society of free masons so helpe me
God, etc .' "
A facsimile of the MS . has been published
by the Quatuor Coronati Lodge .
There is another MS . in the same collection
marked No . 1492, the date of which is con-
jectured to be about 1650, or rather later .
It was copied by Bro . Henry Phillips, and
first published in the Freemasons' Quarterly
Review in 1836, pp . 288-295 . The copy, how-
ever, unfortunately, is not an exact one, as
Mr . E . A . Bond, of the Museum, who com-
pared a part of the transcript with the orig-
inal, says that " the copyist has overlooked
peculiarities in many instances ." It is im-
portant in containing the "Oath of Secrecy,"
which is in the following words :
"I, A . B . Doe, in the presence of Almighty
God, and my fellows and Brethren here
present, promise and declare that I will
not at any time hereafter, by any Act, or
Circumstance whatsoever, directly or in-
directly publish, discover, reveale, or make
knowne any of the Secrets, priviledges, or
Counsels of the Fraternity or fellowship of
Freemasonry, which at this time, or any time
hereafter shall be made known unto me ; soe
helpe nice God and the holy contents of this
book . "
A facsimile of this MS . also has been pub-
lished by the Quatuor Coronati Lodge .
Harmony . 	It is a duty especially en-
trusted to the Senior Warden of a Lodge,
who is figuratively supposed to preside over
the Craft during the hours of labor, so to
act that none shall depart from the Lodge
dissatisfied or discontented, that harmony
may be thus preserved, because, as the
ritual expresses it, harmony is the strength
and support of all well-regulated institu-
tions .
Harmony, Universal . 	See Mesmeric
Masonry .
Harnouester . 	Lord Harnouester is said
to have been elected by the four Lodges of
Paris, as the second Grand Master of France,
in 1736, succeeding the Earl of Derwentwater .
HARODIM
Nothing is known of this nobleman in con-
temporary history . Burke makes no allusion
to him in his Extinct Peerages, and probably
the name has undergone one of those in-
decipherable mutations to which French
writers are accustomed to subject all foreign
names ; indeed, Bro . R . F . Gould, in his Con-
cise History of Freemasonry (p . 355), con-
siders that the name may even be a cor-
ruption of "Derwentwater ." 	[E . L . H .]
Harodim . 	We owe the Masonic use
of this word to Anderson, who first employed
it in the Book of Constitutions, where he
tells us that "there were employed about
the Temple no less than three thousand and
six hundred Princes or Master Masons to
conduct the work," and in a note he says
that "in 1 Kings v . 16 they are called Haro-
dim, Rulers or Provosts ." 	(Constitutions,
1723, p . 10 .) The passage here alluded to
may be translated somewhat more literally
than in the authorized version, thus : "Be-
sides from the chiefs or princes appointed by
Solomon who were over the work, there were
three thousand and three hundred harodim
over the people who labored at the work ."
Harodim, in Hebrew C'1'VI, is a gram-
matically compounded word of the plural
form, and is composed of the definite article
1, HAD, the or those, and a participle of
the verb X11, radah, to rule over, and means,
therefore, those who rule over, or overseers .
In the parallel passage of 2 Chronicles ii . 18,
the word used is Menatzchim, which has a
similar meaning . But from the use of this
word Harodim in 1 Kings, and the com-
mentary on it by Anderson, it has come to
pass that Harodim is now technically used
to signify "Princes in Masonry ." They
were really overseers of the work, and hence
the Masonic use of the term is not altogether
inappropriate . Whoever inspects the two
parallel passages in 1 Kings v . 16 and 2 Chron .
ii . 18, will notice an apparent discrepancy .
In the former it is said that there were three
thousand and three hundred of these over-
seers, and in the latter the number is in-
creased to three thousand and six hundred .
The commentators have noted but not ex-
plained the incongruity . Lee, in his Temple
of Solomon, attempts to solve it by supposing
that "possibly three hundred at a second
review might be added to the number of
officers for the greater care of the business ."
This is not satisfactory ; not more so is the
explanation offered by myself, many years
ago, in the Lexicon of Freemasonry . 	It is
much more reasonable to suspect a clerical
error of some old copyist which has been
perpetuated . There is room for such an
inadvertence, for there is no very great
difference between TAT ' the Hebrew for three,
and VT, which is six . The omission of the
central letter would create the mistake .
Masonic writers have adhered to the three
thousand and six hundred, which is the
enumeration in Chronicles .
[A degree bearing this name was commonly
conferred by the Lodges in the county of

HARODIM
Durham, England, during the latter half
of the eighteenth century, but what its exact
nature was has now been forgotten .-E . L . H .]
Harodim, Grand Chapter of . An insti-
tution under the title of the "Grand Chapter
of the Ancient and Venerable Order of Haro-
dim" was established in London, in the year
1787, by the celebrated Masonic lecturer,
William Preston . 	He thus defines, in his
Illustrations, its nature and objects : (12th
ed ., p . 310 .)
"The mysteries of this Order are peculiar
to the institution itself ; while the lectures
of the Chapter include every branch of the
Masonic system, and represent the art of
Masonry in a finished and complete form .
"Different classes 	are established, 	and
particular lectures restricted to each class .
The lectures are divided into sections, and
the sections into clauses . The sections are
annually assigned by the Chief Harod to a
certain number of skilful Companions in
each class, who are denominated Section-
ists ; and they are empowered to distribute
the clauses of their respective sections, with
the approbation, of the Chief Harod and
General Director, among the private com-
panions of the Chapter, who are denomi-
nated CLAUSEHO DERS . 	Such Companions
as by assiduity become possessed of all the
sections in the lecture are called Lecturers ;
and out of these the General Director is al-
ways chosen .
"Every Clauseholder, on his appointment,
is presented with a ticket, signed by the
Chief Harod, specifying the clause allotted
to him . 	This ticket entitles him to enjoy
the rank and privileges of a Clauseholder
in the Chapter ; and no Clauseholder can
transfer his ticket to another Companion,
unless the consent of the Council has been
obtained for that purpose, and the General
Director has approved the Companion to
whom it is to be transferred as qualified to
bold it . 	In case of the death, sickness, or
non-residence in London of any Lecturer,
Sectionist, or Clauseholder, another Com-
panion is appointed to fill up the vacancy
for the time being, that the lectures may be
always complete ; and during the session
a public lecture is usually delivered at stated
times .
"The Grand Chapter is governed by a
Grand Patron, two Vice Patrons, a chief
Ruler, and two Assistants, with a Council
of twelve respectable Companions, who are
chosen annually at the Chapter nearest to
the festival of St . John the Evangelist ."
The whole system was admirably adapted
to the purposes of Masonic instruction and
was intended for the propagation of : the
Prestonian system of lectures, 	but it no
longer exists .
Harodim, Prince of . 	In the old lectures
of the Ineffable degrees, it is said that Tito,
the oldest of the Provosts and Judges, was
the Prince of Harodim, that is, chief of the
three hundred 	architects 	who were the
Harodim, or additional three hundred added
HARRIS 	319
to the thirty-three thousand Menatzchim
mentioned in Chronicles, and who thus make
up the number of three thousand six hundred
recorded in the 1st Book of Kings, and who
in the old lecture of the degree of Provost
and Judge are supposed to have been the
Harodim or Rulers in Masonry . 	The state-
ment is a myth ; but it thus attempts to
explain the discrepancy alluded to in the
article Harodim .
Harpocrates . 	The Greek god of silence
and secrecy . 	He was, however, a divinity
of the Egyptian mythology ; his true name
being, according to Bunsen and Lepsius,
Har-pi-chrati, that is, Horus the child ; and
he is supposed to have been the son of Osiris
and Isis . 	He is represented as a nude figure,
sitting sometimes on a lotus flower, either
bareheaded or covered by an Egyptian miter,
but always with his finger pressed upon his
lips . 	Plutarch thinks that this gesture was
an indication of his childlike and helpless
nature ; but the Greeks, and after them the
Romans, supposed it to be a symbol of silence ;
and hence, while he is sometimes described
as the god of the renewed year, whence peach
blossoms were consecrated to him because
of their early appearance in spring, he is
more commonly represented as the god of
silence and secrecy . 	Thus, Ovid says of
him :
"Quique premit vocem 	digitoque silentia
suadet ."
He who controls the voice and persuades to
silence with his finger .
In this capacity, his statue was often
placed at the entrance of temples and places
where the mysteries were celebrated, as an
indication of the silence and secrecy that
should there be observed . 	Hence the finger
on the lips is a symbol of secrecy, and has
so been adopted in Masonic symbolism .
Harris, Thaddeus Mason . 	The Rev .
Thaddeus Mason Harris, D .D ., an American
Masonic writer of some reputation, 	was
born in Charlestown, Mass ., July 7, 1767,
and graduated at Harvard University in 1787 .
He was ordained as minister of a church
in Dorchester in 1793, and died at Boston,
April 3, 1842 . 	He held at different times
the offices of Deputy Grand Master, Grand
Chaplain, and Corresponding Grand Secre-
tary of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts .
"His first great Masonic work, 	says Hun-
toon (Eulogy), "was the editing of a collation,
revision, and publication of the `Constitutions
of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of
Free and Accepted Masons,' a quarto volume,
printed at Worcester, Mass ., 1792 ; a work
which he accomplished with the accustomed
diligence and fidelity with which he performed
every enterprise confided to his care . 	His
various occasional addresses while Grand
Chaplain of the Grand Lodge, Masonic
defences, and his volume of Masonic Dis-
courses, published in 1801, constitute a large
and valuable portion of the Masonic classic
literature of America ."

320 	HARUSPICES
Haruspices, Order of . 	The word Harus-
pex comes from a Sanskrit word "hires," mean-
mg entrails ; therefore implying a soothsayer
or aruspice . The founder of the Etruscan
order was Tages, doubtless a myth of self-
creative power . This order is claimed to have
been reestablished in Rome at the time of
the foundation of the city . It embraced two
divisions, those who formed their judgment
from the movements and habits of animals
as well as the flight of birds, and those who
judged and foretold events by the inspection
of the entrails of newly killed animals .
These were the precursors of naturalists and
physiologists .
Hasidim, Sovereign Prince . The Seven-
ty-fifth and Seventy-sixth degrees of the Rite
of Mizraim . 	It should be Chasidim, which
see .
Hat . To uncover the head in the presence
of superiors has been, among all Christian
nations, held as a mark of respect and rever-
ence . 	The Eastern nations uncover the feet
when they enter a place of worship ; the
Western uncover the head . The converse
of this is also true ; and to keep the head
covered while all around are uncovered is a
token of superiority of rank or office . The king
remains covered, the courtiers standing around
him take off their hats .
Haupt-Hutte . Among the German Stone-
Masons of the Middle Ages, the original Lodge
at Strasburg was considered as the head of the
Craft, under the title of the Haupt-HUtte, or
Grand Lodge .
Hautes Grades . 	French . 	High Degrees,
which see .
Hayti . 	Freemasonry, which had been in
existence for several years in the island of
Hayti, was entirely extinguished by the revo-
lution which drove out the white inhabitants .
In 1809, the Grand Lodge of England granted
a charter for a Lodge at Port-au-Prince, and
for one at Cayes . In 1817, it constituted two
others, at Jeremias and at Jacmel . Subse-
quently, a Provincial Grand Lodge was es-
tablished under obedience to England . Jan-
uary 25 1824, this Provincial Grand Lodge
declared its independence and organized the
Grand Orient of Hayti, which is still in exist-
ence .
Heal . 	A technical Masonic term which
si gn ifies to make valid or legal . Hence one
who has received a degree in an irregular man-
ner or from incompetent authority is not rec-
ognized until he has been healed . The pre-
cise mode of healing depends on circumstances .
If the Lodge which conferred the degree was
clandestine, the whole ceremony of initiation
would have to be repeated . If the authority
which conferred the degree was only irregular,
and the question was merely a technical one
of legal competence, it has been supposed that
it was only necessary to exact an obligation
of allegiance, or in other words to renew the
covenant 	.
Hearing . 	One of the five senses, and an
important symbol in Masonry, because it is
through it that we receive instruction when
HEBREW
ignorant, admonition when in danger, reproof
when in error, and the claim of a brother who
is in distress . Without this sense, the Mason
would be crippled in the performance of all his
duties ; and hence deafness is deemed a dis-
qualification for initiation .
Heart . 	Notwithstanding that all the mod-
ern American Masonic Manuals and Masters'
Carpets from the time of Jeremy L . Cross ex-
hibit the picture of a heart among the em-
blems of the Third Degree, there is no such
symbol in the ritual . But the theory that
every man who becomes a Mason must first
be prepared in his heart was advanced among
the earliest lectures of the last century, and
demonstrates, as Krause properly remarks, in
Speculative Masonry, an internal principle
which addresses itself not simply to the out-
ward conduct, but to the inner spirit and con-
science of all men who seek its instructions .
Heart of Hiram Abif . 	There is a legend
in some of the high degrees and in continental
Masonry that the heart of Hiram Abif was
deposited in an urn and placed upon a monu-
ment near the holy of holies ; and in some of
the tracing boards it is represented as a sym-
bol . 	The myth, for such it is, was probably
derived from the very common custom in the
Middle Ages of persons causing their bodies
to be dismembered after death for the pur p ose
of having parts of them buried in a church, or
some place which had been dear to them in
life . Thus Hardynge, in his Metrical Chronicle
of England, tells us of Richard I . that
"He queatbed his corpse then to be buried
At Fount Everard, there at his father's feete ;
* * * * * * * * * *
His herte invyncyble to Rome be sent full mete
For their great truth and stedfast great con-
stance ."
The Medieval idea has descended to mod-
ern times ; for our present lectures say that the
ashes of Hiram were deposited in an urn .
Hebrew Chronology . 	The ecclesiastical
year commences 1st Nisan March, but the
civil reckoning begins 1st 'i'ishri, September,
which is New Year's Day .
The following dates are accepted by the
Hebrews, as given by Dr . Zunz in Remarks
prefacing "The 24 Books of the Holy Scrip-
tures according to the Massoretic Text" :
BEFORE COMMON ERA .
3988, Creation .
2332, Flood .
2040, Abraham born .
1575, Moses born .
1495, Exodus .
1051, David acknowledged king .
1015, First Temple commenced .
586, First Temple destroyed .
536, Cyrus's Decree .
516, Second Temple completed .
330, Alexander conquers Palestine .
The succeeding dates are in accord with the
research of other authorities .

HEBREW
The Temple was dedicated on five occa-
sions :
1st . B .C . 1004, 15th day of Tishri (Ethanim
and Abib) (1 Kin gs viii . 2-62) .
2d . B .C . 726, when purified from the abom-
inations of Ahaz .
3d . B .C . 516 3d Adar, upon completion of
Zerubbabel's Temple .
4th . B .C . 164, 25th Kislev, after the victory
of Judas Maccabaeus over the Syrians, the
service lasted eight days .
5th . B .C . 22, upon completion of Herod's
Temple .
The three Temples were destroyed on the
same day and month of the year . The "three-
fold destruction" of the Temple took place on
the 9th Ab, or fifth ecclesiastical month . The
destruction of the Solomonian Temple, by
Nebuchadnezzar, took place B .c . 588, or four
hundred and sixteen years after dedication .
The taking of the city of Jerusalem by Titus
is commemorated as a fast day on the 17th
Tamuz .
Passover, 14th Nisan ; "Little" Passover,
15th Iyar .
Pentecost, or "First Fruits," commemorat-
in g the giving of the law on Mount Sinai,
6th Sivan .
Great Day of Atonement, 10th Tishri .
Feast of Tabernacles, 15-21 Tishri .
Fast for commencement of siege of Jerusa-
lem by Nebuchadnezzar, 10th day of Tebeth .
Feast of Purim, 14th and 15th Adar .
King Cyrus liberated the Jews, B .C . 538 .
King Darius confirmed the decree, B .C . 520 .
(See Cyrus .)
Hebrew Faith . 	See Talmud .
Hecart, Gabriel Antoine Joseph . A
French Masonic writer, who was born at Val-
enciennes in 1755, and died in 1838 . He made
a curious collection of degrees, and invented a
system of five, namely : 1 . Kni g ht of the Prus-
sian Eagle ; 2 . Knight of the Comet ; 3 . The
Scottish Purifier ; 4 . Victorious Knight ; 5 .
Scottish Trinitarian or Grand Master Com-
mander of the Temple . This cannot be called
a Rite, because it was never accepted and
p ractised by any Masonic authority . It is
known in nomenclatures as Hecart's system .
He was the author of many dissertations and
didactic essays on Masonic subjects . He at
one time proposed to publish his collection of
degrees with a full explanation of each, but did
not carry his design into execution . Many of
them are cited in this work .
Height of the Lodge . 	From the earth to
the highest heavens . A symbolic expression .
(See Form of the Lodge .)
Heldmann, Dr . Friedrich . 	He was a
professor of political science in the Academy
of Bern in Switzerland, and was born at
Margetshochheim, in Franconia, November
24, 1770 . He was one of the most profound
of the German investigators into the history
and philosophy of Masonry . He was initiated
into the Order at Freiburg, in 1809, and, de-
voting himself to the stud y of the works of
Fessler and other eminent scholars, he resolved
HENRIETTA 	321
to establish a system founded on a collation of
all the rituals, and which should be more in
accordance with the true design of the Insti-
tution . For this purpose, in 1816, he organ-
ized the Lodge zur Brudertreue at Aarau, in
Switzerland, where he then resided as a pro-
fessor . For the Lodge he prepared a Manual,
which he proposed to publish . But the Hel-
vetian Directory demanded that the manu-
script should be given to that body for
inspection and correction, which the Lodge,
unwilling to submit to such a censorship, re-
fused to do . Heldmann, being reluctant to
involve the Lodge in a controversy with its
superiors, withdrew from it . He subsequently
published a valuable work entitled 	Die drei
altesten geschichtlichen Denkmale der deutschen
Freimaurerbruderschaft ; i . e ., The three oldest
Memorials of the German Masonic Brother-
hood, which appeared at Aarau in 1819 . In
this work, which is chiefly founded on the
learned researches of Krause, the Constitu-
tions of the Stone-Masons of Strasburg were
published for the first time .
Heler, A . 	A tiler or tegulator . From the
Anglo-Saxon " helan ." 	Also written "Hill-
yar" and "Hilliar ."
Helmet . 	A defensive weapon wherewith
the head and neck are covered . In heraldry,
it is a mark of chivalry and nobility . It was,
of course, a part of the armor of a knight, and
therefore, whatever may be the head covering
adopted by modern Knights Templars, it is
in the ritual called a helmet .
Helmets, To Deposit . 	In Templar rit-
ualism, to lay aside the covering of the head .
Helmets, To Recover . 	In Templar rit-
ualism, to resume the covering of the head .
Help . 	See Aid and Assistance .
Hemming, Samuel, D .D . 	Previous to
the union of the two Grand Lodges of England
in 1813, the Prestonian system of lectures was
practised by the Grand Lodge of Modern
Masons, while the Atholl Masons recognized
higher de gr ees, and varied somewhat in their
ritual of the lower . When the union was con-
summated, and the United Grand Lodge of
England was organized, a compromise was
effected and Dr . Hemming, who was the
Senior brand Warden, and had been distin-
guished for his skill as the Master of a Lodge
and his acquaintance with the ritual, was ap-
pointed to frame a new system of lectures .
The Prestonian system was abandoned, and
the Hemmin g lectures adopted in its place,
not without the regret of many distinguished
Masons, among whom was Dr . Oliver . Among
the innovations of Dr . Hemming, which are to
be regretted, are the abolition of the dedication
to the two Saints John, and the substitution
for it of a dedication to Solomon . Some other
changes that were made were certainly no
improvements .
Henrietta Maria . 	The widow of Charles
I ., of England . It is asserted, by those who sup-
port the theory that the Master's Degree was
invented by the adherents of the exiled house
of Stuart, and that its legend refers to the
death of Charles I . and the restoration of his

322 	HENRY
son, that in the technical Masonic expression
of the "widow's son," the allusion is to the
widow of the decapitated monarch . Those
who look farther for the foundation of the
legend give, of course no credence to a state-
ment whose plausibility depends only on a
coincidence .
Henry VI . 	King of England from 1422 to
1461 . This monarch is closely connected
with the history of Masonry because, in the
beginning of his reign and during his minority,
the celebrated "Statute of Laborers," which
prohibited the congregations of the Masons,
was passed by an intolerant Parliament, and
because of the questions said to have been pro-
posed to the Masons by the king, and their
answers, which are contained in what is called
the "Leland Manuscript," a document which,
if authentic, is highly important ; but of
whose authenticity there are as many op-
pugners as there are defenders .
Heredom . 	In what are called the "high
degrees" of the continental Rites, there is
nothing more puzzling than the etymology of
this word . We have the Royal Order of Here-
dom, given as the ne plus ultra of Masonry in
Scotland, and in almost all the Rites the Rose
Croix of Heredom, but the true meaning of the
word is apparently unknown . Ragon, in his
Orthodoxie Mafonnique (p . 91), asserts that it
has a political signification, and that it was
invented between the years 1740 and 1745, by
the adherents of Charles Edward the Pre-
tender, at the Court of St . Germain, which was
the residence, during that period, of the un-
fortunate prince, and that in their letters to
England, dated from Heredom, they mean to
denote St . Germain . He supposes it to be
derived from the Medieval Latin word "hcere-
dum," signifying "a heritage," and that it
alludes to the Castle of St . Germain, the only
heritage left to the dethroned sovereign . But
as Ragon's favorite notion was that the
hautes grades were originally instituted for the
purpose of aiding the house of Stuart in its
restoration to the throne, a theory not now
generally accepted, at least without modifi-
cation, this etymology must be taken with
some grains of allowance . The suggestion is,
however, an ingenious one .
In some of the old manuscripts the word
Heroden is found as the name of a mountain
in Scotland ; and we sometimes find in the
French Cahiers the title of "Rose Croix de
Heroden ." There is not a very great difference
in the French pronunciation of Heredom and
Heroden, and one might be a corruption of the
other . I was once inclined to this theory ; but
even if it were the correct one we should gain
nothing, for the same difficulty would recur
in tracing the root and meaning of Heroden .
The most plausible derivation is one given
in 1858, by a writer in the London Freemasons'
Magazine . 	He thinks it should be spelled
"Heredom," and traces it to the two Greek
words, Iepbs, hieros holy, and SG,aos, domos,
house . It would thus refer to Masonry as
symbolically the Holy House or Temple . In
this way the title of Rose Croix of Heredom
HERMES
would signify the Rosy Cross of the Holy
House of Masonry . This derivation is now
very generally recognized as the true one .
[But according to this view the word should
be "Hierodom ."-E . L . H .1
Hermalmes . 	A corruption of Hermes,
found in some of the old Constitutions .
Hermandad, The . 	(Spanish, "Brother-
hood .") An association of the principal cit-
ies of Castile and Aragon bound by a solemn
league for the defense of their liberties in time
of trouble . The sovereigns approved this
brotherhood as agents for suppressing the in-
creasing power of the nobles, and without cost
to the government . The Hermandad was first
established in Aragon in the thirteenth cen-
tury, and in Castile about thirty years later,
while, in 1295, thirty-five cities of Castile and
Leon formed a joint confederacy, pledging
themselves to take summary vengeance on
every robber noble who injured a member of
the association . The Santa, or Holy Broth-
erhood, finally checked so effectually the out-
rages of the nobles, that Isabella of Castile,
in 1496, obtained the sanction of the Cortez
to reorganize and extend it over the whole
kingdom .
Hermes . 	In all the old manuscript rec-
ords which contain the Legend of the Craft,
mention is made of Hermes as one of the
founders of Masonry . Thus, in the" Grand
Lodge, No . 1, MS .," whose date is 1583-and
the statement is substantially and almost ver-
bally the same in all the others-that "The
great Hermarines that was Cubys sonne, the
which Cubye was Semmes sonne, that was
Noes sonne . This same Hermarines was
afterwards called Herpes the father of Wys-
dome ; he found one of the two pillars of stone,
and found the science written therein, and he
taught it to other men ."
There are two persons of the name of
Hermes mentioned in sacred history . The
first is the divine Hermes, called by the
Romans Mercury . Among the Egyptians he
was known as Thoth . Diodorus Siculus de-
scribes him as the secretary of Osiris ; he is
commonly supposed to have been the son of
Mizraim, and Cumberland says that he was
the same as Osiris . There is, however, much
confusion among the mythologists concerning
his attributes .
The second was Hermes Trismegistus or
the Thrice Great, who was a celebrated Egyp-
tian legislator, priest, and philosopher, who
lived in the reign of Ninus, about the year of
the world 2670 . He is said to have written
thirty-six books on theology and philosophy,
and six upon medicine, all which are lost .
There are many traditions of him ; one of
which, related by Eusebius, is that he intro-
duced hieroglyphics into Egypt . This Hermes
Trismegistus, although the reality of his exist-
ence is doubtful, was claimed by the alchem-
ists as the founder of their art, whence it is
called the Hermetic science, and whence we
get in Masonry, Hermetic Rites and Hermetic
degrees. It is to him that the Legend of the
Craft refers ; and, indeed, the York Constitu-

HERMETIC
tions, which are of importance, though not
probably of the date of 926, assigned to them
by Krause, give him that title, and say that he
brought the custom of making himself un-
derstood by signs with him to Egypt . In the
first ages of the Christian church, this myth-
ical Egyptian philosopher was in fact consid-
ered as the inventor of everything known to the
human intellect . It was fabled that Pythaa
oras and Plato had derived their knowledge
from him, and, that he had recorded his in-
ventions on pillars . The Operative Masons,
who wrote the old Constitutions, obtained
their acquaintance with him from the Poly-
cronycon of the monk Ranulf Higden, which
was translated from the Latin by Trevisa,
and printed by William Caxton in 1482 . It is
repeatedly quoted in the Cooke MS ., whose
probable date is the latter part of the fifteenth
century, and was undoubtedly familiar to the
writers of the other Constitutions .
Hermetic Art . 	The art or science of Al-
chemy, so termed from Hermes Trismegistus,
who was looked up to by the alchemists as the
founder of their art . The Hermetic philoso-
phers say that all the sages of antiquity,
such as Plato, Socrates, Aristotle, and Pythag-
oras, were initiated into the secrets of their
science ; and that the hieroglyphics of Egypt
and all the fables of mythology were invented
to teach the dogmas of Hermetic philosophy .
(See Alchemy .)
Hermetic Philosophy . 	Pertaining or
belonging to that species of philosophy which
pretends to solve and explain all the phe-
nomena of nature from the three chemical
principles, salt, 	sulphur, 	and mercury .
Also that study of the sciences as pursued by
the Rosicrucian fraternity . A practise of
the arts of alchemy and similar pursuits,
involving a duplex symbolism with their pe-
culiar distinctions .
Hermetic Rite . A Rite established by
Pernetty at Avignon, in France, and more
commonly called the Illuminati of Avignon .
(See Avignon, Illuminati of .)
Herodem . 	See Heredom .
Herodem, Royal Order of . 	See Royal
Order of Scotland .
Heroden . 	"Heroden," says a MS . of the
Ancient Scottish Rite, "is a mountain situated
in the northwest of Scotland, where the first
or metropolitan Lodge of Europe was held ."
The word is not now used by Masonic writers,
and was, undoubtedly, a corruption of Here-
dom .
Heroine of Jericho . 	An androgynous de-
gree conferred, in America, on Royal Arch
Masons, their wives, and daughters . It is
intended to instruct its female recipients in
the claims which they have upon the protec-
tion of their husbands' and fathers' compan-
ions, and to communicate to them an effectual
method of proving those claims . An instance
of friendship extended to the whole family of
a benefactress by those whom she had bene-
fited, and of the influence of a solemn contract
in averting danger, is referred to in the case
of Rahab, the woman of Jericho, from whom
HEXAGON 	323
the degree derives its name ; and for this pur-
pose the second chapter of the Book of Joshua
is read to the candidate . When the degree is
received by a male, he is called a Knight of
Jericho, and when by a female, she is termed a
Heroine . It is a side or honorary degree, and
may be conferred by any Royal Arch Mason
on a candidate qualified to receive it .
N
Herring, James . 	Born in London, Eng-
land, January 12, 1794 ; died in France,
October 8, 1867 ; buried in Greenwood
Cemetery, New York, October 27, 1867 . The
family emigrated to America in 1805 . James
was initiated in Solomon's Lode, Somerville,
ew Jersey, in 1816 . He was M aster of Clin-
ton Lodge, New York City, in 1827, 1828,
1832, and 1834, a period when the anti-
Masonic spirit was in its zenith . He, with the
remaining members of Clinton Lodge, united
with St . John's, No . 1, and met in union De-
cember 18, 1834 . He instituted the formation
of the Lodge of Strict Observance, which was
constituted by Grand Lodge, December 27,
1843, R . W . Bro . Herring being the Master,
with which Lodge he remained until his death .
On September 3, 1828, he was appointed
Assistant Grand Secretary, and on June 3,
1829, was elected Grand Secretary, which
office he retained until 1846 . He sided with
the "Phillips" or "Herring" Grand Body at
the split in Grand Lodge on June 5, 1849, and
remained its Grand Secretary until 1858,
when, in June, the two Grand Lodges were
fused . He was a delegate to the Convention
of Grand Lodges held in Washington March
7, 1842 . Bro . Herring delivered the oration,
on August 25, 1847, in St . John's Lodge, in
commemoration of the M . W . G . Masters,
Morgan Lewis and Alex . H . Robertson, and
other eminent Masons, on the occasion of the
First Lodge of Sorrow held in America in the
English language . 	He was exalted in Jeru-
salem Chapter, No . 8, R . Arch, N. Y ., Janu-
ary 5, 1817, dubbed a Knights Templar in
Columbian Commandery, No . 1, N . Y ., and
was received a Sov . G . I . General, Thirty-
third Degree Scottish Rite . Bro . Herring was
a P . H . Priest, P . G . G . Sec . of the G . G . Chap-
ter, U . S ., P . G . Master of the G . Encampment,
N . Y ., and Officer of the G . G . Encampment
of U . S ., and P . G . Representative of the Ori-
ents of Brazil and France .
Hesed . A corruption of Chesed, which see .
Hesse-Cassel . 	Freemasonry appears to
have been founded in this electorate in 1743 ;
by a Lodge at Marburg, called " Zu den drei
Lowen," which afterward took the name
of "Mart Aurel zum flammenden Stern ."
A Lodge also appears to have existed in 1771,
at Cassel, called "Zum blauen Lowen ." In
1817 the Grand Mother Lodge of Hesse-Cassel
was founded, which lasted until 1821, when
the government closed all Lodges . In 1849
one was reopened by General von Helm-
schwerdt, but it was closed in 1855 . It is now
understood that this Lodge has been reopened .
Hexagon . 	A figure of six equal sides con-
stitutes a part of the camp in the Scottish
degree of Sublime Princes of the Royal Secret .

324 	HIBBUT
Stieglitz, in an essay on the symbols of Free-
masonry, published in 1825, in the Alten-
burg Zeitschrift, says that the hexagon, formed
by six triangles, whose apices converge to a
point, making the following figure,
r
is a symbol of the universal creation, the six
points crossing the central point ; thus assim-
ilating the hexagon to the older symbol of the
point within a circle .
Hibbut-Hakkeber . 	(Beating of the sep-
ulcher .) A Mohammedan belief as to the state
of the soul after death . The form and mode
of judgment is explained in Al Koran . The
sarcophagus of an orthodox Moslem is so con-
structed that the deceased can sit upright
when notified by his angel of the approach
of the examiners, who question him as to
his faith in the unity of God and the mission
of Mohammed . Satisfactory answers insure
peace ; but if to the contrary, he is beaten on
the temples with iron maces until he roars
with anguish . 	The two angels, Monker and
Nakfl, then press the earth upon the body,
which is gnawed and stung by ninety-nine
seven-headed dragons until the day of resur-
rection . As the Mohammedan was an imi-
tative religion, we naturally look for the origin
of its customs and beliefs in older faiths ; thus
the Hibbut-Hakkeber is found in the Jewish,
which taught that the angel of death would
sit on a new-made grave, the soul would re-
turn to the body, which would stand up, the
angel striking it thrice with a chain, half iron
and half fire ; at the first blow all the limbs
were loosened, at the second the bones were
dispersed, but gathered again by angels, and
the third stroke reduces it to dust . This need
not occur to those who died on the Sabbath
or in the land of Israel . (See Gilgul .)
Hieroglyphics . 	From two Greek words
which signify the engraving of sacred things .
Hieroglyphics are properly the expressions of
ideas by representations of visible objects,
and the word is more peculiarly applied to
that species of picture-writing which was in
use among the ancient Egyptians, whose
priests by this means concealed from the pro-
fane that knowledge which they communi-
cated only to their initiates . Browne says
(Master Key, p . 87), "The wages amongst
Masons have ever corresponded with those
of the ancient Egyptians . 	Their Philosophers,
unwilling to expose their Mysteries to vulgar
Curiosity, couched the Principles of their
Learning and Philosophy under Hieroglyph-
ical Figures and Allegorical Emblems, and ex-
pressed their notions of Government by Signs
and Symbols, which they communicated to
HIGH
the Magi, or wise Men only, who were sol-
emnly obligated never to reveal them ."
Hierogrammatists . 	The title of those
priests in the Egyptian mysteries to whom
were confided the keeping of the sacred rec-
ords . 	Their duty was also to instruct the
neophytes in the ritual of initiation, and to
secure its accurate observance .
Hieronymites . 	A hermit order estab-
lished in the fourteenth century, formed
from the third Order of St . Francis . Fol-
lowers of Thomas of Siena, who established
themselves among the wild districts of the
Sierra Morena, and so forming a community,
obtained approval of Pope Gregory X I . i n
1374 .
Hierophant . 	From the Greek, iepo*dvrgr,
which signifies one who explains the sacred
things . 	The Hierophant was, in the Ancient
Mysteries, what the Master is in a Masonic
Lodge-he who instructed the neophyte in
the doctrines which it was the object of the
mysteries to inculcate .
Hierophant or Mystagog . 	The Chief
Priest of the Eleusinians, selected from the
grade of Eumolpidens . He was selected for
his imposing personal presence, and his
dignity was sustained by the grandeur of
his attire, his head encircled with a costly
diadem . 	He was required to be perfect in
animal structure, without blemish, and in the
vigor of life, with a commanding voice . He
was presumed to be surrounded by a halo
of holiness . His duty was to maintain and
also expound the laws . He was the intro-
ductor of the novices into the Eleusinian
Temple, and passed them from the lesser
into the greater mysteries, where he became
the Demiurg, and impressed the initiate
while instructing him by his manner and
voice . 	His title of Nystagog was awarded
because he alone revealed the secret or
mystery .
Hierophylax . 	Title of the guardian of
the holy vessels and vestments, as used in
several Rites .
High Degrees . 	Not long after the in-
troduction of Freemasonry on the Continent,
in the beginning of the eighteenth century,
three new degrees were invented and named,
Ecossais, Novice, and Knights Templar .
These gave the impulse to the invention of
many other degrees all above the Master's
Degree . To these the name of hautes grades
or high degrees was given . Their number
is very great . Many of them now remain
only in the catalogues of Masonic collectors,
or are known merely by their titles ; while
others still exist, and constitute the body
of the different Rites . The word is not
properly applicable to the Royal Arch or
degrees of the English and American systems,
which are intimately connected with the
Master's Degree, but is confined to the
additions made to Ancient Craft Masonry
by 	continental ritualists . These degrees
have, from time to time, met with great
opposition as innovations on Ancient Ma-
sonry, and some of the Grand Lodges have

HIGHEST
not only rejected them, but forbidden their
cultivation by those who are under their
obedience . But, on the other hand, they
have been strenuously supported by many
who have believed the Ancient Craft degrees
do not afford a sufficient field for the ex-
pansion of Masonic thought . A writer in
the London Freemasons' 	Magazine (1858,
i ., 1167) has expressed the true theory on
this subject in the following language :
"It is the necessary consequence of an
exclusive addiction to Craft Masonry that
the intellectual and artistic development
of the minds of the members must suffer,
the ritual sink to formalism, and the ad-
ministration fall into the hands of the lower
members of the Order, by a diminution in
the initiations of men of high intellectual
calibre, and by the inactivity, or practical
secession, of those within the Order . The
suppression of the higher degrees, that is,
of the higher Masonry, may be agreeable to
those who are content to possess the admin-
istrative functions of the Order without gen-
uine qualifications for their exercise, but it
is a policy most fatal to the true progress
of the Order . When Masonry has so fallen,
to restore the higher degrees to their full
activity is the measure essential for re-
storing the efficacy of Masonry within and
without . Thus, in the last century, when
Craft Masonry had spread rapidly over the
whole of Europe, a reaction set in, till the
heads of the Order brought the high degrees
into vigor, and they continued to exercise
the most powerful influence ."
Highest of Hills . 	In the Old York
Lectures was the following passage : "Be-
fore we had the convenience of such well-
formed Lodges, the Brethren used to meet
on the highest of hills and in the lowest of
valleys . And if they were asked why they
met so high, so low, and so very secret,
they replied-the better to see and observe
all that might ascend or descend ; and in
case a cowan should appear, the Tiler might
give timely notice to the Worshipful Mas-
ter, by which means the Lodge might be
closed, the jewels put by, thereby prevent-
ing any unlawful intrusion ." Comment-
ing on this, Dr . Oliver (Landm ., i ., 319) says :
" Amongst other observances which were
common to both the true and spurious
Freemasonry, we find the practice of per-
forming commemorative rites on the highest
of hills and in the lowest of valleys . 	This
practice was in high esteem amongst all the
inhabitants of the ancient world, from a
fixed persuasion that the summit of moun-
tains made a nearer approach to the celes-
tial deities, and the valley or holy cavern
to the infernal and submarine gods than
the level country ; and that, therefore, the
prayers of mortals were more likely to be
heard in such situations ." Hutchinson also
says : "The highest hills and the lowest
valleys were from the earliest times esteemed
sacred, and it was supposed that the Spirit
of God was peculiarly diffusive in those
HIGH 	325
places ." The sentiment was expressed in
the language of the earliest lectures of the
eighteenth century, and is still retained,
without change of words, in the lectures
of the present day . But introduced, at
first, undoubtedly with special reference
to the ancient worship on "high places,"
and the celebration of the mysteries in the
caverns of initiation, it is now retained
for the purpose of giving warning and in-
struction as to the necessity of security and
secrecy in the performance of our mystical
rites, and this is the reason assigned in
the modern lectures . And, indeed, the
notion of thus expressing the necessity of
secrecy seems to have been early adopted,
while that of the sacredness of these places
was beginning to be lost sight of ; for in a
lecture of the middle of the last century,
or perhaps earlier, it was said that "the
Lodge stands upon holy ground, or the
highest hill or lowest vale, or in the Vale
of Jehosophat, or any other secret place ."
The sacredness of the spot is, it is true,
here adverted to, but there is an emphasis
given to its secrecy .
This custom of meeting on the "highest
hills and in the lowest valleys" seems to have
prevailed at Aberdeen, Scotland, for they
say : "We ordain that no Lodge beholden
within a dwelling-house where there is people
living in it, but in the open fields, except
it be ill weather, and then let a house be
chosen that no person shall heir or sie us ."
Also, "We ordain lykewayes that all entering
prentieses be entered in our ancient out-
field Lodge in the mearnes in the Parish of
Negg, at the Stonnies at the poynt of the
Ness ." 	[E . E . C .]
High Grades . 	Sometimes used for High
Degrees, which see .
High Priest . The presiding officer of
a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons according
to the American system . His title is "Most
Excellent," and he represents Joshua, or
Jeshua, who was the son of Josedech, and
the High Priest of the Jews when they re-
turned from the Babylonian exile . He is
seated in the east, and clothed in the apparel
of the ancient High Priest of the Jews . He
wears a robe of blue, purple, scarlet, and
white linen, and is decorated with a breast-
plate and miter . On the front of the miter
is inscribed the words, "HOLINESS TO THE
LORD ." 	His jewel is a miter .
High Priesthood, Order of . 	This order
is an honorarium, to be bestowed upon
the High Priest of a Royal Arch Chapter
in the United States, and consequently no
one is legally entitled to receive it until he
has been duly elected to preside as High
Priest in a regular Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons . It should not be conferred when a
less number than three duly qualified High
Priests are present . Whenever the cere-
mony is performed in ample form, the as-
sistance of at least nine High Priests, who
have received it, is requisite . The General
Grand Chapter of the United States has

326 	HIGH
decided that although it is highly expedi-
ent that every High Priest should receive
the order, yet its possession is not essentially
necessary as a qualification for the discharge
of his official duties .
REVERSE .
OBVERSE .
The jewel of the degree consists of a plate
of gold in the form of a triple triangle, a
breastplate being placed over the point of
union . In front, the face of each triangle
is inscribed with the Tetragrammaton,
rflrr ; on the other side, the upper tri-
angle has the following mystical notation,
o 	~ 0 ; the two lower triangles have
the Hebrew letters t and 7 inserted upon
them . Each side of each triangle should
be one inch in length, and may be orna-
mented at the fancy of the wearer . The
breastplate may be plainly engraved or set
with stones . It was adopted in 1856, on the
suggestion of the author of this work, at a
very general but informal meeting of Grand
and Past Grand High Priests during the
session of the General Grand Chapter held
at Hartford, Conn . It is now in general use .
It is impossible, from the want of au-
thentic documents, to throw much light
upon the historical origin of this degree .
No allusion to it can be found in any ritual
works out of America, nor even here an-
terior to about the end of the last and be-
ginning of this century . Webb is the first
who mentions it, and gives it a place in the
series of capitular degrees . The question
has, however, been exhaustively examined
by Bro . 	William Hacker, Past Grand
High Priest of Indiana, who has paid much
attention to the subject of American Masonic
archeology . In a letter to the author in Au-
gust, 1873, he sought to investigate the
origin of this Order, and I gladly avail my-
self of the result of his inquiries .
Thomas Smith 	Webb," 	Says 	Bro .
HIGH
Hacker, "in the first edition of his Monitor,
published in 1797, makes no mention of it .
But in the second edition, published in
1802, he gives a monitorial ritual for the
Order ; or, as he terms it, Observations on
the Order ,
of High Priests .
"Now, I infer, as we find no mention
of the Order in the edition of 1797, and a
monitorial ritual appearing in the edition
of 1802, that at some time between those
dates we must look for the true origin of
the Order .
"Turning then to the proceedings of the
General Grand Chapter of the United States,
we find that at the Communication held in
the city of Providence in the State of Rhode
Island, on the 9th clay of January, 1799,
Benjamin Hurd, Jr ., Thomas S . Webb,
and James Harrison were appointed ` a com-
mittee to revise the Constitution, and report
such alterations and amendments thereto
as they shall find necessary to be made .'
" The next day, January 10, 1799, Webb
as chairman of the committee, submitted
their report which was adopted as reported .
In Article N . of that Constitution, we find
the forms for constituting new Chapters
and installing High Priests fully laid down
and provided for . In those forms, after
certain ceremonies had been gone through
with, `All the Companions, except High
Priests and Past High Priests, are requested
to withdraw, while the new High Priest is
solemnly bound to the performance of his
duties ; and after the performance of other
necessary ceremonies, not proper to be
written, they are permitted to return .'
"Now, right here the question naturally
arises, What were those `other necessary
ceremonies not proper to be written'? A
few lines farther on we find this language
laid down : `In consequence of your cheer-
ful acquiescence with the charges and reg-
ulations just recited, I now declare you duly
installed and anointed High Priest of this
new Chapter .' Now do not the words
`and anointed,' as here used, fully answer
the question as to what those `other neces-
sary ceremonies' were? It seems so to me .
"Upon this theory, then, we have Thomas
Smith Webb and his associates on the com-
mittee, Benjamin Hurd, Jr ., and James
Harrison, as the authors of the Order . It
was adopted by the General Grand Chapter
on the 10th day of January, 1799, when it
became a part of the constitutional re-
quirements of Royal Arch Masonry
'Genera
so far
at least as the authority of the l
Grand chapter extended .
"Following this matter out, we find that
this provision of the Constitution was re-
tained until the Triennial Communication
held in the city of Lexington, Kentucky,
on the 19th day of September, 1853 when,
on motion of Companion Gould, the sec-
tion was repealed ; thus leaving the Order
of High Priesthood the exclusive property
of those who were in possession of it .
"Where these Excellent Companions got

HIGH
the original thought or germ out of which
the Order was formed will have, perhaps, to
be left to conjecture ; yet even here I think
we may find some data upon which to found
a conclusion .
"In setting about the formation of an
order suitable for the office of High Priest,
what could be more natural or appropriate
than to take the scriptural history of the
meeting of Abraham with Melchizedek,
Priest of the Most High God ; the circum-
stances which brought that meeting about ;
the bringing forth the bread and wine ; the
blessing, etc . ; and the anointing of Aaron
and his sons to the Priesthood under the
Mosaic dispensations . It does seem to me
that these would be the most natural sources
for any one to go to for facts and circum-
stances to work into an order of this kind .
"We can illustrate this point farther by
reference to a note found in an old ritual
of the `Mediterranean Pass,' as then-and
perhaps it may be so now-conferred under
the Grand Priory of England and Wales, pre-
paratory to the Order of Malta . That note
read as follows :
" `In some Priories the candidate partakes
of bread from the point of a sword, and
wine from a chalice placed upon the blade,
banded to him by the Prelate .'
"Again, in an old manuscript of the ritual
of the Royal Grand Conclave of Scotland,
now also lying before me, I find similar
language used in the ritual of the Templars'
Order . How well the thoughts contained
in these extracts have been worked into the
Order of High Priest, every well-informed
High Priest must very well understand .
"But the question now comes up : were
Webb and his associates in possession of
these rituals at the time they originated the
Order of High Priesthood? I think they
were, and for these reasons : In these rituals
to which I have referred I find these ex-
ressions used : `That I will not shed the
Mood of a K . T . unlawfully ;' `the skull to
be laid open, and all the brains to be exposed
to the scorching rays of the sun ;' with several
other familiar expressions, which every
Royal Arch Mason will readily recognize
as appropriately wrought into Webb's Royal
Arch Degree .
"From the foregoing facts, as well as
others not stated, I infer that Thomas
Smith Webb with his co-advisers, Benja-
min Hurd, Yr ., and James Harrison, were
the true authors of the Order ; that it dates
from the 10th day of January, 1799, at
which time it was adopted by the General
Grand Chapter, and became a part of the
constitutional regulations and requirements
of Royal Arch Masonry so far as the au-
thority of the General Grand Chapter ex-
tended, and that it continued as such until
the 19th day of September, 1853, when it
was repealed, as before stated .
"A thought or two further, and I will
have done . Webb, in arranging the Order,
evidently intended that it should be con-
HIGH 	327
ferred as a part of the installation ceremonies
of a High Priest ; and whether he ever con-
ferred it at any other time or in any other
manner I have been unable to learn, as I
have never met with any one who claimed
to have received the Order from him . At
what time and by whom it was first conferred
as a separate ceremonial is equally unknown
to me . All I have yet been able to find
upon this point is in Cross's Chart, where,
in the edition of 1826, and it may also be
in the earlier editions, I find it arranged as
a separate ceremonial, and disconnected with
the ceremonies of installation .
"The earliest authentic record of the or-
ganization of a Council of High Priests I
have yet found is in the proceedings of the
Grand Chapter of Ohio in 1828, where it
appears that a Council was duly formed,
rules adopted for its government, and a full
list of officers elected, with Companion
John Snow as President .
"It is more than probable that the Order
has always been conferred, west of the
mountains, as a separate ceremonial, and
never as a part of the installation ceremonies .
It is well known that John Snow, who no
doubt brought it with him when he came to
the West, always so conferred it, and not
then until the applicant had been regularly
elected and installed as High Priest of his
Chapter . I have also met with those who
claimed to have received it from the cele-
brated Lorenzo Dow, of whom it is further
alleged that he always required an election
and installation as a prerequisite to the Order .
With these facts before us, and I have no
doubt of the truth of every word of them,
I would ask of those who have attempted
to heap such obloquy and derision upon the
Order, as Dr . Mitchell and others who have
followed him, to point us to any other single
order or degree of Masonry that can be traced
so successfully to the source from whence it
came ; that has in it more of the elements
of sublimity and impressiveness, and that is
more scripturally and Masonically appropriate
for that for which it was intended, than has
this much-maligned Order of High Priest-
hood ; remembering also that it was estab-
lished upon the constitutional authority of
the General Grand Chapter of the United
States, which is, and ever has been, the
highest authority in Royal Arch Masonry
in the United States . And again, among
the names of those zealous companions who
participated in its adoption stands that
of the Honorable De Witt Clinton, for
so many years the zealous and efficient
General Grand High Priest . Then I say,
when we take all these facts together, as
they stand recorded before us, I think the
question as to the origin and authenticity
may be considered as fully settled ."
High Priest of the Jews . 	The im-
portant office of the High Priesthood was
instituted by Moses after the completion of
the directions for erecting the tabernacle,
and was restricted to Aaron and his de-

328 	HIGH
scendants, and was so confined until the
time of the Asmonean dynasty, when it
passed into the family of Judas Maccabmus .
The High Priest was at the head not only
of ecclesiastical but of civil affairs, presiding
in the Sanhedrim and judging the people .
He superintended the Temple, directing the
mode of worship, and preserving the building
from profanation . 	He was inducted into
his office by anointment and sacrifices, and
was invested with a peculiar dress . This
dress, as the Rabbis describe it, consisted
of eight parts, namely, the breastplate, the
ephod, with its curious girdle, the robe
of the ephod, the miter, the broidered coat,
and the girdle . 	The materials of which
these were composed were gold, blue, red,
purple, and fine white linen . As these gar-
ments are to a certain extent represented
in the vestment of a High Priest of a Royal
Arch Chapter, a brief description of them
may be expedient :
The High Priest was first clothed in a
pair of linen drawers . 	Over this was a coat
or shirt of fine linen reaching to his feet,
and with sleeves extending to his wrists .
Over this again was a robe of blue, called
the coat of ephod . 	It was without sleeves,
but consisted of two pieces, one before and
another behind, having a large opening in
the top for the passage of the head, and an-
other on each side to admit the arms . 	It
extended only to the middle of the legs,
and its skirt was adorned with little golden
bells and pomegranates . 	Above all these
vestments was placed the ephod, which has
already been described as a short garment
coming down only to the breast before, but
somewhat longer behind, without sleeves,
and artificially wrought with gold, and blue,
and purple, and scarlet, in embroidery of
various figures . 	It was looped on the shoul-
ders with two onyx stones, on each of
which was inscribed the names of six of the
tribes . 	On the front of the ephod he wore
the breastplate ; at solemn ministrations a
miter of fine linen of a blue color . This was
wrapped in several folds, and worn about
his head in the manner of a Turkish turban,
except that it was without a crown, being
open on top, and sitting on his head like a
garland . 	In front of it there hung down
upon his forehead a square plate of gold,
called the plate of the golden crown, upon
which were inscribed the words HOLINESS
TO THE LORD, which were engraved in the
ancient Hebrew or Samaritan characters .
The vestments of a High Priest of a Royal
Arch Chapter are intended to represent-
though the representation is imperfect-
the gorgeous apparel of the Jewish Pontiff .
They are a miter, breastplate, and a robe of
four colors . 	To these the Masonic ritual-
ists have ascribed a symbolic signification .
The miter teaches the High Priest the
dignity of his office ; the breastplate, his
responsibility to the laws and ordinances
of the Institution and that the honor and
interest of the C= hapter should be always
HINDUSTAN
near his heart ; and the robe, the different
graces and virtues which are symbolized
by the various colors of which it is composed .
High Twelve . 	The hour of noon or
twelve o'clock in the day, when the sun is
high in the heavens, in contradistinction
to low twelve, or midnight, when the sun is
low down beneath the earth . 	The expression
is always used, in Masonic language, to
indicate the hour of noon, at which time,
as the tradition tells us, the Craft in the
Temple were called from labor to refresh-
ment . 	The phrase was used in the earliest
rituals of the last century . 	The answer in
the old catechisms to the question, "What's
a clock?" was always, "High Twelve ."
Hindustan, Mysteries of . 	Of all the
ethnic religions, that of Hindustan is admitted
to be the oldest, for its Vedas or sacred books
claim an antiquity of nearly forty centuries .
However Brahmanism may have been cor-
rupted in more modern times, in its earliest
state it consisted of a series of doctrines which
embraced a belief in a Supreme Being and in
the immortality of the soul . 	All primitive
religions were more or less mystical, and that
of India formed no exception to the - rule .
Oliver, . in his History of Initiation, has given
a very succinct account of the Brahmanical
mysteries, collected from the most authen-
tic sources, such as Maurice, Colebrook,
Jones, and Faber . 	His description refers
almost exclusively to the reception and
advancement of a Brahman in his sacred
profession ; for the initiations of India, like
those of Egypt, were confined to the priest-
hood . 	All Brahmans, it is true, 	do not
necessarily belong to the sacerdotal order,
but every Brahman who has been initiated,
and thus been made acquainted with the
formulas of worship, may at any time be-
come an officiating priest . 	The ceremonies
of initiation, as they have been described
by Oliver, were celebrated in spacious cav-
erns, the principal of which were Elephanta
and Salsette, both situated near Bombay .
The mysteries were divided into four degrees,
and the candidate was permitted to perform
the probation of the first at the early age
of eight years . 	It consisted simply in the
investiture with the linen garment and Zennar
or sacred cord ; of sacrifices accompanied by
ablutions ; and of an explanatory lecture .
The aspirant was now delivered into the care
of a Brahman, who thenceforth became his
spiritual guide, and prepared him by re-
peated instructions and a life of austerity
for admission into the second degree . 	To
this, if found qualified, he was admitted at
the requisite age . The probationary cere-
monies of this degree consisted in an in-
cessant occupation in prayers, fastings, ab-
lutions, and the study of astronomy . 	Having
undergone these austerities for a sufficient
period, he was led at night to the gloomy
caverns of initiation, which had been duly
prepared for his reception .
The interior of this cavern was brilliantly
illuminated, and there sat the three chief

19INDUSTAN
hierophants, in the east, west, and south,
representing the gods Brahma, Vishnu, and
Siva, surrounded by the attendant mysta-
gogues, dressed in appropriate 	vestments .
After an invocation to the sun, the aspi-
rant was called upon to promise that he
would be obedient to his superiors, keep
his body pure, and preserve inviolable
secrecy on the subject of the mysteries . 	He
was then sprinkled with water, an invoca-
tion of the Deity was whispered in his ear ;
he was divested of his shoes, and made to
circumambulate the cavern three times, in
imitation of the course of the sun, whose
rising was personated by the hierophant
representing Brahma, stationed in the east,
whose meridian height by the representative
of Siva in the south, and whose setting by
the representative of Vishnu in the west . 	He
was then conducted through seven ranges
of dark and gloomy caverns, during which
period the wailing of Mahadeva for the loss
of Siva was represented by dismal howlings .
The usual paraphernalia of flashes of light, of
dismal sounds and horrid phantoms, was
practised to intimidate or confuse the aspi-
rant . 	After the performance of a variety
of other ceremonies, many of which we can
only conjecture, the candidate reached the
extremity of the seven caverns ; he was now
prepared for enlightenment by requisite in-
struction and the administration of a solemn
oath .
This part of the ceremonies being con-
cluded, the sacred conch was blown, 	the
folding-doors were suddenly thrown 	open,
and the aspirant was admitted into a spa-
cious apartment filled with dazzling light,
ornamented with statues and emblematical
figures, richly decorated with gems, and
scented with the most fragrant perfumes .
This was a representation of Paradise .
The candidate was now supposed to be
regenerated, and he was invested by the
chief Brahman with the white robe and
tiara ; a cross was marked upon his fore-
head, and a tau upon his breast, and he
was instructed in the signs, tokens, and
lectures of the Order . 	He was presented
with the sacred belt, the magical black
stone, the talismanic jewel to be worn upon
his breast, and the serpent stone, which, as
its name imported, was an antidote against
the bite of serpents . And, lastly, he was
entrusted with the sacred name, 	known
only to the initiated . 	This ineffable name
was AUM, which, in its triliteral form, was
significant of the creative, preservative, and
destroying power, that is, of Brahma, Vishnu,
and Siva . It could not be pronounced, but
was to be the subject of incessant silent con-
templation . 	The symbols and the aporrheta,
or secret things of the mysteries, were now
explained .
Here ended 	the Second Degree . 	The
Third took place when the candidate had
grown old, and his children had all been
provided for . 	This consisted in a total
exclusion in the forest, where, as an anchorite,
HIRAM 	329
he occupied himself in ablutions, prayers,
and sacrifices .
In the Fourth Degree he underwent still
greater austerities, the object of which was to
impart to the happy sage who observed them
a portion of the Divine nature, and to secure
him a residence among the immortal gods .
The object of the Indian mysteries appears,
says Oliver, to have been to teach the unity of
God and the necessity of virtue . The happi-
ness of our first parents, the subsequent de-
pravity of the human race, and the universal
deluge were described in a manner which
showed that their knowledge must have been
derived from an authentic source .
Hinnom . 	A deep valley south of Mt .
Moriah, known as Gehenna ; in which carrion
was cast as food for vultures . The holy valley
of judgment, Jehoshaphat, has been improp-
erly substituted for Hinnom .
Hiram . 	The gavel, when wielded by the
Master of the Lodge, is sometimes called the
Hiram, because as the workmen at the Tem-
ple were controlled and directed by Hiram,
the chief builder, so the Master preserves
order in the Lodge by the proper use of the
gavel .
Hiram or Huram . 	In Hebrew, t 	or
=Vi, meaning noble-born . The more correct
pronunciation, according to the true value of
the Hebrew letters, is Khuram or Khurum ;
but universal Masonic usage renders it now
impossible, or, at least, inexpedient, to make
the change . The name of the King of Tyre is
spelled Hiram everywhere in Scripture except
in 1 Chronicles xiv . 1, where it occurs as
Huram . 	In 1 Chron . xiv . 1, the original
Hebrew text has Hiram, but the Masorites
in the margin direct it to be read Huram . In
our authorized version, the name is spelled
Hiram, which is also the form used in the Vul-
gate and in the Targums ; the Septuagint has
Xezpdμ, or Cheiram .
Hiram Abif . 	There is no character in the
annals of Freemasonry whose life is so de-
pendent on tradition as the celebrated archi-
tect of King Solomon's Temple . 	Profane his-
tory is entirely silent in respect to his career,
and the sacred records supply us with only
very unimportant items . To fill up the space
between his life and his death, we are neces-
sarily compelled to resort to those oral legends
which have been handed down from the an-
cient Masons to their successors . Yet, look-
ing to their character, I should be unwilling to
vouch for the authenticit 	of all ; most of
them were probably at first symbolical in
their character ; the symbol in the lapse of
time having been converted into a myth, and
the myth, by constant repetition, having as-
sumed the formal appearance of a truthful
narrative . 	Such has been the case in the his-
tory of all nations . But whatever may have
been their true character, to the Mason, at
least, they are interesting, and cannot be alto-
gether void of instruction .
When King Solomon was about to build a
temple to Jehovah, the difficulty of obtaining
skilful workmen to superintend and to exe-

330 	HIRAM
cute the architectural part of the undertaking
was such ; that he found it necessary to re-
quest of his friend and ally, Hiram, King of
Tyre, the use of some of his most able build-
ers ; for the Tyrians and Sidonians were cele-
brated artists, and at that time were ad-
mitted to be the best mechanics in the world .
Hiram willingly complied with his request,
and despatched to his assistance an abun-
dance of men and materials, to be employed in
the construction of the Temple, and among
the former, a distinguished artist, to whom
was given the superintendence of all the work-
men, both Jews and Tyrians, and who was in
possession of all the skill and learning that
were required to carry out, in the most effi-
cient manner, all the plans and designs of
the King of Israel .
Of this artist whom Freemasons recognize
sometimes as Iiiram the Builder, sometimes
as the Widow's Son, but more commonly as
Hiram Abif, the earliest account is found in
the 1st Book of Kings (vii . 13, 14), where the
passage reads as follows :
"And King Solomon sent and fetched
Hiram out of Tyre . He was a widow's son
of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a
man of Tyre, a worker in brass, and he was
filled with wisdom and understanding, and
cunning to work all works in brass . And he
came to King Solomon and wrought all his
work ."
He is next mentioned in the 2d Book of
Chronicles (ch . ii . 13, 14), in the following
letter from Hiram of Tyre to King Solomon .
o
" And now I have sent a cunning man,
endued with understanding, of Huram my
father's . The son of a woman of the daugh-
ters of Dan, and his father was a man of Tyre,
skilful to work in gold and in silver, in brass,
in iron, in stone and in timber, in purple, in
blue and in fine linen and in crimson ; also to
grave any manner of graving, and to find out
every device which shall be put to him, with
thy cunning men, and with the cunning men
f my lord D avid, thy'father ."
In reading these two descriptions, everyone
will be at once struck with an apparent con-
tradiction in them in relation to the parentage
of their subject . There is no doubt-for in
this both passages agree that his father was a
man of Tyre ; but the discrepancy is in refer-
ence to the birthplace of his mother, who in
one passage is said to have been "of the tribe
of Naphtali," and in the other, "of the daugh-
ters of Dan ." Commentators have, however,
met with no difficulty in reconciling the con-
tradiction, and the suggestion of Bishop Pat-
rick is now generally adopted on this subject .
He supposes that she herself was of the tribe
of Dan, but that her first husband was of the
tribe of Naphtali, by whom she had this son ;
and that when she was a widow, she married
a man of Tyre, who is called Hiram's father
because he bred him up and was the husband
of his mother .
Hiram Abif undoubtedly derived much of
his knowledge in mechanical arts from that
man of Tyre who had married his mother,
HIRAM
and we may justly conclude that he increased
that knowledge by assiduous study and con-
stant intercourse with the artisans of Tyre,
who were greatly distinguished for their - at-
tainments in architecture . Tyre was one of
the principal seats of the Dionysiac fraternity
of artificers, a society engaged exclusively in
the construction of edifices, and living under a
secret organization, which was subsequently
imitated by the Operative Freemasons . Of
this association, it is not unreasonable to sup-
pose that Hiram Abif was a member, and that
on arriving at Jerusalem he introduced among
the Jewish workmen the same exact system
of discipline which he had found of so much
advantage in the Dionysiac associations at
home, and thus gave, under the sanction of
King Solomon, a peculiar organization to the
Masons who were engaged in building the
Temple .
Upon the arrival of this celebrated artist
at Jerusalem, which was in the year n .c .
1012, he was at once received into the intimate
confidence of Solomon, and entrusted with
the superintendence of all the workmen, both
Tyrians and Jews, who were engaged in the
construction of the building . He received the
title of "Principal Conductor of the Works,"
an office which, previous to his arrival, had
been filled by Adoniram, and, according to
Masonic tradition, formed with Solomon and
King Hiram of Tyre, his ancient patron, the
Supreme Council of Grand Masters, in which
everything was determined in relation to the
construction of the edifice and the govern-
ment of the workmen .
The Book of Constitutions, as it was edited
by Entick (ed . 1756, p . 19), speaks of him in
the following language : "This inspired master
was, without question, the most cunning, skil-
ful, and curious workman that ever lived ;
whose abilities were not confined to building
only, but extended to all kinds of work,
whether in gold, silver, brass or iron ; whether
in linen, tapestry or embroidery ; whether
considered as architect, statuary, founder or
designer, separately or together, he equally
excelled . From his designs and under his di-
rection, all the rich and splendid furniture of
the Temple and its several appendages were
begun, carried on, and finished . Solomon ap-
pointed him, in his absence, to fill the Chair
as Deputy Grand Master, and in his pres-
ence, Senior Grand Warden, Master of Work,
and general overseer of all artists, as well those
whom David had formerly procured from
Tyre and Sidon, as those Hiram should now
send ."
This statement requires some correction .
According to the most consistent systems
and the general course of the traditions, there
were three Grand Masters at the building of
the Temple, of whom Hiram Abif was one,
and hence in our Lodges he always receives
the title of a Grand Master . We may, how-
ever, reconcile the assertion of Anderson, that
he was sometimes a Deputy Grand Master,
and sometimes a Senior Grand Warden, by
supposing that the three Grand Masters were,

ITALY
were established under his auspices . In 1738,
Pope Clement XIV . issued his bull forbidding
all congregations of Freemasons, which was
followed in January, 1739, by the edict of
Cardinal Firrao, which inflicted the penalty of
death and confiscation of goods on all who
should contravene the Papal order . Several
arrests were made at Florence by the Inqui-
sition, but, through the intercession of the
Grand Duke, the persons who had been ar-
rested were set at liberty .
For many years Freemasonry held but a
precarious existence in Italy, the persecutions
of the Church preventing any healthy growth .
The Masons continued to meet, although gen-
erally in secret . The Masons of Rome struck
a medal, in 1746, in honor of Martin Folkes ;
and the author of Anti Saint-Nicaise says
that there was a Grand Lodge at Naples in
1756, which was in correspondence with the
Lodges of Germany . Naples, indeed, seems to
have been for a long time the only place where
the Lodges were in any kind of activity . In
1776, Queen Caroline exerted her interest in
behalf of the Order . Smith, writing in 1783
(Use and Abuse, p . 211), says, "At present
most of the Italian nobles and dignified ec-
clesiastics are Freemasons, who hold their
meetings generally in private houses, though
they have established Lodges at Naples, Leg-
horn, Venice, Verona, Turin, Messina, in the
island of Sicily, Genoa, and Modena ."
In 1805 a Supreme Council of the Ancient
and Accepted Rite was established at Milan
by Count de Grasse-Tilly, and Prince Eugene
accepted the offices of Grand Commander of
the Council and Grand Master of the Grand
Orient .
When, by the defeat of Napoleon in 1814,
the liberal policy of France was withdrawn
from Italy, to be again substituted by the ig-
norance of the Bourbon dynasty and the big-
otry of the Roman Church, Italian Masonry
ceased any longer to have an existence nor did
it revive until 1860 . But the centralization of
J . The tenth letter in the English alpha-
bet . It is frequently and interchangeably
used with I, and written in Hebrew as Yod ('),
with the numerical value of 10, and having
reference to the Supreme .
JaaborouHammaim .
aqua transibunt .) A word of covered signifi-
cancy in the Fifteenth Degree of the A . A .
Scottish Rite . It also has reference to the
L . D . P . 	(See Liber . )
Jabescheh . 	(Heb ., 1Vr, Earth .) 	Also
written Jebschah . (See L .N . .R . .L .)
Jabulum . 	A corrupted word used in two
of the degrees of the A . A . Scottish Rite, the
Thirteenth and Seventeenth . The true word
J
JACOBINS 	359
Italy, and the political movements that led to
it, restored Italy to freedom and intelligence,
and Freemasonry had again found, even be-
neath the shadow of the Vatican, a congenial
soil .
A Lodge was established at Turin in 1859,
and a Grand Lodge in 1861 . A Grand Orient
was subsequently established by Garibaldi,
who adopted the system of the Scottish Rite .
A Supreme Council was also formed at Naples .
Internal dissensions, however, unfortunately
took place . The Grand Orient was removed
from Turin to Florence, when many resigna-
tions took place, and a recusant body was
formed . But peace at length prevailed, and
at a Constituent Assembly held at Rome on
April 28, 1873, "the fundamental bases of
Italian Masonic Fraternity " were adopted ;
and "the Grand Orient of Italy" was now in
successful operation . There was also a Su-
preme Council of the Scottish Rite .
Itratics, Order of . 	A society of adepts,
engaged in the search for the Universal Med-
icine ; is now extinct . Mentioned by Fustier .
(Inveni Verbum in Ore
Leon-i8 .) 	Initial letters of significant words
used in the Thirteenth Degree, A . A . Scottish
Rite . They have reference to the recovery of
the key of the Sacred Ark, which contains cer-
tain treasures . The Ark and its key having
been lost in the forest during a battle which
occurred when the Jews were journeying
through the wilderness, the key was found in
the mouth of a lion, who dropped it upon the
ground on the approach of the Israelites .
Much symbolical teaching is deduced from the
historical myth .
Ivory Key . 	The symbolic jewel of the
Fourth Degree, A . A . Scottish Rite . On the
wards of the key is the Hebrew letter zain .
Izabud . 	A corruption of Zabud, which
see .
Izads . 	The twenty-eight creations of the
beneficent deity Ormudz, or Auramazda, in
the Persian religious system .
and its meaning, however, are disclosed to
the initiate .
Jachin . 	Hence called by Dudley and
some other writers, who reject the ponits,
ichin . It is the name of the right-hand pillar
facing eastward (i . e ., on the south), that stood
at the porch of King Solomon's Temple . It is
derived from two Hebrew words 1'
establish . , '	"God," and I'D', iachin, "will eIt
signifies, therefore, "God will establish," and
is often called "the pillar of establishment ."
Jachinal . A Gallic corruption of Shekinah,
to be found only in the French Cahiers of the
high degrees .
Jacobins . 	A political sect that sprang up

360 	JACOB'S
in the beginning of the French Revolution,
and which gave origin to the Jacobin clubs, so
well known as having been the places where
the leaders of the Revolution concocted their
plans for the abolition of the monarchy and
the aristocracy . Lieber says that it is a most
surprising phenomenon that "so large a body
of men could be found uniting rare energy
with execrable vice, political madness, and
outrageous cruelty, committed always in the
name of virtue ." Barruel, in his Histoire de
Jacobinisme, and Robison, in his Proofs of a
Conspiracy, both endeavor to prove that there
was a coalition of the revolutionary con-
spirators with the Illuminati and the Free-
masons which formed the Jacobin clubs, those
bodies being, as they contend, only Masonic
Lodges in disguise . 	The falsity of these
charges will be evident to anyone who reads
the history of French Masonry during the
Revolution, and more especially during that
part of the period known as the "Reign of
Terror," when the Jacobin clubs were in most
vigor . 	The Grand Orient, in 1788, declared
that a politico-Masonic work, entitled Les
Jesuites chasses de la Magonnerie et leer Poi-
gnard brisi par les Masons, was the production
of a perverse mind, prepared as a poison for
the destruction of Masonry, and ordered it
to be burned . During the Revolution, the
Grand Orient suspended its labors, and the
Lodges in France were dissolved ; and in
1793, the Duke of Orleans, the head of the
Jacobins, who was also, unfortunately, Grand
Master of the French Masons, resigned the
latter position, assigning as a reason that he
did not believe that there should be any mys-
tery nor any secret society in a republic . It is
evident that the Freemasons, as an Order,
held themselves aloof from the political con-
tests of that period .
Jacob's 	Ladder . 	The introduction of
Jacob's ladder into the symbolism of Specu-
lative Masonry is to be traced to the vision of
Jacob, which is thus substantially recorded in
the twenty-eighth chapter of the Book of Gen-
esis : When Jacob, by the command of his
father Isaac, was journeying toward Padan-
aram, while sleeping one night with the bare
earth for his couch and a stone for his pillow,
he beheld the vision of a ladder, whose foot
rested on the earth and whose top reached to
heaven . Angels were continually ascending
and descending upon it, and promised him the
blessing of a numerous and happy posterity .
When Jacob awoke, he was filled with pious
gratitude and consecrated the spot as the
house of ood .
This ladder, so remarkable in the history of
the Jewish people, finds its analogue in all the
ancient initiations . Whether this is to be at-
tributed simply to a coincidence-a theory
which but few scholars would be willing to
accept-or to the fact that these analogues
were all derived from a common fountain of
sym bolism, or whether, as suggested by Oliver,
the origin of the symbol was lost among the
practises of the Pagan rites, while the symbol
itself was retained, it is, perhaps, impossible
JACOB'S
authoritatively to determine . It is, however
certain that the ladder as a symbol of moral
and intellectual progress existed almost uni-
versally in antiquity, presenting itself either
as a succession of steps of gates, of degrees, or
in some other modified form . The number of
the steps varied ; although the favorite one
appears to have been seven, in reference, ap-
parently, to the mystical character almost
everywhere given to that number .
Thus, in the Persian mysteries of Mithras,
there was a ladder of seven rounds, the pas-
sage through them being symbolical of the
soul's approach to perfection . These rounds
were called gates, and, in allusion to them, the
candidate was made to pass through seven
dark and winding caverns, which process was
called the ascent of the ladder of perfection .
Each of these caverns was the representative
of a world, or state of existence through which
the soul was supposed to pass in its progress
from the first world to the last, or the world
of truth . Each round of the ladder was said
to be of metal of increasing purity, and was
dignified also with the name of its protecting
planet . Some idea of the construction of this
symbolic ladder may be obtained from the fol-
lowing table :
In the mysteries of Brahma we find the
same reference to the ladder of seven steps .
The names of these were not different, and
there was the same allusion to the symbol of
the universe . The seven steps were emblem-
atical of the seven worlds which constituted
the Indian universe . The lowest was the
Earth ; the second, the World of Preexist-
ence ; 	the third, Heaven ; the fourth, the
Middle World, or intermediate region be-
tween the lower and upper worlds ; the fifth,
the World of Births, in which souls are again
born ; the sixth, the Mansion of the Blessed ;
and the seventh, or topmost round, the Sphere
of Truth, and the abode of Brahma . Dr .
Oliver thinks that in the Scandinavian mys-
teries the tree Yggrasil was the representative
of the mystical ladder . But although the as-
cent of the tree, like the ascent of the ladder,
was a change from a lower to a higher sphere-
from time to eternity, and from death to life-
yet the unimaginative genius of the North
seems to have shorn the symbolism of many of
its more salient features .
Among the Kabbalists, the ladder was rep-
resented by the ten Sephiroths, which, com-
mencing from the bottom, were the Kingdom,
Foundation, Splendor, Firmness, Beaut~,
Justice, Mercy, Intelligence, Wisdom and the
Crown, by which we arrive at the En Soph,
or the infinite .
In the higher Masonry we find the ladder of
Kadosh, which consists of seven steps, thus
7 Gold, 	Sun, 	Truth . 	[Blessed .
6 Silver, 	Moon, 	Mansion of the
5 Iron, 	Mars, 	World of Births .
4 Tin, 	Jupiter, 	Middle World .
3 Copper, 	Venus, 	Heaven . 	[ence .
2 Quicksilver, Mercury, 	World of Preexist-
1 Lead, 	Saturn, 	First World .

JACOB'S
commencing 	from 	the 	bottom : 	Justice,
Equity, Kindness, Good Faith, Labor, Pa-
tience, and Intelligence . The arrangement of
these steps, for which we are indebted to mod-
ern ritualism, does not seem to be perfect ; but
yet the idea of intellectual progress to perfec-
tion is carried out by making the topmost
round represent Wisdom or Understanding .
The Masonic ladder which is presented in
the symbolism of the First Degree ought really
to consist of seven steps, which thus ascend :
Temperance, Fortitude, Prudence, Justice,
Faith, Hope, and Charity ; but the earliest
examples of it present it only with three, re-
ferring to the three theological virtues whence
it is called the theological ladder . It seems
therefore, to have been settled by general
usage that the Masonic ladder has but three
steps .
As a symbol of progress, Jacob's ladder was
early recognized . Picus of Mirandola, who
wrote in the sixteenth century, in his oration,
"De Hominis Dignitate," says that Jacob's
ladder is a symbol of the progressive scale of
intellectual communication betwixt earth and
heaven ; and upon the ladder, as it were, step
by step, man is permitted with the angels to
ascend and descend until the mind finds
blissful and complete repose in the bosom of
divinity . The highest step he defines to be
theology, or the study and contemplation of
the Deity in his own abstract and exalted
nature .
Other interpretations have, however, been
given to it . The Jewish writers differ very
much in their expositions of it . Thus, a writer
of one of the Midrashes or Commentaries
finding that the Hebrew words for Ladder and
Sinai have each the same numerical value of
letters, expounds the ladder as typifying the
giving of the law on that mount . Aben Ezra
thought that it was a symbol of the human
mind, and that the angels represented the
sublime meditations of man . Maimonidea
supposed the ladder to symbolize nature in its
operations ; and, citing the authority of a
Midrash which gives to it four steps, says that
they represent the four elements ; the two
heavier, earth and water, descending by their
specific gravity, and the two lighter, fire and
air, ascending from the same cause . Abar-
banel, assuming the Talmudic theory that
Luz, where Jacob slept, was Mount Moriah,
supposes that the ladder, resting on the spot
which afterward became the holy of holies '
was a prophetic symbol of the building of the
Temple . And, lastly, Raphael interprets the
ladder, and the ascent and the descent of the
angels, as the prayers of man and the answer-
ing inspiration of God . Fludd, the Hermetic
philosopher, in his 	Philosophia 	Mosaica
(1638), calls the ladder the symbol of the triple
world, moral, physical, and intellectual ; and
Nicolai says that the ladder with three steps
was, among the Rosicrucian Freemasons in
the seventeenth century, a symbol of the
knowledge of nature . Finally, Krause says,
in his drei altesten Kunsturkunden (ii ., 481),
that a Brother Keher of Edinburgh, whom he
JACOB'S 	361
describes as a skilful and truthful Mason, had
in 1802 assured the members of a Lodge at
Altenberg that originally only one Scottish
degree existed whose object was the restora-
tion of James h . to the throne of England, and
that of that restoration Jacob's ladder had
been adopted by them as a symbol . Of this
fact he further said that an authentic narra-
tive was contained in the Archives of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland . Notwithstanding
Lawrie's silence on the subject, Krause is in-
clined to believe the story, nor is it in all its
parts altogether without probability . It is
more than likely that the Chevalier Ramsay,
who was a warm adherent of the Stuarts,
transferred the symbol of the mystical ladder
from the Mithraic mysteries, with which he
was very familiar, into his Scottish degrees,
and that thus it became a part of the symbol-
ism of the Kadosh system . In some of the
political Lodges instituted under the influence
of the Stuarts to assist in the restoration of
their house, the philosophical interpretation
of the symbol may have been perverted to a
political meaning, and to these Lodges it is to
be supposed that Keher alluded ; but that the
Grand Lodge of Scotland had made any offi-
cial recognition of the fact is not to be be-
lieved . Lawrie's silence seems to be conclu-
sive .
In the Ancient Craft degrees of the York
Rite, Jacob's ladder was not an original sym-
bol . It is said to have been introduced by
Dunckerley when he reformed the lectures .
This is confirmed by the fact that it is not
mentioned in any of the early rituals of the
last century, nor even by Hutchinson, who
had an excellent opportunity of doing so in his
lecture on the Nature of the Lode, where he
speaks of the covering of the Loge, but says
nothing of the means of reaching it, which he
would have done, had he been acquainted
with the ladder as a symbol . Its first appear-
ance is in a Tracing Board, on which the date
of 1776 is inscribed, which very well agrees
with the date of Dunckerley's improvements .
In this Tracing Board, the ladder has but
three rounds ; a change from the old seven-
stepped ladder of the mysteries ; which how-
ever, Preston corrected when he described it
as having many rounds, but three principal
ones .
As to the modern Masonic symbolism of the
ladder, it is, as I have already said, a symbol
of progress such as it is in all the old initia-
tions . Its three principal rounds, representing
Faith, Hope, and Charity, present us with
the means of advancing from earth to heaven,
from death to life-from the mortal to immor-
tality . Hence its foot is placed on the ground
floor of the Lodge, which is typical of the
world, and its top rests on the covering of the
Lodge, which is symbolic of heaven .
In the Prestonian lecture, which was elab-
orated out of Dunckerle 's system, the ladder
is said to rest on the Holy Bible, and to reach
to the heavens . This symbolism is thus ex-
plained
"By the doctrines contained in the Holy

362 	JACQUES
Bible we are taught to believe in the Divine
dispensation 	of Providence, 	which belief
strengthens our Faith, and enables us to as-
cend the first step .
"That Faith naturally creates in us a Hope
of becoming partakers of some of the blessed
promises therein recorded, which Hope en-
ables us to ascend the second step .
"But the third and last being Charity com-
prehends the whole, and he who is possessed
of this virtue in its ample sense, is said to have
arrived at the summit of his profession, or,
more metaphorically, into an ethereal mansion
veiled from the mortal eye by the starry fir-
mament ."
In the modern lectures, the language is
materially changed, but the idea and the
symbolism are retained unaltered .
The delineation of the ladder with three
steps only on the Tracing Board of 	1776,
which is a small one, may be attributed to
notions of convenience . But the Masonic
ladder should properly have seven steps,
which represent the four cardinal and the
three theological virtues .
Jacques de Molay . 	See Molay, James de .
Jafuhar . 	The second king in the Scan-
dinavian mysteries . The s yn onym for Thor .
Jah . 	In Hebrew, 'T' . Maimonides calls it
the "two-lettered name," and derives it from
the Tetragrammaton, of which he says it is
an abbreviation . 	Others have denied this,
and assert that Jah is a name independent of
Jehovah, but expressing the same idea of the
Divine Essence . 	It is uniformly translated in
the authorized version of the Bible by the
word Loin, being thus considered as synony-
mous with Jehovah, except in Psalm lxviu . 4,
where the original word is preserved : "Extol
him that rideth upon the heavens by his name
JAH," upon which the Targum comment is :
"Extol him who sitteth on the throne of flory
in the ninth heaven ; YAH is his name .' It
seems, also, to have been well known to the
Gentile nations as the triliteral name of God ;
for, although biliteral amon g the Hebrews, it
assumed among the Greeks the triliteral form,
as IAa . 	Macrobius, in his Saturnalia, says
that this was the sacred name of the Supreme
Deit y ; and the Clarian Oracle being asked
which of the gods was Jao, replied, "The in-
itiated are bound to conceal the mysterious
secrets . Learn thou that IAtt, is the Great God
Supreme who ruleth over all ." 	(See Jehovah .)
Jaheb . 	(Heb ., 1'1', concedens .) A sacred
name used in the Thirteenth Degree of the
A . A . Scottish Rite .
Jaina Cross . Used by several orders, and
found in the abbeys of Great Britain
and on the monuments of India .
Its signifieations are many . This
cross was adopted by the Jainas, a
heterodox sect of the Hindus, who
dissent from Brahmanism and deny the Vedas,
and whose adherents are found in every prov-
ince of Upper Hindustan . They are wealthy
and influential, and form an im po rtant divi-
sion of the population of India . This symbol is
also known as the Fylfot or Swastika . 	It is a
JAPANESE
religious s y mbol mentioned by Weaver in his
Funeral Monuments, by Dr . H . Schliemann as
having been found in the presumed ruins of
Troy, by De Rossi and others in the Cata-
combs of Christian Rome, and there termed
the Crux dissimulata . It has been found on
almost every enduring monument on the
globe, of all ages, and in both hemispheres .
Jainas . 	See Jaina Cross .
Jamblichus . 	It is strange that the old
Masons, when inventing their legend, which
gave so prominent a place to Pythagoras as
"an ancient friend and brother," should have
entirely forgotten his biographer, Jamblichus,
whose claims to their esteem and veneration
are much greater than those of the Samian
sa g e . Jamblichus was a Neoplatonic philos-
opher, who was born at Chalcis, in Calo, Syria,
and flourished in the fourth century . 	He was
a pupil of Porphyry, and was deeply versed in
the philoso p hic systems of Plato and Pythago-
ras, and, like the latter, had studied the mys-
tical theology of the Egyptians and Chaldeans
whose Divine origin and truth he attempts to
vindicate . He maintained that man, through
theurgic rites and ceremonies, might com-
mune with the Deity ; and hence he attached
great importance to initiation as the means
of inculcating truth . 	He carried his supersti-
tious veneration for numbers and numerical
formula to a far greater extent than did the
school of Pythagoras ; so that all the prin-
ciples of his philosophy can be represented by
numbers .
Thus, he taught that one, or the monad,
was the principle of all unity as well as diver-
sity ; the duad, or two was the intellect ;
three the soul ; four, the principle of uni-
versal harmony ; eight, the source of motion ;
nine, perfection • and ten, the result of all the
emanations of the to en . 	It will thus be seen
that Jamblichus while ado p ting the general
theory of numbers that distinguished the
Pythagorean school, differed very materially
in his explanations . He wrote many philo-
sophical works on the basis of these principles,
and was the author of a Life of Pythagoras,
and a Treatise of the Mysteries . 	Of all the
ancient philosophers, his system assimilates
him most-if not in its details, at least in its
spirit-to the mystical and symbolic character
of the Masonic philoso p hy .
James H . and III. of Scotland . 	See
Stuart Masonry .
Jaminim or laminim . 	(Heb ., water .)
(See L% N .- .R .- .1 .- .)
Janitor . A door-keeper . 	The word Sen-
tinel, which in a Royal Arch Chapter is the
proper equivalent of the Tiler in a Lodge, is in
some jurisdictions replaced by the word Jan-
itor . 	There is no good authority for the
usage .
Japan . 	Freemasonry was introduced in
Japan by the establishment at Yokohama, in
1865, of a Lodge by the Grand Lodge of Eng-
land . 	A Masonic hall was built at Yoko-
hama in 1869 .
Japanese Faith . 	See Kofiki ; also Ni-
hongi .

JAPIIET
Japhet . 	Heb ., re` . 	The eldest son of
Noah . It is said that the first ark-the ark
of safety, the archetype of the tabernacle-
was constructed by Shem, Ham, and Japhet
under the superintendence of Noah . Hence
these are significant words in the Royal Arch
Degree .
dasher, 	Book of . 	(Heb ., Sepher ha-
yashar, The Book of the Upright .) One of the
lost books of the ancient Hebrews, which is
q uoted twice (Josh . x . 13 ; 2 Sam . i . 18) . A
Hebrew minstrelsy, recording the warlike
deeds of the national heroes, and singing the
praises of eminent or celebrated men . An
original is said to be in the library at Samar-
kand .
Jasper . 	Heb ., TV' . A precious stone of a
dullish green color, which was the last of the
twelve inserted in the high priest's breast-
p late, according to the authorized version ;
but the Vul g ate translation more correctly
makes it the third stone of the second row . It
represented the tribe of Zebulun .
Jebusite . 	See Oman .
Jedadiah . 	A special name given to King
Solomon at his birth . It signifies "beloved of
God ."
Jehoshaphat . East of Jerusalem, be-
tween Mount Zion and the Mount of Olives,
lies the Valley of Jehoshaphat . In the most
recent rituals this word has lost its signifi-
cance, but in the older ones it played an im-
portant part . There was in reality no such
valley in ancient Judea, nor is there an y men-
tion of it in Scripture, except once by the
prophet Joel . The name is altogether mod-
ern . But, as the Hebrew means the judgment
of God, and as the prophecy of Joel declared
that God would there judge the heathen for
their deeds against the Israelites, it came at
last to be believed by the Jews, which belief
is shared by the Mohammedans, that the Val-
ley of Jehoshaphat is to be the place of the last
judgment . Hence it was invested with a pe-
culiar degree of sanctity as a holy place . The
idea was borrowed by the Masons of the last
century, who considered it as the symbol of
holy ground . Thus, in the earliest rituals we
find this language :
"Where does the Lodge stand?"
"Upon holy ground, or the highest hill or
lowest vale, or in the Valley of Jehoshaphat,
or any other secret place ."
This reference to the Valley of Jehoshaphat
as the symbol of the ground floor of the Lodge
was in this country retained until a very re-
cent period ; and the expression which alludes
to it in the ritual of the Second Degree has only
within a few years past been abandoned .
Hutchinson referred to this symbolism, when
he said that the Spiritual Lodge was placed in
the Valley of Jehoshaphat to imply that the
principles of Masonry are derived from the
knowledge of God, and are established in the
judgments of the Lord .
Jehovah . 	JEHOVAH is, of all the signif-
icant words of Masonry, by far the most im-
portant . Reghellini very properly calls it
"the basis of our dogma and of our mysteries ."
JEHO"VAU 	363
In Hebrew it consists of four letters, 	and
hence is called the Tetragrammaton, or four-
lettered name ; and because it was forbidden
to a Jew, as it is to a Mason, to p ronounce it,
it is also called the Ineffable or Unpronounce-
able name . For its history we must refer to
the sixth chapter of Exodus (verses 2, 3) .
When Moses returned discouraged from his
first visit to Pharaoh, and complained to the
Lord that the only result of his mission had
been to incense the Egyptian king, and to ex-
cite him to the exaction of greater burdens
from the oppressed Israelites, God encour-
aged the patriarch by the promise of the great
wonders which he would perform in behalf of
his people, and confirmed the promise by im-
parting to him that sublime name by which
he had not hitherto been known : "And God,"
says the sacred writer, "spake unto Moses,
and said unto him, I am Jehovah : and I ap-
peared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto
Jacob as El Shaddai, but by my name JEHo-
vAn was I not known unto them ."
This Ineffable name is derived from the
substantive verb hayah, to be ; and com-
bining, as it does, in its formation the present,
past, and future significations of the verb, it is
considered as designating God in his immut-
able and eternal existence . This idea is car-
ried by the Rabbis to such an extent, that
Menasseh Ben Israel says that its four letters
may be so arranged by permutations as to
form twelve words, every one of which is a
modification of the verb to be, and hence it is
called the nomen substantive vel essentim, the
name of his substance or existence .
The first thing that attracts our attention in
the investigation of this name is the ancient
regulation, still existing, by which it was made
unlawful to pronounce it . 	This, p erhaps,
originally arose from a wish to conceal it from
the surrounding heathen nations, so that they
might not desecrate it by ap p lying it to their
idols . Whatever may have been the reason,
the rule was imperative among the Jews .
The Talmud, in one of its treatises, the "San-
hedrim," which treats of the question, Who of
the Israelites shall have future life and who
shall not? says : "Even he who thinks the
name of God with its true letters forfeits his
future life ." 	Abraham Ben David Halevi,
when discussing the names of God, says :
"But the name fl T' we axe not allowed to
pronounce . In its original meaning it is con-
ferred upon no other being, and therefore we
abstain from giving any explanation of it ."
We learn from Jerome, Origen, and Eusebius
that in their time the Jews wrote the name in
their copies of the Bible in Samaritan instead
of Hebrew letters, in order to veil it from the
inspection of the profane . Capellus says that
the rule that the holy name was not to be pro-
nounced was derived from a tradition, based
on a passage in Leviticus (xxiv . 16), which
says that he who blasphemeth the name of
Jehovah shall be put to death ; and he trans-
lates this passage, "whosoever shall pronounce
the name Jehovah shall suffer death," be-
cause the word nokeb, here translated "to

364 	JEHOVAH
blaspheme," means also "to pronounce dis-
tinctly, to call by name ." Another reason for
the rule is to be found in a rabbinical misin-
terpretation of a passage in Exodus .
In the third chapter of that book, when
Moses asks of God what is His name He re-
plies "I AM THAT I Am ; and He said, Thus
shalt thou say unto the children of Israel,
I AM hath sent me unto you," and he adds,
"this is my name forever ." Now, the Hebrew
word I AM is 1~1K, Ehyeh . But as Mendels-
sohn has correctly observed, there is no es-
sential difference between M' MX, in the sixth
chapter and 11'1' in the third, the former being
the first person singular, and the latter the
third person of the same verb (the future used
in the present sense of the verb to be) ; and
hence what was said of the name Ehyeh was
applied by the Rabbis to the name Jehovah .
But of Ehyeh God had said, "this is my name
forever ." Now the word forever is represented
in the original by Ohy' l'olam ; but the Rab-
bis, says Capellus, by the change of a single
letter, made l'olam, forever read as if it
had been written l'alam which means "to be
concealed," and hence the passage was trans-
lated "this is my name to be concealed " in-
stead of "this is my name forever ." An~ thus
Josephus, in writing upon this subject, uses
the following expressions : "Whereupon God
declared to Moses His holy name, which had
never been discovered to men before ; con-
cerning which it is not lawful for me to say
any more ." In obedience to this law, when-
ever the word Jehovah occurs to a Jew in
reading, he abstains from pronouncing it, and
substitutes in its place the word 1 ]`lis, Adonai .
Thus, instead of saying "holiness to Jehovah,"
as it is in the original, he would say "holiness
to Adonai ." And this same reverential reti-
cence has been preserved by our translators in
the authorized version, who, wherever Jeho-
vah occurs, have, with a few exceptions, trans-
lated it by the word "Lord," the very passage
just quoted, being rendered "holiness to the
Lord ."
Maimonides tells us that the knowledge of
this word was confined to the hachamin or
wise men, who communicated its true pro-
nunciation and the mysteries connected with
it only on the Sabbath day, to such of their
disciples as were found worthy ; but how it
was to be sounded, or with what vocal sounds
its four letters were to be uttered, was utterly
unknown to the people . Once a year, namely,
on the day of atonement, the holy name was
pronounced with the sound of its letters and
with the utmost veneration by the high priest
in the Sanctuary. The last priest who pro-
nounced it, says Rabbi Bechai, was Simeon
the Just, and his successors used in blessing
only the twelve-lettered name . After the de-
struction of the city and Temple by Ves-
pasian, the pronunciation of it ceased, for it
was not lawful to pronounce it anywhere ex-
cept in the Temple at Jerusalem, and thus the
true and genuine pronunciation of the name
was entirely lost to the Jewish people . Nor is
it now known how it was originally pro-
JEHOVAH
nounced . 	The Greeks called it JAO ; the
Romans, JovA ; the Samaritans always pro-
nounced it JAHVE .
The task is difficult to make one unac-
quainted with the peculiarities of the Hebrew
language comprehend how the pronunciation
of a word whose letters are preserved can be
wholly lost . It may, however, be attempted .
The Hebrew alphabet consists entirely of con-
sonants . The vowel sounds were originally
supplied by the reader while reading, he being
previously made acquainted with the correct
pronunciation of each word ; and if he did not
possess this knowledge, the letters before him
could not supply it, and he was, of course, un-
able to pronounce the word . Every Hebrew,
however, knew from practise the vocal sounds
with which the consonants were pronounced
in the different words, in the same manner
as every English reader knows the different
sounds of a in hat, hate, far, was, and that knt
is pronounced knight . The words "God save
the republic," written in the Hebrew method,
would appear thus : "Gd sv th rpblc ." Now,
this incommunicable name of God consists of
four letters, Yod, He, Vau, and He, equiva-
lent in English to the combination JHVH . It
is evident that these four letters cannot, in
our language, be pronounced, unless at least
two vowels be supplied . Neither can they in
Hebrew . 	In other words the vowels were
known to the Jew, because he heard the words
continually pronounced, just as we know that
Mr . stands for Mister, because we continually
hear this combination so pronounced . But the
name of God, of which these four letters are
symbols, was never pronounced, but another
word, Adonai, substituted for it ; and hence,
as the letters themselves have no vocal power,
the Jew, not knowing the implied vowels, was
unable to supply them, and thus the pronun-
ciation of the word was in time entirely lost .
Hence some of the most learned of the Jew-
ish writers even doubt whether Jehovah is the
true pronunciation, and say that the recovery
of the name is one of the mysteries that will be
revealed only at the coming of the Messiah .
They attribute the loss to the fact that the
Masoretic or vowel points belonging to an-
other word were applied to the sacred name,
whereby in time a confusion occurred in its
vocalization .
In the Ineffable degrees of the Scottish Rite,
there is a tradition that the pronunciation
varied among the patriarchs in different ages .
Methuselah, Lamech, and Noah pronounced
it Juha ; Shem, Arphaxad, Selah Heber, and
Peleg pronounced it Jeva ; Reu, S~erug, Nahor,
Terah, Abraham, Isaac, and Judah, called it
Jova ; by Hezrom and Ram it was pronounced
Jevo ; by Aminadab and Nasshon, Jevah ; by
Salmon, Boaz, and Obed, Johe ; by Jesse and
David, Jehovah . 	And they imply that none of
these was the right pronunciation, which was
only in the possession of Enoch, Jacob, and
Moses, whose names are therefore, not men-
tioned in this list . In all these words it must
be noticed that the J is to be pronounced as
Y, the a as in father, and the e as a in fate .

JEHOVAH
Thus, Je-ho-vah would be pronounced Yay-
ho-vah .
The Jews believed that this holy name,
which they held in the highest veneration, was
possessed of unbounded powers . 	"He who
pronounces it," said they, "shakes heaven and
earth, and inspires the very angels with as-
tonishment and terror . There is a sovereign
authority in this name : it governs the world
by its power . The other names and surnames
of the Deity are ranged about it like officers
and soldiers about their sovereigns and gen-
erals : from this king-name they receive their
orders, and obey ."
It was called the Shem hamphorash, the
explanatory or declaratory name, because it
alone, of all the Divine names, distinctly ex-
plains or declares what is the true essence of
the Deity .
Among the Essenes 	this sacred name,
which was never uttered aloud, but always in
a whisper, was one of the mysteries of their
initiation, which candidates were bound by a
solemn oath never to divulge .
It is reported to have been, under a modified
form, a password in the Egyptian mysteries,
and none, says Schiller, dare enter the temple
of Serapis who did not bear on his breast or
forehead the name Jao or Je-ha-ho ; a name
almost equivalent in sound to that of Jehovah,
and probably of identical import ; and no name
was uttered in Egypt with more reverence .
The Rabbis asserted that it was engraved
on the rod of Moses, and enabled him to per-
form all his miracles . Indeed, the Talmud says
that it was by the utterance of this awful
name, and not by a club, that he slew the
Egyptian ; although it fails to tell us how he
got at that time his knowledge of it .
That scurrilous book of the Jews of the Mid-
dle Ages, called the Toldoth Jeshu, attributes
all the wonderful works of Jesus Christ to the
potency of this incommunicable name, which
he is said to have abstracted from the Temple,
and worn about him . But it would be tedious
and unprofitable to relate all the supersti-
tious myths that have been invented about
this name .
And now as to the grammatical significa-
tion of this important word . Gesenius (The-
saur ., ii ., 577) thinks-and many modern
scholars agree with him-that the word is the
future form of the Hiphil conjugation of the
verb to be, pronounced Yavah, and therefore
that it denotes "He who made to exist, called
into existence," that is, the Creator . 	The
more generally accepted definition of the name
is, that it expresses the eternal and unchange-
able existence of God in respect to the past,
the present, and the future . The word 111' is
derived from the substantive verb 71"1, hayah,
to be, and in its four letters combines those of
the past, present and future of the verb . The
letter ' in the begm' ning, says Buxtorf (de
Nomine, v .), is a characteristic of the future ;
the 1 in the middle, of the participle or present
time ; and the 1 at the end, of the past . Thus,
out of 111` we get 1'1, he was ; '111, he is ;
and 	he will be . 	Hence, among other
JEHOVAH 	365
titles it received that of nomen essentice, be-
cause it shows the essential nature of God's
eternal existence . 	The other names of God
define His power, wisdom, goodness, and other
qualities ; but this alone defines His existence .
It has been a controverted point whether
this name was made known for the first time
to Moses, or whether the patriarchs had been
previously acquainted with it . The gener-
ally recognized opinion now is, and the rec-
ords of Genesis and Exodus sustain it, that the
name was known to the patriarchs, but not in
its essential meaning, into which Moses was
the first to be initiated . In the language of
Aben Ezra, "Certainly the name was already
known to the patriarchs, but only as an un-
comprehended and unmeaning noun, not as a
descriptive, appellative one, indicative of the
attributes and qualities of the Deity ." "It is
manifest," says Kallisch 	(Comm . on Ex .),
"that Moses, in being initiated into the holy
and comprehensive name of the Deity, ob-
tains a superiority over the patriarchs, who,
although perhaps from the beginning more be-
lieving than the long-wavering Moses, lived
more in the sphere of innocent, childlike obe-
dience than of manly, spiritual enlighten-
ment ." This, too, is the Masonic doctrine . In
Freemasonry the Holy Name is the repre-
sentative of the Word, which is itself the sym-
bol of the nature of God . To know the Word
is to know the true nature and essence of the
Grand Architect .
When the pronunciation of the name was
first interdicted to the people is not certainly
known . Leusden says it was a rabbinical pro-
hibition, and was probably made at the sec-
ond Temple . 	The statement of the Rabbi
Bechai, already cited, that the word was pro-
nounced f or the last time by Simeon, before the
spoliation by the Roman emperor Vespasian,
would seem to indicate that it was known at
the second Temple, although its utterance was
forbidden, which would coincide with the Ma-
sonic tradition that it was discovered while the
foundations of the second Temple were being
laid . But the general opinion is, that the pro-
hibition commenced in the time of Moses the
rabbinical writers tracing it to the law o? Le-
viticus, already cited . This, too, is the theory
of Masonry, which also preserves a tradition
that the prohibition would have been removed
at the first Temple, had not a well-known oc-
currence prevented it . But this is not to be
viewed as an historic statement, but only as a
medium of creating a symbol .
The Jews had four symbols by which they
expressed this Ineffable name of God : the
first and most common was two Yods, with a
Sheva and the point Kametz underneath,
thus, s,t ; the second was three points in a
radiated form like a diadem thus, \l/, to rep-
resent, in all probability, the sovereignty of
God ; the third was a Yod within an equilat-
eral triangle, which the Kabbalists explained
as a ray of light, whose luster was too tran-
scendent to be contemplated by human eyes ;
and the fourth was the letter V, which is the
initial letter of Shadai, "the Almighty," and

366 	JEHOVAH
was the symbol usually placed u po n their
phylacteries . Buxtorf mentions a fifth method
which was by three Yods, with a Kametz un-
derneath 1 . 9 , enclosed in a circle .
In Freemasonry, the equilateral triangle,
called the delta, with or without a Yod in the
center, the Yod alone, and the letter G, are
recognized as symbols of the sacred and Inef-
fable name .
The history of the introduction of this
word into the ritualism of Freemasonry would
be highly interesting, were it not so obscure .
Being in almost all respects an esoteric symbol,
nearly all that we know of its Masonic rela-
tions is derived from tradition ; and as to
written records on the subject, we are com-
pelled, in g eneral, to de p end on mere intima-
tions or allusions, which are not always dis-
tinct in their meaning . In Masonry, as in the
Hebrew mysteries, it was under the different
appellations of the Word, the True Word, or
the Lost Word, the symbol of the knowledge
of Divine Truth, or the true nature of God .
That this name, in its mystical use, was not
unknown to the Medieval Freemasons there
can be no doubt . Many of their architectural
emblems show that they possessed this knowl-
edge . Nor can there be any more doubt that
through them it came to their successors, the
Freemasons of the beginning of the eighteenth
century . No one can read the Defence of
Masonry, written in 1730, without being con-
vinced that the author (probably Martin
Clare, q . v .) was well acquainted with this
name ; although he is, of course, careful to
make no very distinct reference to it, except
in one instance . "The occasion," he says,
"of the brethren searching so diligently for
their Master was, it seems, to receive from him
the secret Word of Masonry, which should be
delivered down to their fraternity in after
ages ." 	(Constitutions, 1738, p . 225 .)
It is now conceded, from indisputable evi-
dence, that the holy name was, in the earlier
years, and, indeed, up to the middle of the last
century attached to the Third Degree, and
then called the Master's Word . On some early
tracing boards of the Third Degree among the
emblems displayed is a coffin, on which is in-
scribed, in capital letters, the word JEHO-
VAH . Hutchinson, who wrote in 1774
makes no reference whatever to the Royal
Arch, although that system had, by that time,
been partially established in England ; but
in his lectures to Master Masons and on the
Third Degree refers to "the mystic word,
the Tetragrammaton ." 	(Lecture X ., p . 180 .)
Oliver tells us distinctly that it was the Mas-
ter's Word until Dunckerley took it out of the
degree and transferred it to the Royal Arch .
That it was so on the Continent we have the
unmistakable testimony of Guiliemain de St .
Victor, who says, in his Adonhiramite Masonry
(p . 90), that Solomon placed a medal on the
tomb of Hiram, "on which was engraved Je-
hova, the old Master's Word, and which sig-
nifies the Supreme Being ."
So far, then, these facts appear to be estab-
lished : that this Ineffable name was known to
JEHOVAH
the Operative Freemasons of the Middle Ages ;
that it was derived from them by the S pec u-
lative Masons, who, in 1717, revived the
Order in England ; that they knew it as Mas-
ter Masons ; and that it continued to be the
Master's Word until late in that century,
when it was removed by Dunckerley into the
Royal Arch .
Although there is, p erhaps, no point in the
esoteric system of Masonr y more clearly es-
tablished than that the Tetragrammaton is
the true omnific word, yet innovations have
been admitted, by which, in some jurisdic-
tions in this country, that word has been
changed into three others, which simply sig-
nify Divine names in other languages, but
have none of the sublime symbolism that be-
longs to the true name of God . It is true
that the General Grand Chapter of the United
States adopted a regulation disapproving of
the innovation of these explanatory words,
and restoring the Tetr agr ammaton- but this
declaration of what might almost to consid-
ered a truism in Masonry has been met with
open opposition or reluctant obedience in
some places .
The Grand Chapter of En gland has fallen
into the same error, and abandoned the teach-
ings of Dunckerley, the founder of the Royal
Arch in that country, as some of the Grand
Chapters in America did those of Webb, who
was the founder of the system here . It is well
therefore, to inquire what was the omnific word
when the Royal Arch system was first in-
vented .
We have the authority of Oliver, who had
the best opportunity of any man in England
of knowing the facts, for saying that Dunck-
erley established the Royal Arch for the mod-
ern Grand Lodge ; that he wisely borrowed
many things from Ramsay and Dermott ; and
that he boldly transplanted the word Jehovah
from the Master's Degree and placed it in his
new system .
Now, what was "THE Woan" of the Royal~~
Arch, as understood by Dunckerley? We
have no difficulty here, for he himself answers
the question . To the first edition of the Laws
and Regulations of the Royal Arch, published
in 1782, there is prefixed an essay on Free-
masonry, which is attributed to Dunckerley .
In this he makes the following remarks :
"It must be observed that the expression
THE Woan is not to be understood as a watch-
word only, after the manner of those annexed
to the several degrees of the Craft ; but also
theologically, as a term, thereby to convey to
the mind some idea of that Grand Being who is
the sole author of our existence ; and to carry
along with it the most solemn veneration for
his sacred Name and Word, as well as the most
clear and perfect elucidation of his power and
attributes that the human mind is capable of
receiving . And this is the light in which the
* But more recent authorities, such as R . F .
Gould (Hilt . of F . M .) and H . Sadler (Life of
Dunckerley), have cast great doubt on these
statements (see Dunckerley) . 	[E . L . H .]

JEHOVAH
Name and Word hath always been considered,
from the remotest ages, amongst us Chris-
tians and the Jews ."
And then, after giving the well-known his-
tory from Josephus of the word which, to re-
move all doubt of what it is Le says is the
"Sheen Ham p horash, or the Unutterable
Name," he adds : "Philo, the learned Jew,
tells us not onl y that the word was lost, but
also the time when, and the reason wh y . But,
to make an end of these unprofitable disputes
among the learned, be it remembered that
they all concur with the Royal Arch Masons
in others much more essential : first, that the
Name or Word is expressive of Sari-ExrsT_
ENCE AND ETERNITY ; and, secondly, that it
can be applicable only to that GREAT BErNo
who WAS and is and WILL BE ."
Notwithstanding this explicit and unmis-
takable declaration of the founder of the Eng-
lish Royal Arch, that the Tetragrammaton is
the omnific word, the present system in Eng-
land has rejected it, and substituted in its
place three other words, the second of which is
wholly unmeaning .
In the American system, as revised by
Thomas Smith Webb, there can be no doubt
that the Tetragrammaton was recognized as
the omnific word . In the Freemasons' Monitor,
p repared by him for monitorial instruction, he
has inserted, among the passages of Scripture
to be read during an exaltation, the following
from Exodus, which is the last in order, and
which anyone at all acquainted with the rit-
ual will at once see is appropriated to the time
of the euresis or discovery of the Word .
"And God spake unto Moses, and said unto
him, I am the Lord, and I appeared unto
Abraham, and unto Isaac, and unto Jacob by
the name of God Almighty, but by my name
JEHOVAH was I not known to them ."
From this it will be evident that Webb rec-
ognized the word Jehovah, and not the three
other words that have since been substituted
for them by some Grand Chapters in America
and which it is probable were originally used
by Webb as merely explanator y or declare,
tory of the Divine nature of the other and
principal word . And this is in accordance with
one of the traditions of the degree, that they
were placed on the substitute ark around the
real word, as a key to explain its signification .
To call anything else but this four-lettered
name an omnific word-an all-creating and
all- p erforming word-either in Masonry or in
Hebrew symbolism, whence Masonry erived
it, is to o p pose all the doctrines of the Tal-
mudists, the Kabbalists, and the Gnostics,
and too repudiate the teachings of every He-
brew scholar from Buxtorf to Gesenius . To
fight the battle against such odds is to secure
defeat . It shows more of boldness than of
discretion . And hence the General Grand
Chapter of the United States has very wisely
restored the word Jehovah to its p roper place .
It is only in the York and in the American
Rites that this error has ever existed . In every
other Rite the Tetragrammaton is recognized
as the true word .
JENA 	367
Jephthah . A Judge of Israel, and the
leader of the Gileadites in their war against
the Ephraimites, which terminated in the
slaughter of so man y of the latter at the
passes of the river Jordan . (See Ephraimites .)
Jephthah's Daughter . 	The First De-
gr ee in the American Order of the Eastern
Star, or Adoptive Rite . It inculcates obedi-
ence . 	Color, blue . 	(See Eastern Star, Order
of the .)
Jericho, Heroine of . 	See Heroine of
Jericho .
Jermyn, Henry . 	Anderson says (Con-
stitutions, 1738, p . 101) that Henry Jermyn
Earl of St . Albans, was Grand Master and
held a General Assembly on the 27th of De-
cember, 1663, at which six regulations (which
he quotes) were made . Roberts, in his edition
of the Old Constitutions printed in 1722, the
earliest printed Masonic book that we have,
refers also to this General Assembly ; the date
of which he, however, makes the 8th of De-
cember . Roberts gives what he calls the Addi-
tional Orders and Constitutions . The Har-
leian MS ., in the British Museum, numbered
1942, which Hughan supposes to have the date
of 1670, and which he has published in his
Old Charges of the British Freemasons (p . 52,
ed . 1872), contains also six "new articles ."
The articles in Roberts's and the Harleian MS .
are identical, but the wording is slightly altered
by Anderson after his usual fashion . Of these
new articles, one of the most important is that
which prescribes that the society of Free-
masons shall thereafter be governed by a
Master and Wardens . Bro . Hughan thinks
that there is no evidence of the statement
that a General Assembly was held in 1663 .
But it would seem that the concurring testi-
mony of Roberts in 1722, and of Anderson in
1738, with the significant fact that the charges
are found in a manuscript written seven years
after, give some plausibility to the statement
that a General Assembly was held at that
time .
Jekson . This word is found in the French
Cahiers of the high degrees . It is undoubt-
edly a corruption of Jacquesson, and this a
mongrel word compounded of the French
Jacques and the English son, and means the
son of James, that is, James II . It refers to
Charles Edward the Pretender, who was the
son of that abdicated and exiled monarch . It
is a significant relic of the system attempted
to be introduced by the adherents of the house
of Stuart, and by which they expected to en-
list Masonry as an instrument to effect the
restoration of the Pretender to the throne of
England . For this purpose they had altered
the legend of the Third Degree, making it
applicable to James II ., who, being the son of
Henrietta Maria, the widow of Charles I ., was
designated as "the widow's son ."
Jena, Congress of . 	Jena is a city of Saxe-
Weimar, in Thuringia . A Masonic Congress
was convoked there in 1763, by the Lodge
of Strict Observance, under the presidency of
Johnson, a Masonic charlatan, whose real
name was Becker . In this Congress the doc-

368 	JERUSALEM
trine was announced that the Freemasons
were the successors of the Knights Templar,
a dogma peculiarly characteristic of the Rite
of Strict Observance . In the year 1764, a
second Congress was convoked by Johnson or
Leucht with the desire of authoritatively
establishing his doctrine of the connection
between Templarism and Masonry . The
empirical character of Johnson was here dis-
covered by the Baron Hund, and he was
denounced, and subsequently punished at
Magdeburg by the public authorities .
Jerusalem . 	The capital of Judea, and
memorable in Masonic history as the place
where was erected the Temple of Solomon . It
is early mentioned in Scripture, and is sup-
posed to be the Salem of which Melchizedek
was king . At the time that the Israelites en-
tered the Promised Land the city was in pos-
session of the Jebusites, from whom, after the
death of Joshua, it was conquered, and after-
ward inhabited by the tribes of Judah and
Benjamin . The Jebusites were not, however,
driven out ; and we learn that David pur-
chased Mount Moriah from Ornan or Arau-
nah the Jebusite as a site for the Temple . It is
only in reference to this Temple that Jerusa-
lem is connected with the legends of Ancient
Craft Masonry . In the degrees of chivalry
it is also important, because it was the city
where the holy places were situated, and for
the possession of which the Crusaders so long
and so bravely contested . It was there, too,
that the Templars and the Hospitalers were
established as Orders of religious and military
knighthood .
Modern Speculative Masonry was intro-
duced into Jerusalem by the establishment of
a Lodge in 1872, the warrant for which, on
the application of Robert Morris and others,
was granted by the Grand Lodge of Canada .
Recently a Lodge has been warranted in
England to meet at Chester, but to be in due
course removed to Jerusalem, named "King
Solomon's Temple," No . 3464 .
Jerusalem, Knight of . 	See Knight of
Jerusalem .
Jerusalem, New . 	The symbolic name of
the Christian church (Rev . xxi . 2-21 ; iii . 12) .
The Apostle John (Rev . xxi .), from the sum-
mit of a high mountain, beheld, in a pictorial
symbol or scenic representation, a city re-
splendent with celestial brightness, which
seemed to descend from the heavens to the
earth . It was stated to be a square of about
400 miles, or 12,000 stadia, equal to about
16,000 miles in circumference-of course, a
mystical number, denoting that the city was
capable of holding almost countless myriads
of inhabitants . 	The New Jerusalem was
beheld, like Jacob's ladder, extending from
earth to heaven . It plays an important part
in the ritual of the Nineteenth Degree, or
Grand Pontiff of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite, where the descent of the New
Jerusalem is a symbol of the descent of the
empire of Light and Truth upon the earth .
Jerusalem, Prince of . 	See Prince of
Jerusalem .
JEWEL
Jerusalem Word . 	In the Grand Mystery
of the Freemasons Discovered of 1724 occurs
the following question and answer :
" Q . Give me the Jerusalem Word .
"A . Giblin ."
The origin of this phrase may perhaps be
thus traced . The theory that after the com-
pletion of the Temple a portion of the work-
men traveled abroad to seek employm ent,
while another portion remained at Jerusa-
lem, was well known to the Fraternity at the
beginning of the last century . It is amply
detailed in that old manuscript known as the
York MS ., which is now lost, but was trans-
lated by Krause, and inserted in his Kunst-
urkunden . 	It may be supposed that this
"Jerusalem Word" was the word which the
Masons used at Jerusalem, while the "Uni-
versal Word," which is given in the next ques-
tion and answer, was the word common to the
Craft everywhere . The Jerusalem Word, as
such, is no longer in use but the Universal
Word is still found in the first Degree .
Jesse . 	A large candlestick, of metal, with
many sconces, hanging from the ceiling, and
symbolically referring to the Branch of Jesse .
Jesuits . 	In the last century the Jesuits
were charged with having an intimate con-
nection with Freemasonry, and the invention
of the degree of Kadosh was even attributed to
those members of the Society who constituted
the College of Clermont . This theory of a
Jesuitical Masonry seems to have originatedd
with the Illuminati who were probably gov-
erned in its promuigation by a desire to de-
preciate the character of all other Masonic
systems in comparison with their own, where
no such priestly interference was permitted .
Barruel scoffs at the idea of such a con-
nection and calls it (Hist . de Ja ., iv ., 287)
"la fable de la Franc-MKonnerie Jesuitique ."
For once he is right . Like oil and water,
the tolerance of Freemasonry and the intoler-
ance of the " Society of Jesus " cannot com-
mingle .
Yet it cannot be denied that, while the
Jesuits have had no part in the construction of
pure Freemasonry, there are reasons for be-
lieving that they took an interest in the in-
vention of some degrees and systems which
were intended to advance their own interests .
But wherever they touched the Institution
they left the trail of the serpent . They sought
to convert its pure philanthropy and tolera-
tion into political intrigue and religious big-
otry . 	Hence it is believed that they had
something to do with the invention of those
degrees, which were intended to aid the exiled
house of Stuart in its efforts to regain the
English throne, because they believed that
would secure the restoration in England of
the Roman Catholic religion . Almost a li-
brary of books has been written on both
sides of this subject in Germany and in
France .
Jetzirah, Book of . 	See Jezirah .
Jewel of an Ancient Grand Master . A
Masonic tradition informs us that the jewel of
an ancient Grand Master at the Temple was

JEWEL
the square and compass with the letter G be-
tween . This was the jewel worn by Hiram
Abif on the day which deprived the Craft of
his invaluable services, and which was subse-
quently found upon him .
Jewel, Member's . 	In many Lodges, es-
pecially among the Germans, where it is
called "Mitglieder Zeichen," a jewel is pro-
vided for every member, and presented to
him on his initiation or alliliation . It is to be
worn from the buttonhole, and generally con-
tains the name of the Lodge and some Masonic
device .
Jewels, Immovable . See Jewels of a
Lodge .
Jewels, Movable . 	See Jewels of a Lodge .
Jewels of a Lodge . 	Every Lodge is fur-
nished with six jewels, three of which are mov-
able and three immovable . They are termed
jewels, says Oliver, because they have a moral
tendency which renders them jewels of ines-
timable value . The movable jewels, so called
because they are not confined to any partic-
ular part of the Lodge, are the rough ashlar,
the perfect ashlar, and the trestle-board . The
immovable jewels are the square, the level,
and the plumb . They are termed immovable,
because they are appropriated to particular
parts of the Lodge, where alone they should
be found namely, the square to the east, the
level to the west, and the plumb to the south .
In the English system the division is the re-
verse of this . There, the square, level, and
plumb are called movable jewels, because
they pass from the three officers who wear
them to their successors .
Jewels, Official . Jewels are the names ap-
plied to the emblems worn by the officers of
Masonic bodies as distinctive badges of their
offices . For the purpose of reference, the
jewels worn in Symbolic Lodges, in Chapters,
Councils, and Encampments are here ap-
pended .
1 . In Symbolic Lodges .
W . . Master 	wears a square .
Senior Warden " 	a level .
Junior Warden 	" a plumb .
Treasurer 	cross keys .
Secretary " 	cross pens .
Senior Deacon " 	square and compass,
sun in the center .
Junior Deacon 	" 	square and compass,
moon in the center .
Steward 	" 	a cornucopia .
Tiler 	" 	cross swords .
The jewels are of silver in a subordinate
Lodge and of gold in a Grand Lodge . In
English Lodges, the jewel of the Deacon is a
dove and olive branch .
2 . In Royal Arch Chapters .
High Priest wears a miter .
King 	" 	a level surmounted by a
crown .
Scribe 	a plumb-rule surmounted
by a turban .
Captain of the Host
Principal Sojourner
Royal Arch Captain 	"
Grand Master of the
Veils 	it
JEWELS 	369
wears a triangular plate
inscribed with
a soldier .
a triangular plate
inscribed with
a pilgrim .
a sword .
a sword .
The other officers as in a Symbolic Lodge
All the jewels are of gold, and suspended
within an equilateral triangle .
3 . In Royal and Select Councils .
T . I . Grand Master 	wears a trowel and
square .
I. Hiram of Tyre 	" a 	trowel 	and
level .
Principal Conductor of
the Works 	It 	a 	trowel 	and
plumb .
Treasurer 	" a 	trowel and
cross keys .
Recorder 	" a 	trowel and
cross pens .
Captain of the Guards 	" a 	trowel and
sword .
Steward 	" a 	trowel 	and
cross swords .
Marshal 	" a 	trowel and
baton .
If a Conductor of the Council is used, he
wears a trowel and baton, and then a scroll is
added to the Marshal's baton to distinguish
the two officers .
All the jewels are of silver, and are enclosed
within an equilateral triangle .
4 . In Commanderies of Knights Templars .
Em't Commander wears a cross surmounted
by rays of light .
Generalissimo 	" 	a square surmounted
by a paschal lamb .
Captain-General 	" 	a level surmounted
by a cock .
Prelate 	a triple triangle .
Senior Warden 	" 	a hollow square and
sword of justice .
Junior Warden 	" eagle and flaming
sword .
Treasurer 	" 	cross keys .
Recorder 	" 	cross pens .
Standard-Bearer 	" 	a plumb surmounted
by a banner .
Warder 	" 	a square plate in-
scribed 	with 	a
trumpet and cross
swords .
Three Guards 	" 	a square plate in-
scribed 	with 	a
battle-ax .
The jewels are of silver .
Jewels, Precious . 	In the lectures of the
Second and Third degrees, allusion is made to
certain moral qualities, which, as they are in-
tended to elucidate and impress the most im-
portant moral principles of the degree, are for

370 	JEWISH
theirgreat value called the Precious Jewels of
a Fellow-Craft and the Precious Jewels of a
Master Mason . There are three in each de-
Reel and they are referred to by the Alarm .
eir explanation is esoteric .
Jewish Rites and Ceremonies . 	A period
of excitement in favor of the rites of Judaism
centered upon and pervaded the people of
various nations during the early portion of the
fourteenth century . The ceremonies grew and
took fast hold upon the minds of the Romans,
and, combining with their forms, spread to
Constantinople and northwest to Germany
and France . The Jewish rites, traditions, and
legends thus entered the mystic schools . It
was during this period that the legend of Hiram
first became known (Bro . G . H . Fort), and
Jehovah's name, and mystic forms were trans-
mitted from Byzantine workmen to Teutonic
sodalities and German gilds . Thus also, when
the Christian enthusiasm pervades the North,
Paganism gave way, and the formal toasts
at the ceremonial banquets were drunk in
the name of the saints in lieu of those of the
Pagan gods .
Jews, Disqualification of . 	The great
principles of religious and political toleration
which peculiarly characterize Freemasonry
would legitimately make no religious faith
which recognized a Supreme Being a disqual-
ification for initiation . But, unfortunately,
these principles have not alwaysbeenregarded,
and from an early period the German Lodges,
and especially the Prussian, were reluctant to
accord admission to Jews . This action has
given great offense to the Grand Lodges of
other countries which were more liberal in
their views, and were more in accord with the
Masonic spirit, and was productive of dissen-
sions among the Masons of Germany, many
of whom were opposed to this intolerant pol-
icy . But a better spirit now prevails ; and
very recently the Grand Lodge of the Three
Globes at Berlin, the leading Masonic body of
Prussia, has removed the interdict, and Juda-
ism is there no longer a disqualification for
initiation .
Jezeeds . 	A Mohammedan sect in Turkey
and Persia, which took its name from the
founder, Jezeed, a chief who slew the sons of
Ali, the father-in-law of Mohammed . They
were ignorant in the extreme, having faith in
both the Hebrew Bible and Koran ; their
hymns were addressed, without distinction, to
Moses, Christ, or Mohammed .
Jezirah or Jetzirah, Book of . 	M"13`
"TO ii e . Book of the Creation . A Kabbalistic
worir, wLch is claimed by the Kabbalists as
their first and oldest code of doctrines, although
it has no real affinity with the tenets of the
Kabbala . The authorship of it is attributed
to the patriarch Abraham ; but the actual date
of its first appearance is supposed to be about
the ninth century . Steinschneider says that
it opens the literature of the Secret Doctrine .
Its fundamental idea is, that in the ten digits
and the twenty letters of the Hebrew alpha-
bet we are to find the origin of all things . Lan-
dauer, a German Hebraist, thinks that the
JOHN'S
author of the Jetzirah borrowed his doctrine
of numbers from the School of Pythagoras,
which is very probable . The old Masons, it is
probable, derived some of their mystical ideas
of sacred numbers from this work .
Joabert . This, according to the legends
of the high degrees, was the name of the chief
favorite of Solomon, who incurred the dis-
pleasure of Hiram of Tyre on a certain occa-
sion, but was subsequently pardoned, and, on
account of the great attachment he had shown
to the person of his master, was appointed the
Secretary of Solomon and Hiram in their most
intimate relations . 	He was afterward . still
further promoted by Solomon, and appointed
with Tito and Adoniram a Provost and Judge .
He distinguished himself in his successful ef-
forts to bring certain traitors to condign pun-
ishment, and although by his rashness he at
first excited the anger of the king, he was sub-
sequently forgiven, and eventually received
the highest reward that Solomon could be-
stow by being made an Elect, Perfect, and
Sublime Mason . The name is evidently not
Hebrew, or must at least have undergone
much corruption, for in its present form it can-
not be traced to a Hebrew root . Lenning says
(Encyclopadie) that it is Johaben, or, more
properly, Ihaoben, which he interprets the Son
of God ; but it would be difficult to find any
such meaning according to the recognized
rules of the Hebrew etymology .
Joachim, Order of . A secret association
instituted in Germany toward the end of the
last century . Its recipients swore that they
believed in the Trinity, and would never waltz .
None but nobles, their wives and children,
were admitted . It had no connection with
Masonry .
Jobei . 	(Heb ., ~n1`, jubilans .) A name of
God used in the Thirteenth Degree, A . A .
Scottish Rite .
Jochebed . 	(Heb ., '1»1`, God-glorified .)
The wife of Amram, and mother of Miriam,
Moses, and Aaron .
Johaben . (Heb ., Latin, Filius Dei .)
A name of continuous use in the A . A . Scottish
Rite, and also mentioned in the Fourth and
Fifth degrees of the modern French Rite .
Johannite Masonry . 	A term introduced
by Dr . Oliver to designate the system of Ma-
sonry, of which the two Sts . John are recog-
nized as the patrons, and to whom the Lodges
are dedicated, in contradistinction to the more
recent system of Dr . Hemming, in which the
dedication is to Moses and Solomon . Oliver
was much opposed to the change, and wrote an
interesting work on the subject entitled A
Mirror for the Johannite Masons, which was
published in 1848 . According to his defini-
tion, the system practised in the United States
is Johannite Masonry .
Johannites . 	A Masonico-religious sect
established in Paris, in 1814, by Fabre-Pali-
prat, and attached to the Order of the Temple,
of which he was the Grand Master . (See
Levitikon and Temple, Order of the .)
John's Brothers . 	In the charter of Co-
logne, it is said that before the year 1440 the

JOHNSON
eociety of Freemasons was known by no other
name thaw that of "John's Brothers," Joan-
naeorum fratrum ; that they then began to be
called at Valenciennes, Free and Accepted
Masons and that at that time, in some parts
of Flanders, by the assistance and riches of the
brotherhood, the first hospitals were erected
for the relief of such as were afflicted Nvith St .
Anthony's fire . In another part of the char-
ter it is said that the authors of the associa-
tions were called "Brothers consecrated to
John" fratres Joanni Sacros-because "they
followed the example and imitation of John
the Baptist ."
Johnson . 	Sometimes spelled Johnstone .
An adventurer, and Masonic charlatan, whose
real name was Leucht . He assumed Masonry
as a disguise under which he could carry on his
impositions . He appeared first at Jena, in the
beginning of the year 1763, and proclaimed
that he had been deputed by the chiefs of
Templar Masonry in Scotland to introduce a
reform into the German Lodges . He estab-
lished a Chapter of Strict Observance (the
Rite then dominating in Germany), and as-
sumed the dignity of Grand Prior . He made
war upon Rosa, the founder of the Rosaic Rite,
and upon the Grand Lodge of the Three
Globes, which then sustained that enthusiast .
Many of the German Lodges succumbed to his
pretensions, and, surrendering their Warrants,
gave in their adhesion to Johnson . Von Hund
himself was at first deceived by him ; but in
1764, at Altenberg, having discovered that
Johnson had been formerly under the name of
Becker, the secretary of tie Prince of Bern-
ber~, whose confidence he had betrayed ; that
during the seven years' war he had been wan-
dering about, becoming finally, the servant of
a Mason, whose papers he had stolen, and that
by means of these papers he had been passing
himself as that individual, B . von Hund de-
nounced him as an impostor . Johnson fled,
but was subsequently arrested at Magdeburg,
and imprisoned in the fortress of Wartzberg,
where in 1773 he died suddenly .
John the Baptist . See Saint John the
Ba ptist .
John the Evangelist . See Saint John the
Evangelist .
Joinvilie, Chaillou de . See Chaillou de
Joinville .
Jokshan . (Heb .,,Tnj)`, fowler .) The second
son of Abraham and Keturah, whose sons ap-
pear to be the ancestors of the Sabeans and
Dedanites, who inhabited part of Arabia Felix .
(Same as Jeksan .)
Jones, Inigo . 	One of the most celebrated
of English architects, and hence called the
Vitruvius of England . He was born at London
on July 15, 1573, and died June 21, 1652, in
the seventy-ninth year of his age . He was
successively the architect of three kings-
James I ., Charles I ., and Charles II .-and
during his long career superintended the erec-
tion of many of the most magnificent public
and private edifices in England, among which
were the Banqueting-House of Whitehall, and
the old church of St . Paul's . Jones's official
JONES 	371
position placed him, of course, in close con-
nection with the Operative Masons . Ander-
son, seizing on this circumstance, says that
James I . "approved of his being chosen Grand
Master of England, to preside over the
Lodges" (Constitutions, 1738, p . 98) ; but the
Earl of Pembroke being afterward chosen
Grand Master, he appointed Jones his Deputy .
These statements are copied by Entick and
Noorthouck in their respective editions of
the Book of Constitutions ; but it, is hardly
necessary to say that they need historical con-
firmation . Preston says :
"During his administration, several learned
men were initiated into the Order, and the so-
ciety considerably increased in consequence
and reputation . Ingenious artists daily re-
sorted to England, where they met with great
encouragement ; Lodges were instituted as
seminaries of instruction in the sciences and
polite arts, after the model of the Italian
schools ; the communications of the Fra-
ternity were established, and the annual fes-
tivals regularly observed ."
There may be exaggeration or assumption
in much of this, but it cannot be denied that
the office of Jones as "King's Architect," and
his labors as the most extensive builder of his
time, must have brought him into close inti-
macy with the associations of Operative Ma-
sons, which were being rapidly influenced by a
speculative character . It will be remembered
that six years before Jones's death, Elias Ash-
mole was, by his own account, made a Free-
mason at Warrington, and Jones the architect
and builder could hardly have taken less in-
terest in the society than Ashmole the astrol-
oger and antiquary . We have, perhaps, a
right to believe that Jones was a Freemason .
Jones, Stephen . A miscellaneous writer
and Masonic author of some celebrity . He
was born at London in 1764, and educated at
St . Paul's school . He was, on leaving school,
placed under an eminent sculptor, but, on ac-
count of some difference, was removed and
apprenticed to a printer . On the expiration of
his articles, he was engaged as corrector of the
press, by Mr . Strahan, the king's printer .
Four years afterward, he removed to the
office of Mr . Thomas Wright, where he re-
mained until 1797, when the death of his em-
ployer dissolved his immediate connection
with the printing business . He then became
the editor of the Whitehall Evening Post, and,
on the decline of that paper, of the General
Evening Post, and afterward of the European
Magazine . 	His contributions to literature
were very various . He supervised an edition
of Reed's Biographia Dramatica, an abridg-
ment of Burke's Reflections on the French Rev-
olution, and also abridgments of many other
popular works . But, he is best known in
general literature by his Pronouncing and Ex-
planatory Dictionary of the English Language,
published in 1798 . This production, although
following Walker's far superior work, was
very favorably received by the public .
In Masonry, Stephen Jones occupied a very
high position . He was a Past Master of the

372 	JOPPA
Lodge of Antiquity, of which William Preston
was a member, and of whom Jones was an in-
timate friend, and one of his executors . Pres-
ton had thoroughly instructed him in his
system, and after the death of that distin-
guished Mason, he was the first to fill the ap-
pointment of Prestonian lecturer . In 1797 he
published Masonic Miscellanies in Prose and
Poetry, which went through many editions,
the last being that of 1811 . In a graceful ded-
ication to Preston he acknowledges his in-
debtedness to him for any insight that he may
have acquired into the nature and design of
Masonry . In 1816 he contributed the ar-
ticle "Masonry or *reemasonry" to the En-
cyclopedia Londinensis . 	In 1821 after the
death of Preston, he published an edition of the
Illustrations, with Additions and Corrections .
Bro . Matthew Cooke (London Freemasons'
Magazine, September, 1859) says of him :
"In the Masonic Craft, Bro . Jones was very
deeply versed . He was a man of genial sym-
pathies, and a great promoter of social gath-
erings ." John Britton the architect, who knew
him well, says of him (Autobiog ., p . 302), that
"he was a man of mild disposition, strict hon-
esty, great industry, and unblemished char-
acter ." In his latter days he was in embar-
rassed circumstances, and derived pecuniary
aid from the Literary Fund . He died, on De-
cember 20, 1828, of dropsy, in King Street,
Holborn, London .
Joppa . 	A town of Palestine and the sea-
port of Jerusalem, from which it is distant
about forty miles in a westerly direction . It
was here that the King of Tyre sent ships
laden with timber and marble to be forwarded
overland to Solomon for the construction of
the Temple . Its shore is exceedingly rough,
and much dreaded by navigators, who, on ac-
count of its exposure, and the perpendicu-
larity of its banks, are compelled to be perpet-
ually on their guard . The following extract
from the narrative of the Baron Geramb, a
Trappist, who visited the Holy Land in 1842,
will be interesting to Mark Masters . "Yes-
terday morning at daybreak, boats put off and
surrounded the vessel to take us to the town
(of Joppa), the access to which is difficult on
account of the numerous rocks that present to
view their bare flanks . The walls were covered
with spectators, attracted by curiosity . The
boats being much lower than the bridge, upon
which one is obliged to climb, and having no
ladder, the landing is not effected without dan-
ger . More than once it has happened that pas-
sengers, in springing out, have broken their
limbs ; and we might have met with the like
accident, if several persons had not hastened to
our assistance ." (Pilgrimage to Jerusalem and
Mount Sinai, vol . i ., p . 27 .) The place is now
called Jaffa .
Joram . 	(Heb ., D11y, excelsus .) 	One of
three architects sent by Solomon to superin-
tend the cutting and preparing of timber .
Jordan . 	A river of Judea, on the banks of
which occurred the slaughter of the Ephraim-
ites, which is alluded to in the Second Degree .
Jordan, Charles Stephen . 	Secret coun-
JOSHUA
selor of the King of Prussia, and Vice-Presi-
dent of the Academy of Sciences in Berlin,
was born in the year 1700, and died in the
year 1745 . In the year 1740, he founded
with the Baron von Bielfeld, the Lodge of
Three Globes at Berlin, of which he was Sec-
retary until the time of his death .
Jordan, Fords of the . 	The exact locality
of these fords (or "passages," as the Bible
terms them) cannot now be designated, but
most likely they were those nearly due east
of Seikoot, and opposite Mizpah . At these
fords, in summer time, the water is not more
than three or four feet deep, the bottom being
composed of a hard limestone rock . If, as
some think, the fords thirty miles higher up
are those referred to the same desexiption will
apply . At either place, the Jordan is about
eighty feet wide ; its banks encumbered by
a dense growth of tamarisks, cane, willows,
thorn bushes, and other low vegetation of the
shrubby and thorny sorts, which make it dif-
ficult even to approach the margin of the
stream . The Arabs cross the river at the pres-
ent day, at stages of low water, at a number of
fords, from the one near the point where the
Jordan leaves the sea of Galilee, down to the
Pilgrims' Ford, six miles above the Dead Sea .
(Morris, Freemasonry in the Holy Land, p . 316 .)
Joseph II . 	This emperor of Germany,
who succeeded his mother Maria Theresa, at
one time encouraged the Masons in his domin-
ions, and, notwithstanding the efforts of the
priests to prevent it, issued a decree in 1785,
written, says Lenning, by his own hand,
which permitted the meetings of Lodges
under certain restrictions as to number . In
this decree he says :
"In return for their compliance with this
ordinance, the government accords to the
Freemasons welcome, protection, and liberty ;
leaving entirely to their own direction the con-
trol of their members and their constitutions .
The government will not attempt to pene-
trate into their mysteries .
"Following these directions, the Order of
Freemasons, in which body are comprised a
great number of worthy men who are well-
known to me, may become useful to the
state ."
But the Austrian Masons did not enjoy this
tolerance long ; the Emperor at length yielded
to the counsels and the influence of the bigoted
priesthood, and in 1789 the ordinance was
rescinded, and the Lodges were forbidden to
congregate under the severest penalties .
Josephus, Flavlus . 	A Jewish author who
lived in the first century, and wrote in Greek,
among other works, a History of the Jews, to
which recourse has been had in some of the
high degrees, such as the Prince of Jerusalem
and Knight of the Red Cross, or Red Cross of
Babylon, for details in framing their rituals .
Joshaphat, Son of Ahilud . The name of
the Orator in the degree of Provost and Judge,
A . A . Scottish Rite .
Joshua . 	The high priest who, with Zerub-
babel the Prince of Judah, superintended
the rebuilding of the Temple after the Baby-

JOURNEY
Ionian captivity . He was the high priest by
lineal descent from the pontifical family, for
he was the son of Josadek, who was the son of
Seraiah, who was the high priest when the
Temple was destroyed by the Chaldeans . He
was distinguished for the zeal with which he
prosecuted the work of rebuilding, and op-
posed the interference of the Samaritans . He
is represented by the High Priest in the Royal
Arch Degree according to the York and Amer-
ican Rites .
Journey . 	Journeywork, or work by the
day, in contradistinction to task, or work by
the piece, and so used in all the old Constitu-
tions . 	Thus, in the Dowland MS ., there is
the charge "that noe maister nor fellows, put
no lord's work to taske that was want to goe
to jornaye ." It was fairer to the lord and to
the craftsman to work by the day than by the
piece .
Journeyman . 	When the Lodges were al-
together operative in their character, a Mason,
having served his apprenticeship, began to
work for himself, and he was then called a
journeyman ; but he was required, within a
reasonable period (in Scotland it was two
years), to obtain admission into a Lodge, when
he was said to have passed a Fellow-Craft .
Hence the distinction between Fellow-Crafts
and journeymen was that the former were and
the latter were not members of Lodges . Thus,
in the minutes of St . Mary's Chapel Lodge of
Edinburgh, on the 27th of December, 1689, it
was declared that "No Master shall employ a
person who has not been passed a Fellow
Craft in two years after the expiring of his ap-
prenticeship" ; and the names of several jour-
neymen are given who had not complied with
the law . A similar regulation was repeated
by the same Lodge in 1705, complaint having
been made "that there are several Masters
of this house that tolerate jurnimen to work
up and down this citie contrary to their oath
of admission" ; and such journeymen were
forbidden to seek employment . The patron-
age of the Craft of Freemasons was bestowed
only on those who had become "free of the
gil "
Jova . A significant word in the high de-
grees . It is a corrupted form of the Tetra-
grammaton .
Jua . 	A corrupted form of the Tetragram-
maton, and a significant word in the high
degrees .
Jubal Cain . 	Erroneously used for Tubal
Cain, which see . 	Jubal was the second son
of Lamech by his first wife, Ada, and was the
founder of the science of music ; while the
third son, Tubal Cain, was a famous smith-
wright .
Jubela-o-m . The mythical names of as-
sassins, the true interpretation of which is
only known to the initiate who is an esoteric
student .
Judah . 	The whole of Palestine was some-
times called the land of Judah, because Judah
was a distinguished tribe in obtaining posses-
sion of the country . The tribe of Judah bore
a lion in its standard, and hence the Ma-
JURISDICTION 	373
sonic allusion to the Lion of the tribe of
Judah . 	(See also Genesis xlix . 9, "Judah is a
lion's whelp .")
Judah and Benjamin . 	Of the twelve
tribes of Israel who were, at various times,
carried into captivity, only two, those of Judah
and Benjamin, returned under Zerubbabel to
rebuild the second Temple . Hence, in the high
degrees, which are founded on events that oc-
curred at and after the building of the second
Temple, the allusions are made only to the
tribes of Judah and Benjamin .
Judith . 	(Heb ., i1"11,T1 .) 	Used in the
French Adoptive Masonry, and in the Fifth
Degree of Sovereign Illustrious Ecossais .
Jug Lodges . 	An opprobrious epithet be-
stowed, during the anti-Masonic excitement,
upon certain assemblages of worthless men
who pretended to confer the degrees upon
candidates weak enough to confide in them .
They derived their instructions from the so-
called expositions of Morgan, and exacted a
trifling fee for initiation, which was generally
a jug of whisky, or money enough to buy one .
They were found in the mountain regions of
North and South Carolina and Georgia .
Junior Adept . 	(Junior Adeptus .) One of
the degrees of the German Rose Croix .
Junior Entered Apprentice . According
to the rituals of the early part of the last
century, the Junior Entered Apprentice was
placed in the North, and his duty was to keep
out all cowans and eavesdroppers . There was
also a Senior Entered Apprentice, and the two
seem to have occupied, in some manner, the
positions now occupied by the Senior and
Junior Deacons . (See Senior Entered Ap-
prentice .)
Junior Overseer . 	The lowest officer in a
Mark Lodge . When Royal Arch Chapters
are opened in the Mark Degree, the duties of
the Junior Overseer are performed by the
Grand Master of the First Veil .
Junior Warden . 	The third officer in a
Symbolic Lodge . He presides over the Craft
during the hours of refreshment, and, in the
absence of the Master and Senior Warden, he
performs the duty of presiding officer . Hence,
if the Master and Senior Warden were to
die or remove from the jurisdiction, the Junior
Warden would assume the chair for the re-
mainder of the term . The jewel of the
Junior Warden is a plumb, emblematic of the
rectitude of conduct which should distinguish
the brethren when, during the hours of re-
freshment, they are beyond the precincts of
the Lodge . His seat is in the South, and he
represents the Pillar of Beauty . He has placed
before him, and carries in procession, a col-
umn, which is the representative of the left-
hand pillar which stood at the porch of the
Temple . 	(See Wardens .)
The sixth officer in a Commandery of
Knights Templar is also styled Junior Warden .
His duties, especially in the reception of can-
didates, are very important . His jewel of
office is an Eagle holding a Flaming Sword .
Jurisdiction of a Grand Lodge . 	The
jurisdiction of a Grand Lodge extends over

374 	JURISDICTION
every Lodge working within its territorial
limits, and over all places not already oc-
cupied by a Grand Lodge . The territorial
limits of a Grand Lodge are determined in
general by the political boundaries of the
country in which it is placed . Thus the terri-
torial limits of the Grand Lodge of New York
are circumscribed within the settled bounda-
ries of that State . Nor can its jurisdiction ex-
tend beyond these limits into any of the
neighboring States . The Grand Lodge of New
York could not, therefore, without an infringe-
ment of Masonic usage, grant a Warrant of
Constitution to any Lodge located in any
State where there was already a Grand Lodge .
It might, however, charter a Lodge in a Terri-
tory, where there is not in existence a Grand
Lodge of that Territory . Thus the Lodges of
Franceheldtheirallegianceto theGrandLodge
of England until the formation of a Grand
Lodge of France, and the Grand Lodges of
both England, Scotland, and France granted
Warrants to various Lodges in America until
after the Revolution, when the States began
to organize Grand Lodges for themselves . For
the purposeof avoiding collision and unfriendly
feeling, it has become the settled usage, that
when a Grand Lodge has been legally organ-
ized in a State, all the Lodges within its limits
musts urrender the charters which they have
received from foreign bddies, and accept new
ones from the newly established Grand . Lodge .
This is the settled and well-recognized law of
American and English Masonry . But the con-
tinental Masons, and especially the Germans,
have not so rigidly interpreted this law of un-
occupied territory ; and there have been in
France, and still are in Germany, several
Grand Lodges in the same kingdom exercising
coordinate powers .
Jurisdiction of a Lodge . The jurisdic-
tion of a Lodge is geographical or personal .
The geographical jurisdiction of a Lodge is that
which it exercises over the territory within
which it is situated, and extends to all the
Masons, affiliated and unaffiliated, who -live
within that territory . This jurisdiction ex-
tends to a point equally distant from the ad-
jacent Lodge . Thus, if two Lodges are situ-
ated within twenty miles of each other, the
geographical jurisdiction of each will extend
ten miles from its seat in the direction of
the other Lodge . But in this case both Lodges
must be situated in the same State, and hold
their Warrants from the same Grand Lodge ;
JUST
for it is a settled point of Masonic law that no
Lodge can extend its geogr aphical jurisdic-
tion beyond the territorial limits of its own
Grand Lodge .
The personal jurisdiction of a Lodge is that
penal jurisdiction which it exercises over its
own members wherever they may be situated .
No matter how far a Mason may remove from
the Lodge of which he is a member, his alle-
giance to that Lodge is indefeasible so long as
he continues a member, and it may exercise
penal jurisdiction over him .
Jurisdiction of a Supreme Council .
The Masonic jurisdiction of the whole terri-
tory of the United States for the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite was divided between
the Southern and Northern Supreme Coun-
cils in accordance with a special concession
made by the former body in 1813, when the
latter was organized . By this concession the
Northern Supreme Council has jurisdiction
over the States of Maine, New Hampshire,
Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Con-
necticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware,
Pennsylvania Ohio, Illinois, and Indiana ;
all the other Atates and Territories are under
the jurisdiction of the Southern Supreme
Council .
Justice . 	One of the four cardinal virtues,
the practise of which is inculcated in the First
Degree . The Mason who remembers how em-
phatically he has been charged to preserve
an upright position in all his dealings with
mankind, should never f ail to act justly to him-
self, to his brethren, and to the world . This
is the corner-stone on which alone he can ex-
pect "to erect a superstructure alike honor-
able to himself and to the Fraternity ." In
iconology, Justice is usually represented as a
matron with bandaged eyes, holding in one
hand a sword and in the other a pair of scales
at equipoise . But in Masonry the true sym-
bol of Justice, as illustrated in the First Degree
is the feet firmly planted on the ground, and
the body upright .
Justification . 	The Fifth Degree in the
Rite of Fessler .
Just Lodge . 	A Lodge is said to be Just,
Perfect, and Regular under the following cir-
cumstances : Just, when it is furnished with
the three Great Lights ; Perfect, when it con-
tains the constitutional number of members ;
and Regular, when it is working under a Char-
ter of Warrant of Constitution emanating
from the legal authority .

H . 	(Heb ., 5, Caph, signifying hollow of the
hand .) This is the eleventh letter of the Eng-
lish alphabet and in He-
brew has the numerical
value of 20 . In the Chal-
daic or hieroglyphic it is rep-
resented by a hand .
Haaba . The name of the holy temple of
Mecca, which is to the Mohammedans what
the Temple of Solomon was to the Jews . It is
certainly older, as Gibbon admits, than the
Christian era, and is supposed, by the tra-
dition of the Arabians, to have been erected
in the nineteenth century B .c ., by Abraham,
who was assisted by his son Ishmael . It de-
rives its name of Kaaba from its cubical form,
it being fifteen feet long, wide, and high . It
has but one aperture for light, which is a door
in the east end . In the northeast corner is
a black stone, religiously venerated by the
Mussulmans, called "the black stone of the
Kaaba," around which cluster many traditions .
One of these is that it came down from Para-
dise, and was originally as white as milk, but
that the sins of mankind turned it black ; an-
other is, that it is a ruby which was originally
one of the precious stones of heaven, but that
God deprived it of its brilliancy, which would
have illuminated the world from one end to
the other . Syed Ahmed, who, for a Mussul-
man has written a very rational History of
the loly Mecca (London, 1870), says that the
black stone is really a piece of rock from the
mountains in the vicinity of Mecca ; that it
owes its black color to the effects of fire ; and
that before the erection of the temple of the
Kaaba, it was no other than one of the numer-
ous altars erected for the worship of God, and
was, together with other stones, laid up in
one of the corners of the temple at the time of
its construction . It is, in fact, one of the
relics of the ancient stone worship ; yet it re-
minds us of the foundation-stone of the Sol-
omonic Temple, to which building the temple
of the Kaaba has other resemblances . Thus,
Syed Ahmed, who, in opposition to most
Christian writers, devoutly believes in its
Abrahamic or n, says that (p . 6) "the tem-
ple of the Kaaba was built by Abraham in
conformity with those religious practices ac-
cording to which, after a lapse of time, the de-
scendants of his second son built the Temple
of Jerusalem ."
Kabbala . The mystical philosophy or
theosophy of the Jews is called the Kabbala .
The word is derived from the Hebrew 5Z7,
Kabal, signifying to receive, because it is the
doctrine received from the elders . It has some-
times been used in an enlarged sense, as com-
prehending all the explanations, maxims, and
ceremonies which have been traditionally
handed down to the Jews ; but in that more
limited acceptation, in which it is intimately
connected with the symbolic science of Free-
masonry, the Kabbala may be defined to be a
KABBALA 	375
system of philosophy which embraces certain
mystical interpretations of Scripture, and
metaphysical speculations concerning the
Deity, man, and spiritual beings . In these
interpretations and speculations, according to
the Jewish doctors, were enveloped the most
profound truths of religion, which, to be com-
prehended by finite beings, are obliged to be
revealed through the medium of symbols and
allegories . Buxtorf (Lex . Talm .) defines the
Kabbala to be a secret science, which treats in
a mystical and enigmatical manner of things
divine, angelical, theological, celestial, and
metaphysical ; the subjects being enveloped
in striking symbols and secret modes of teach-
ing . Much use is made of it in the high de-
grees, and entire Rites have been constructed
on its principles . Hence it demands a place
in any general work on Masonry .
In what estimation the Kabbala is held by
Jewish scholars, we may learn from the tra-
ditions which they teach, and which Dr . Gins-
burg has given in his exhaustive work (Kab-
balah, p . 84), in the following words :
"The Kabbalah was first taught by God
himself to a select company of angels, who
formed a theosophic school in Paradise .
After the fall, the angels most graciously com-
municated this heavenly doctrine to the dis-
obedient child of earth, to furnish the proto-
plasts with the means of returning to their
pristine nobility and felicity . From Adam it
passed over to Noah, and then to Abraham,
the friend of God, who emigrated with it to
Egypt, where the patriarch allowed a portion
of this mysterious doctrine to ooze out . It
was in this way that the Egyptians obtained
some knowledge of it, and the other Eastern
nations could introduce it into their philo-
sophical systems . Moses, who was learned
in all the wisdom of Egypt, was first initiated
into it in the land of his birth, but became
most proficient in it during his wanderings in
the wilderness, when he not only devoted to it
the leisure hours of the whole forty years, but
received lessons in it from one of the angels .
By the aid . of this mysterious science the law-
giver was enabled to solve the difficulties
which arose during his management of the
Israelites, in spite of the pilgr~mages, wars,
and the frequent miseries of the nation . He
covertly laid down the principles of this secret
doctrine in the first four books of the Penta-
teuch, but withheld them-from Deuteronomy .
This constitutes the former the man, and the
latter the woman . Moses also initiated the
seventy elders into the secrets of this doctrine,
and they again transmitted them from hand to
hand . Of all who formed the unbroken line
of tradition, David and Solomon were first
initiated into the Kabbalah . No one, how-
ever, dared to write it down till Simon ban
Jochai, who lived at the time of the destruc-
tion of the second Temple . Having been con-
demned to death by Titus, Rabbi Simon man-

3 7 6 	KABBALA
aged to escape with his son, and concealed
himself in a cavern, where he remained for
twelve years . Here in this subterranean abode,
he occupied himself entirely with the contem-
plation of the sublime Kabbalah, and was con-
stantly visited by the prophet Elias who dis-
closed to him some of its secrets, which were
still concealed from the theosophical Rabbi .
Here too, his disciples resorted to be initiated
by their master into these divine mysteries ;
and here Simon ben Jochai expired with this
heavenly doctrine in his mouth, whilst dis-
coursing on it to his disciples . Scarcely had
his spirit departed, when a dazzling light filled
the cavern, so that no one could look at the
Rabbi ; whilst a burning fire appeared out-
side, forming as it were a sentinel at the en-
trance of the cave, and denying admittance to
the neighbors . It was not till the light inside,
and the fire outside, had disappeared, that the
disciples perceived that the lamp of Israel was
extinguished . As they were preparing for his
obsequies, a voice was heard from heaven,
saying, `Come ye to the marriage of Simon b .
Jochai ; he is entering into peace, and shall
rest in his chamber!' A flame preceded the
coffin which seemed enveloped by and burn-
ing lie fire . And when the remains were de-
posited in the tomb, another voice was heard
from heaven, saying, `This is he who caused
the earth to quake and the kingdoms to shake!'
His son, R . Eliezer, and his secretary, R . Abba,
as well as his disciples, then collated R . Simon
b . Jochai's treatises, and out of these com-
posed the celebrated work called Sohar, (11D,)
i . e . Splendor, which is the grand storehouse
of I~abbalism ."
The Kabbala is divided into two kinds, the
Practical and the Theoretical . The Practical
Kabbala is occupied in instructions for the
construction of talismans and amulets, and
has no connection with Masonic science . The
Theoretical Kabbala is again divided into the
Dogmatic and the Literal . The Dogmatic
Kabbala is the summary of the rabbinical the-
osophy and philosophy . The Literal Kabbala
is the science which teaches a mystical mode of
explaining sacred things by a peculiar use of
the letters of words, and a reference to their
value . Each of these divisions demands a
separate attention .
I . Trm DOGMATIC KABBALA . 	The origin
of the Kabbala has been placed by some schol-
ars at a period posterior to the advent of
Christianity, but it is evident, from the traces
of it which are found in the Book of Daniel,
that it arose at a much earlier day . It has
been supposed to be derived originally from
the system of Zoroaster, but whether its in-
ventors were the contemporaries or the suc-
cessors of that philosopher and reformer it is
impossible to say . The doctrine of emana-
tion is, says King (Gnostics, p . 10), "the soul,
the essential element of the Kabbala- it is
likewise the essential element of ioroas-
trism ." 	But as we advance in the study of
each we will find important differences, show-
ing that, while the idea of the Kabbalistic the-
osophy was borrowed from the Zendavesta,
KABBALA
the sacred book of the Persian sage, it was not
a copy, but a development of it .
The Kabbalistic teachin* of emanation is
best understood by an examination of the doc-
trine of the Sephiroth .
The Supreme Being, say the Kabbalists, is
an absolute and inscrutable unity, having
nothing without him and everything within
him . He is called ~`ID ,`K, EN SOPH, "The
Infinite One ." In this infinitude he cannot be
comprehended by the intellect, nor described
in words intelligible by human minds, so as to
make his existence perceptible . It was nec-
essary, therefore, that, to render himself com-
prehensible, the En Soph should make himself
active and creative . But he could not become
the direct creator ; because, being infinite, he
is without will, intention, thought, desire, or
action, all of which are qualities of a finite
being only . The En Soph, therefore, was
compelled-to create the world in an indirect
manner by ten emanations from the infinite
light which he was and in which he dwelt .
These ten emanations are the ten Sephiroth,
or Splendors of the Infinite One, and the way
in which they were produced was thus : At
first the En Soph sent forth into space one
spiritual emanation . This first Sephirah is
called 1nD, Kether, "the Crown," because it
occupies the highest position . This first
Sephirah contained within it the other nine,
which sprang forth in the following order : At
first a male, or active potency, proceeded from
it, and this, the second Sephirab, is called
,1T»n, Chocmah or"Wisdom .' This sent forth
an opposite, female or passive potency, named
1~'Z, Binah or "Intelligence . ' 	These three
Sephiroth constitute the first triad, and out of
them proceeded the other seven . From the
junction of Wisdom and Intelligence came the
fourth Sephirah, called 1Dn, 	Chesed 	or
"Mercy ." This was a male potency, and from
it emanated the fifth Sephirah, named 111]a
Giburah or "Justice ." The union of Mercy and
Justice produced the sixth Sephirah, n1XEn,
Tiphereth or "Beauty" ; and these three con-
stitute the second triad . 	From the sixth
Sephirah came forth the seventh Sephirah, 11=,
Nitzach or "Firmness ." This was a male po-
tency, and produced the female potency
named 17 1, Hod or "Splendor ." From these
two proceeded `I1D', Isod or "Foundation " •
and these three constituted the third triad of
the Sephiroth . 	Lastly, from the Foundation
came the tenth Se pphirah, called rl)D Yt Mal-
cuth or "Kingdom, ' which was at the foot of
all, as the Crown was at the top .
This division of the ten Sephiroth into three
triads was arranged into a form called by the
Kabbalists the Kabbalistic Tree, or the Tree
of Life, as shown in the diagram on opposite
page .
In this diagram the vertical arrangement of
the Sephiroth is called "Pillars ." Thus the
four Sephiroth in the center are called the
"Middle Pillar" ; the three on the right, the
"Pillar of Mercy" ; and the three on the left,
the "Pillar of Justice ." They allude to these
two qualities of God, of which the benignity

KABBALA
of the one modifies the rigor of the other, so
that the Divine Justice is always tempered by
the Divine Mercy . 	C . W . King in his Gnos-
tics (p . 12), refers the right-hand pillar to the
Pillar Jachin, and the left-hand pillar to the
Pillar
Temple • and
which stood
two
at the
illars
porch of the
p 	p 	," he says,
"figure ~argely amongst all the secret societies
of modern tmaes, and naturally so ; for these
illuminati have borrowed, without under-
standing it, the phraseology of the Kabbalists
and the Valentinians ." But an inspection of
the arrangement of the Sephiroth will show, if
he is correct in his general reference, that he
has transposed the pillars . Firmness would
more naturally symbolize Boaz or Strength,
as Splendor would Jachin or Establishment .
These ten Sephiroth are collectively denom-
inated the archetypal man, the Microcosm, as
the Greek philosophers called it, and each of
them refers to a particular part of the body .
Thus the Crown is the head ; Wisdom, the
brain ; and Intelligence, the heart, which was
deemed the seat of understanding . These
three represent the intellectual ; and the first
triad is therefore called the Intellectual World .
KABBALA 	377
Mercy is the right arm, and Justice the left
arm, and Beauty is the chest . These three rep-
resent moral qualities ; and hence the second
triad is called the Moral World . Firmness is
the right leg, Splendor the left leg, and Founda-
tion the privates . These three represent power
and stability ; and hence the third triad is
called the Material World . Lastly, Kingdom is
the feet, the basis on which all stand, and rep-
resents the harmony of the whole archetypal
man .
Again, each of these Sephiroth was repre-
sented by a Divine name and by an Angelic
name, which may be thus tabulated :
These ten Sephiroth constitute in their
totality the Atzilatic world or the world of
emanations, and from it proceeded three other
worlds, each having also its ten Sephiroth,
namely, the Briatic world or the world of cre-
ation ; the Jetziratic world or the world of
formation ; and the Ashiatic world or the
world of action : each inhabited by a differ-
ent order of beings . But to enter fully upon
the nature of these worlds would carry us too
far into the obscure mysticism of the Kab-
bala .
These ten Sephiroth, represented in their
order of ascent from the lowest to the highest,
from the Foundation to the Crown, forcibly
remind us of the system of Mystical Ladders
which pervaded all the ancient as well as the
modern initiations ; the Brahmanical Ladder
of the Indian mysteries ; the Ladder of Mith
ras, used in the Persian mysteries ; the Scan-
dinavian Ladder of the Gothic mysteries, and
in the Masonic mysteries the Ladder of Ka-
dosh ; and lastly, the Theological Ladder of
the Symbolical degrees .
II . THE LrrERAL KABBALA . 	This division
of the Kabbala r being, as has already been
said, occupied in the explanation of sacred
words by the value of the letters of which they
are composed, has been extensively used by
the inventors of the high degrees in the sym-
bolism of their significant words . It is divided
into three species : Gematria, Notaricon, and
Temura .
1 . Gematria . 	This word which is evidently
a rabbinical corruption of the Greek geometria,
is defined by Buxtorf to be "a species of the
Kabbala which collects the same sense of dif-
ferent words from their equal numerical
value ." The Hebrews, like other ancient na-
tions, having no figures in their language,
made use of the letters of their alphabet in-
stead of numbers, each having a numerical
value . Gematria is, therefore, a mode of con-
Sephiroth . 	Divine Names . 	Angelic Names .
Crown, 	Eheyeh, 	Chajoth,
Wisdom, 	Jah, 	Ophanim,
Intelligence, Jehovah, 	Arelim,
Mercy, 	El, 	Cashmalim,
Justice, 	Eloha, 	Seraphim,
Beauty, 	Elohim, 	Shinanim,
Firmness, 	Jehovah Sabaoth, Tarshishim,
Splendor, 	Elohim Sabaoth, Beni Elohim,
Foundation, El Chai, 	Ishim,
Kingdom . 	Adonai . 	Cherubim .

378 	KABBALISTIC
templatin words according to the numerical
value of heir letters .
Any two words, the letters of which have
the same numerical value, are mutually con-
vertible, and each is supposed to contain the
latent signification of the other . Thus the
words in Genesis xlix . 10, "Shiloh shall
come," are supposed to contain a prophecy of
the Messiah, because the letters of "Shiloh
shall come," r15`ttJk :`, and of "Messiah," '1`27 110,
both have the numerical value of 358, accord-
ing to the above table . By Gematria, applied
to the Greek language, we find the identity of
Abraxas and Mithras, the letters of each
word having in the Greek alphabet the equal
value of 365 . This is by far the most common
mode of applying the literal Kabbala .
2 . Notaricon is derived from the Latin no-
tarius, a shorthand writer or writer in cipher .
The Roman Notarii were accustomed to use
single letters, to signify whole words with
other methods of abbreviation, by marks
called "note ." Hence, among the Kabba-
lists, notaricon is a mode of constructing one
word out of the initials or finals of many, or a
sentence out of the letters of a word, each let-
ter being used as the initial of another word .
Thus of the sentence in Deuteronomy xxx .12,
"Who shall go up for us to heaven?" in He-
brew . Z7`7 71 1 :5 1 I 	`n, the initial letters of
each word are taken to form the word 15`n,
"circumcision," and the finals to form 11,x`,
"Jehovah" ; hence it is concluded that Jehovah
hath shown circumcision to be the way to
heaven . Again : the six letters of the first
word in Genesis, i1, V1-) : "in the beginning,"
are made use of to form the initials of six
words which constitute a sentence signifying
that "In the beginning God saw that Israel
would accept the law," 11in ~?rlv *Zrr
=n5K r r, mrK7 : .
3 . Temura is a rabbinical word which signi-
fies permutation . Hence temura is a Kabba-
listic result produced by a change or permuta-
tion of the letters of a word . Sometimes the
letters are transposed to form another word,
as in the modern anagram ; and sometimes
the letters are changed for others, according
to certain fixed rules of alphabetical permuta-
tion, the 1st letter being placed for the 22d,
the 2d for the 21st, the 3d for the 20th, and so
on . It is in this way that Babel, 5 : :, is made
out of Sheshach, JV1V, and hence the Kabba-
lists say that when Jeremiah used the word
Sheshach (xxv . 26), he referred to Babel .
Kabbalistie Companion . A degree found
in the archives of the Mother Lodge of the
Philosophical Rite of France .
Kadiri, Order of . 	A secret society exist-
ing in Arabia, which so much resembles Free-
masonry in its object and forms, that Lieut .
Burton, who succeeded in obtaining initiation
into it, calls the members "Oriental Free-
masons ." Burton gives a very interesting
account of the Order in his Pilgrimage to El
Medinah and Mecca .
Kadosh . The name of a very important
degree in many of the Masonic Rites . The
KADOSH
word 0`tp is Hebrew, and signifies Tale or corer
secrated and is thus intended to denote the
elevated character of the degree and the sub-
limity of the truths which distinguish it and
its possessors from the other degrees . Pluche
says that in the East, a person preferred to
honors bore a scepter, and sometimes a plate
of gold on the forehead, called a Kadosh, to
apprise the people that the bearer of this
mark or rod was a public person, who pos-
sessed the privilege of entering into hostile
camps without the fear of losing his personal
liberty .
The degree of Kadosh, though found in
many of the Rites and in various countries,
seems, in all of them, to have been more or less
connected with the Knights Templar . In
some of the Rites it was placed at the head of
the list, and was then dignified as the ne plus
ultra of Masonry .
It was sometimes given as a separate order
or Rite within itself, and then it was divided
into the three degrees of Illustrious Knight of
the Temple, Knight of the Black Eagle, and
Grand Elect .
Oliver enumerates five degrees of Kadosh :
the Knight Kadosh ; Kadosh of the Chapter
of Clermont ; Philosophical Kadosh ; Kadosh
Prince of Death ; and Kadosh of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite .'
The French rituals speak of seven : Kadosh
of the Hebrews ; Kadosh of the first Chris-
tians ; Kadosh of the Crusades ; Kadosh of the
Templars ; Kadosh of Cromwell or the Puri-
tans ; Kadosh of the Jesuits ; and the True
Kadosh . But the correctness of this enumer-
ation is doubtful, for it cannot be sustained by
documentary evidence . In all of these Ka-
doshes the doctrine and the modes of recog-
nition are substantially the same, though in
most of them the ceremonies of initiation
differ .
Ragon mentions a Kadosh which is said to
have been established at Jerusalem in 1118 ;
but here he undoubtedly refers to the Order of
Knights Templar . He gives also in his Tuil-
eur General the nomenclature of no less than
fourteen Kadosh degrees .
The doctrine of the Kadosh system is that
the persecutions of the Knights Templar by
Philip the Fair of France, and Pope Clement
V ., however cruel and sanguinary in its re-
sults, did not extinguish the Order, but it con-
tinued to exist under the forms of Freema-
sonry . That the ancient Templars are the
modern Kadoshes, and that the builder at the
Temple of Solomon is now replaced by James
de Molay, the martyred Grand Master of the
Templars, the assassins being represented by
the King of France, the Pope, and Naffodei
the informer against the Order ; or, it is some-
times said, by the three informers, Squin de
Florian, Naffodei, and the Prior of Montfau-
ccon .
As to the history of the Kadosh degree, it is
said to have been first invented at Lyons, in
France, in 1743, where it appeared under the
name of the Petit Elu . 	This degree, which is
said to have been based upon the Templar doe-

KADOSH
trine heretofore referred to, was afterward
developed into the Kadosh, which we find in
1758 incorporated as the Grand Elect Kadosh
into the system of the Council of Emperors
of the East and West, which was that year
formed at Paris, whence it descended to the
Scottish Rite Masons .
Of all the Kadoshes, two only are now im-
portant, viz . : the Philosophic Kadosh, which
has been adopted by the Grand Orient of
France, and the Knight Kadosh, which con-
stitutes the Thirtieth Degree of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite, this latter being
the most generally diffused of the Kadoshes .
Kadosh, called also the Holy Man . 	(Ka-
dosch ou l'HommeSaint .) The Tenth and last
degree of the Rite of Martinism .
Kadosh, Grand, Elect Knight . 	The
Sixty-fifth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Kadosh, Knight . 	The Thirtieth Degree
of the Scottish Rite . 	(See Knight Kadosh .)
Kadosh of the Jesuits . 	According to
Thory (Act . Lat ., i ., 320), this degree is said to
have been invented by the Jesuits of the Col-
lege of Clermont . 	The statement is not well
supported . 	De Bonneville's Masonic Chap-
ter of Clermont was probably, either with or
without design, confounded with the Jesuitical
College of Clermont . 	(See Jesuits .)
Kadosh, Philosophic . 	A modification of
the original Kadosh, for which it has been sub-
stituted and adopted by the Grand Orient of
France . 	The military character of the Order
is abandoned, and the Philosophic Kadosh
wear no swords . 	Their only weapon is the
WORD .
Kadosh, Prince . A degree of the collec-
tion of Pyron .
Kadosh Prince of Death . 	The Twenty-
seventh Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Kamea . 	Hebrew, P"nP, an amulet . More
particularly applied by the Kabbalists to
magic squares inscribed on paper or parch-
ment, and tied around the neck as a safe-
guard against evil . 	(See Magic Squares .)
Kansas . 	In the year 1855 there were three
Lodges in Kansas, holding warrants from the
Grand Lodge of Missouri . 	On November 14,
1855, two of these Lodges met in convention
at Leavenworth . 	In consequence of the ab-
sence of the third Lodge, the convention ad-
journed until December 27 1855, on which
day the two Lodges of SmitLton and Leavc ;n-
worth met, and, Wyandot Lodge being again
absent, the delegates of these two Lodges or-
ganized the Grand Lodge of Kansas, and
elected Richard R . Rees Grand Master .
But these proceedings were considered il-
legal, in consequence of the convention having
been formed by two instead of three Lodges ;
and, accordingly, another convention of the
three chartered Lodges in the Territory was
held March 17, 1856, and the proceedings of
the previous convention ratified by a reenact-
ment, the same Grand Master being re-
elected . 	There are 389 Lodges under the
Grand Lodge of Kansas .
The Grand Royal Arch Chapter was estab-
lished January 27, 1866 .
KENTUCKY 	379
The Grand Council of Royal and Select
Masters was organized December 12, 1867 .
The Grand Commandery was organized
December 29, 1868 .
Karmatians . 	A Mohammedan sect that
became notorious from its removal of the cele-
brated black stone of the Kaaba, and, after
retaining it for twenty-two years, voluntarily
surrendered it . 	Founded by Karmata at
Irak in the ninth century .
Kasideans . A Latinized spelling of Chas-
idim, which see .
Katharsis . 	Greek, rca8aposs . 	The cere-
mony of purification in theAncient Mysteries .
Miiller says (Dorians i, 384) that "one of the
important parts of the * Pythagorean worship
was the pcsan, which was sung to the lyre in
spring-time by a person sitting in the midst of
a circle of listeners : this was called the kath-
arsis or purification ."
Keeper of the Seals . 	An officer called
Garde des Sceaux in Lodges of the French Rite .
It is also the title of an officer in Consistories
of the Scottish Rite . The title sufficiently in-
dicates the functions of the office .
Kellermann, Marshal . 	Duke de Valmy,
born 1770, died 1835 . Member of the Su-
preme Council and Grand Officer of Honor of
G . 0 . of France ; elected 1814 . Served in the
battles of Marengo, Austerlitz, and Waterloo .
Kelly, Christopher . 	A Masonic plagi-
arist, who stole bodily the whole of the typ-
ical part of the celebrated work of Samuel
Lee entitled Orbis Miraculum, or The Temple
of Solomon pourtrayed by Scripture Light, and
published it as his own under the title of Sol-
omon's Temple spiritualized ; setting forth the
Divine Mysteries of the Temple, with an ac-
count of its Destruction . 	He prefaced the book
with An Address to all Free and Accepted Ma-
sons . 	The first edition was published at
Dublin in 1803, and on his removal to America
he published a second in 1820, at Philadel-
phia . 	Kelly was, unfortunately, a Free-
mason, but not an honest one .
Kenning's Masonic Cyelopaedia . Edited
by Rev . A . F . A . Woodford, in London, con-
temporaneously with the Encydopwdia of
Dr . A . G . Mackey, in America, but published
by the well-known Bro . George Kenning,
198 Fleet Street, London, to whom the work
is dedicated in affectionate terms . 	Ken-
ning 's Cyclopa :dia is rendered unusually inval-
uable in consequence of the fulness of its bib-
liography . 	Moss's well-known Bibliographie
der Freimaurer does not become so great a ne-
cessity, having Kenning ; yet other subjects
have not been permitted to suffer in conse-
quence of the numerous short biographic
sketches . The work is an admirably arranged
octavo of nearly seven hundred pages .
Kentucky . 	Organized Freemasonry was
introduced by the Grand Lodge of Virginia,
which, in the year 1788, granted a charter for
Lexington Lodge, No . 25, at Lexington . 	This
was the first Lodge instituted west of the Alle-
ghany Mountains .
Three other Lodges were subsequently char-
tered by Virginia, namely, at Paris, George-

380 	KEY
town, and Frankford, and a 	nation
granted for a fifth at Shelbyville . 	ese five
Lodges met in convention at Lexin on on
September 8, 1800 . Having resolv 	that it
was expedient to organize a Grand Lodge, an
address was prepared to the Grand Lodge of
Virginia, an the convention adjourned to Oc-
tober 16th . On that day it reassembled and
organized the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, Will-
iam Murray being elected Grand Master .
Chapters of Royal Arch Masons, independ-
ent of the Grand Lodge, were first estab-
lished by Thomas Smith Webb in 1816, and
the Grand Chapter was formed December 4,
1817 .
The Grand Council of Royal and Select
Masters was organized December 10, 1827 .
The Grand Encampment (now the Grand
Commandery) was organized October 5, 1847 .
Scottish Masonry was introduced into Ken-
tucky, and the Grand Consistory organized at
Louisville, in August 1852, by Bro . Albert G .
Mackey, Secretary-~eneral of the Supreme
Council for the Southern Jurisdiction .
Key . "The key," says Dr . Oliver (Landm .,
i ., 180, note), "is one of the most important
symbols of Freemasonry . It bears the ap-
pearance of a common metal instrument, con-
fined to the performance of one simple act .
But the well-instructed brother beholds in it
the symbol which teaches him to keep a tongue
of good report, and to abstain from the debas-
ing vices of slander and defamation ." Among
the ancients the key was a symbol of silence
and circumspection ; and thus Sophocles al-
ludes to it in the (Edipus Coloneus (1051),
where he makes the chorus speak of "the
golden key which had come upon the tongue of
the ministering hierophant in the mysteries of
Eleusis-r`ov ,cal Xpvoea rcx -a s &l yXc ,ro S€SaKe
spomr6mov evμoXrcaav ." Callimachus says that
the priestess of Ceres bore a key as the ensign
of her mystic office . The key was in the mys-
teries of Isis a hieroglyphic of the opening or
disclosing of the heart and conscience, in the
kingdom of death, for trial and judgment .
In the old rituals of Masonry the key was
an important symbol and Dr . Oliver regrets
that it has been abandoned in the modern sys-
tem . In the rituals of the First Degree, in the
eighteenth century, allusion is made to a key
by whose help the secrets of Masonry are to be
obtained, which key "is said to hang and not to
lie, because it is always to hang in a brother's
defence and not to lie to his prejudice ." It was
said, too, to hang "by the thread of life at the
entrance," and was closely connected with the
heart, because the tongue "ought to utter
nothing but what the heart dictates ." And,
finall , this key is described as being "com-
pose of no metal, but a tongue of good
report ." In the ritual of the Master's Degree
in the Ado nhi ramite Rite, we find this cate-
chism :
"Q . What do you conceal?
"A . All the secrets which have been in-
trusted to me .
",Q . Where do you conceal them?
"A . In the heart .
KEYSTONE
"Q . Have you a key to gain entrance there?
"A . Yes, Right Worshipful .
"Q . Where do you keep it?
"A . In a box of coral which opens and shuts
only with ivory keys .
"Q . Of what metal is it composed?
"A . Of none . It is a tongue obedient to
reason, which knows only how to speak well of
those of whom it s eaks in their absence as in
their presence ." 	(Reeueil Pr6cieux, p . 87 .)
All of this shows that the key as a symbol
was formerly equivalent to the modern sym-
bol of the "instructive tongue," which, how-
ever, with almost the same interpretation, has
now been transformed to the Second or Fellow-
Craft's Degree. The key, however, is still
preserved as a symbol of secrecy in the Royal
Arch Degree ; and it is also presented to us in
the same sense in the ivory key of the Secret
Master, or Fourth Degree of the Scottish Rite,
In many of the German Lodges an ivory key is
made a part of the Masonic clothing of each
brother, to remind him that he should lock up
or conceal the secrets of Freemasonry in his
heart .
But among the ancients the key was also a
symbol of power ; and thus among the Greeks
the title of KAe1SovXos, or key-bearer, was be-
stowed upon one holding high office ; and with
the Romans, the keys -are given to the bride
on the day of marriage, as a token that the
authority of the house was bestowed upon
her ; and if afterward divorced, they were
taken from her, as a symbol of the deprivation
of her office . Among the Hebrews the key was
used in the same sense . "As the robe and the
baldric," says Lowth (Is ., p . 2, s . 4), "were the
ensigns of power and authority, so likewise
was the key the mark of office, either sacred
or civil ." Thus in Isaiah it is said : "The key
of the house of David will I lay upon his
shoulders ; so he shall open, and none shall
shut ; and he shall shut, and none shall open "
(xxii . 22) . Our Savior expressed a similar
idea when he said to St . Peter, "I will give
unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven ."
It is in reference to this interpretation of the
symbol, and not that of secrecy that the key
has been adopted as the officia' jewel of the
treasurer of a Lodge, because he has the purse,
the source of power, under his command .
Key of Masonry . 	See Knight of the Sun .
Keystone . 	The stone placed in the cen-
ter of an arch which preserves the others in
their places, and secures firmness and stability
to the arch . As it was formerly the custom of
Operative Masons to place a peculiar mark on
each stone of a building to designate the work-
man by whom it had been adjusted, so the
Keystone was most likely to receive the most
prominent mark, that of the superintendent
of the structure . Such is related to have oc-
curred to that Keystone which plays so im-
portant a part in the legend of the Royal Arch
Degree .
The objection has sometimes been made
that the arch was unknown in the time of
Solomon . But this objection has been com-
pletely laid at rest by the researches of an-

KHEM
tiquaries and travelers within a few years
past . Wilkinson discovered arches with reg-
ular keystones in the doorways of the tombs
of Thebes, the construction of which he traced
to the year 1540 B .c ., or 460 years before the
building of the Temple of Solomon . And Dr .
Clark asserts that the Cyclopean gallery of
Tiryns exhibits lancet-shaped arches almost as
old as the time of Abraham . In fact at the
Solomonic era, the construction of tce arch
must have been known to the Dion sian ar-
tificers, of whom, it is the receive theory,
many were present at the building of the
Temple .
Rhem . The Egyptian Deity, Amon, in
the position metaphorically used in repre-
sentations of Buddha and by the Hermetic
philosophers, one hand toward Heaven and
the other toward Nature .
Khepra . An Egyptian Deity, presiding
over transformation, and represented with the
beetle in place of a head .
Kher-heb . 	The Master of Ceremonies in
the Egyptian system of worship .
KhesvanorChesvan . 	(31tin .) The same
Hebrew month as Marchesvan, which see .
Khetem el Nabllm . 	Mohammed, the
seal of the prophets .
Khon . 	The title given to the dead, sub-
ject to examination as depicted in ch . 125 of
the Book of the Dead in the Egyptian Ritual .
Khotbah . The Confession of Faith under
the Mohammedan law .
Khurum-Abi . 	A variation of the name of
Hiram Abi .
Kl . A word used in the old Ritual of the
Eighth Degree of the A . A . Scottish Rite .
winning . 	As the city of York claims
to be the birthplace of Masonry in England,
the obscure little village of Kilwinning is en-
titled to the same honor with respect to the
origin of the Order in the sister kingdom of
Scotland . The claim to the honor, however,
in each case, depends on the bare authority of
a legend, the authenticity of which is now
doubted by many Masonic historians . A
place, which, in itself small and wholly undis-
tinguishable in the political, the literary, or
the commercial annals of its country, has be-
come of great importance in the estimation
of the Masonic antiquary from its intimate
connection with the history of the Institution .
The Abbey of Kilwinning is situated in the
bailiwick of Cunningham, about three miles
north of the royal burgh of Irving, near the
Irish Sea . The abbey was founded in the year
1140, by Hugh Morville, Constable of Scot-
land, and dedicated to St . Winning, being in-
tended for a company of monks of the Tyro-
nesian Order, who had been brought from
Kelso . The edifice must have been constructed
at great expense, and with much magnifi-
cence, since it is said to have occupied several
acres of ground in its whole extent .
Lawrie (Hist . of Freemasonry, 1804) says
that, by authentic documents as well as by
other collateral arguments which amount al-
most to a demonstration, the existence of the
Kilwinning Lodge has been traced back as far
KILWINNING 	381
as the end of the fifteenth century . But we
know that the body of architects who pe ram-
bulated the Continent of Europe under the
name of "Traveling Freemasons," flourished
at a much earlier period ; and we learn, also,
from Lawrie himself, that several of these
Masons traveled into Scotland, about the be-
ginning of the twelfth century . Hence, we
have every reason to suppose that these
men were the architects who constructed the
Abbe at Kilwinning, and who first estab-
lishethe Institution of Freemasonry in Scot-
land . If such be the fact, we must place the
origin of the first Lodge in that kingdom at an
earlier date, by three centuries, than that
claimed for it by Lawrie, which would bring
it much nearer, in point of time, to the great
Masonic Assembly, which is traditionally said
to have been convened in the year 926, by
Prince Edwin, at York, in England .
There is some collateral evidence to sustain
the probability of this early commencement of
Masonry in Scotland . It is very generally
admitted that the Royal Order of Herodem
was founded by King Robert Bruce, at Kil-
winning . Thory, in the Acta Latomorum,
gives the following chronicle : "Robert Bruce,
King of Scotland, under the title of Robert I .,
created the Order of St . Andrew of Chardon,
after the battle of Bannockburn, which was
fought on the 24th of June, 1314 . To this
Order was afterwards united that of Herodem
for the sake of the Scotch Masons, who formed
a part of the thirty thousand troops with
whom he had fought an army of one hundred
thousand Englishmen . King Robert reserved
the title of Grand Master to himself and his
successors forever, and founded the Royal
Grand Lodge of Herodem at Kilwinning ."
Dr . Oliver says that "the Royal Order of
Herodem had formerly its chief seat at Kil-
winning ; and there is every reason to think
that it and St . John's Masonry were then gov-
erned by the same Grand Lodge ."
In 1820, there was published at Paris a rec-
ord which states that in 1286 James, Lord
Stewart, received the Earls of oloucester and
Ulster into his Lodge at Kilwinning ; which
goes to prove that a Lodge was then existing
and in active operation at that place .
The modern iconoclasts, however, who are
leveling these old legends with unsparing
hands, have here been at work . Bro . D .
Murray Lyon has attacked the Bruce legend,
and in the London Freemasons' Magazine
(1868, p . 141) says : "Seeing that the fra-
ternity of Kilwinning never at any period prac-
tised or acknowledged other than Craft de-
grees, and have not preserved even a shadow
of a tradition that can in the remotest degree
be held to identify Robert Bruce with the
holding of Masonic Courts, or the Institution
of a Secret Order at Kilwinning, the fraternity
of the 'Herodim' must be attributed to an-
other than the hero of Bannockburn, and a
birthplace must be sought for it in a soil
still more favorable to the growth of the high
grades than Scotland has hitherto proved ."
He intimates that the legend was the inven-

382 	KILWINNING
tion of the Chevalier Ramsay, whose birth-
place was in the vicinity of Kilwinning .
I confess that I look upon the legend and
the documents that contain it with some favor,
as at least furnishing the evidence that there
has been among the Fraternity a general be-
lief of the antiquity of the Kilwinning Lodge .
Those, however, whose faith is of a more
hesitating character, will find the most satis-
factory testimonies of the existence of that
Lodge in the beginni ng of the fifteenth cen-
tury. At that period, when James II . was on
the throne, the Barons of Roslin, as hereditary
Patrons of Scotch Masonry, held their annual
meetings at Kilwinning, and the Lodge at that
place granted Warrants of Constitution for
the formation of subordinate Lodges in other
parts of the kingdom . The Lodges thus
formed in token of their respect for, and sub-
mission to, the mother Lodge whence they de-
rived their existence, affixed the word Kil-
winning to their own distinctive name ; many
instances of which are still to be found on the
register of the Grand Lodge of Scotland-such
as Canongate Kilwinning, Greenock Kilwin-
ning, Cumberland Kilwinning, etc .
But, in process of time, this Grand Lodge at
Kilwinning ceased to retain its supremacy,
and finally its very existence . As in the case
of the sister kingdom, where the Grand Lodge
was removed from York, the birthplace of
Enpjish Masonry, to London, so in Scotland,
the supreme seat of the Order was at length
transferred from Kilwinning to the metropo-
lis ; and hence, in the doubtful document en-
titled the "Charter of Cologne," which pur-
ports to have been written in 1542, we find, in
a list of nineteen Grand Lodges in Europe,
that that of Scotland is mentioned as sitting
at Edinburgh, under the Grand Mastership of
John Bruce . In 1736, when the Grand Lodge
of Scotland was organized, the Kilwinning
Lodge was one of its constituent bodies, and
continued in its obedience until 1743 . In that
year it petitioned to be recognized as the
oldest Lodge in Scotland ; but as the records of
the original Lodge had been lost, the present
Lodge could not prove, says Lawrie, that it
was the identical Lodge which had first prac-
tised Freemasonry in Scotland . The peti-
tion was therefore rejected, and, in conse-
quence, the Kilwinning Lodge seceded from
the Grand Lodge and established itself as an
independent body . It organized Lodges in
Scotland ; and several instances are on record
of its issuing charters as Mother Kilwinning
Lodge to Lodges in foreign countries . Thus, it
granted one to a Lodge in Virginia in 1758,
and another in 1779 to some brethren in Ire-
land calling themselves the Lodge of High
Knights Templar . But in 1807 the Mother
Lodge of Kilwinning renounced all right of
granting charters, and came once more into
the bosom of the Grand Lodge, bringing with
her all her daughter Lodges .
Here terminates the connection of Kil-
winning as a place of any special importance
with the Masonry of Scotland . As for the
abbey, the stupendous fabric which was exe-
KING
toted by the Freemasons who first migrated
into Scotland, its history, like that of the
Lodge which they founded, is one of decline
and decay . In 1560, it was in a great measure
demolished by Alexander, Earl of Glencairne
in obedience to an Order from the States o
Scotland, in the exercise of their usurped au-
thority during the imprisonment of Mary
Stuart . A few years afterward, a part of the
abbey chapel was repaired and converted into
the parish church, and was used as such until
about the year 1775, when, in consequence of
its ruinous and dangerous state, it was pulled
down and an elegant church erected in the
modern style . In 1789, so much of the an-
cient abbey remained as to enable Grose, the
antiquary, to take a sketch of the ruins ; but
now not a vestige of the building is to be found,
nor can its exact site be ascertained with any
precision .
Kilwinning Manuscript . Also called the
Edinburgh Kilwinning . This manuscript de-
rives its name from its being written in a small
quarto book, belonging to the celebrated
"Mother Kilwinning Lodge" of Scotland .
For its publication, the Masonic Fraternity is
indebted to Bro . William James Hughan, who
has inserted it in his Unpublished Records of
the Craft, from a copy made for him from tha
original by Bro . D . Murray Lyon, of Ayr,
Scotland . Bro . Lyon, "whilst glancing at the
minutes of the Lodge of Edinburgh from De,
cember 27, 1675, till March 12, 1678 wa%
struck with the similarity which the land,
writing bore to that in which the Kilwinning 4
copy of the Narrative of the Founding of the
Craft of Masonry is written, and upon closer
examination he was convinced that in both
cases the caligraphy is the same ." (History of
the Lodge of Edinburgh, p . 107 .) It was prob .
ably written in 1665 . The Anglican phrase-
ology, and the fact that one of the charges re .
quires that Masons should be "liedgemen to
the King of England," conclusively show that
the manuscript was written in England and
introduced into Scotland . It is so much like
the text of the Grand Lodge MS ., published by
Bro . Hughan in his Old Charges of British Free-
masons, that, to use the language of Bro .
Woodford, "it would pass as au indifferent
copy of that document ."
Kilwinning, Mother Lodge . For an ac-
count of this body, which was fur some time,
the rival of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, see
Kilwinning .
Kilwinning System . 	The, Masonry prac-
tised in Scotland, so called bee .ause it is sup-
posed to have been instituted at the Abbey of
Kilwinning . Oliver uses the term in his
Mirror for the Johannite Masons (p . 120) .
(See Saint John's Masonry .)
King . The second offic. .r in a Royal Arch
Chapter in America . He ire the representa-
tive of Zerubbabel, prince or governor of
Judah . When the Chapt r meets as a Lodge
of Mark, Past, or Most Excellent Masters, the
king acts as Senior Warden .
After the rebuilding of the second Temple
the government of the Jews was administered


KING
by the high priests as the vicegerents of the
kings of Persia, to whom they paid tribute .
This is the reason that the high priest is the
presiding officer in a Chapter, and the king
only a subordinate . But m the Chapters of
England and Ireland, the king is made the
presiding officer . The jewel of the king is a
level surmounted by a crown suspended within
a triangle .
King of the Sanctuary . 	A side degree
formerly conferred in the presence of five
Past Masters, now in disuse .
King of the World . A degree in the sys-
tem of the Philosophical Rite .
Kings, The Five . 	The sacred code of the
older Chinese . The word king signifies web
of cloth, or the warp that keeps the threads in
position, or upon which we may weave the
somber and golden colors that make up this
life's pictured history . This great light in
Chinese secret societies contains the best say-
ings of the best sages on the ethico-political
duties of life . They cannot be traced to a
period beyond the tenth century B .c ., al-
though the religion is believed to be older .
Some of the superior classes of Chinese are
believers in the great philosopher Lao-tse, and
others in the doctrines of Confucius . The
two religions appear to be twin in age, not
strikingly dissimilar, and each has been given
a personality in color in accordance with the
character of ethics believed in by the two
writers . Lao-tse and Confucius were the re-
vivers of an older religion, the former of whom
was born 604 B .c ., and the latter fifty-four
years subsequently .
The five kings are, the Yih-King, or Book of
Changes ; the Shi-King, or Book of Songs ;
the Shu-King, or Book of Annals ; the Ch'un
Ts'iu, or "Spring and Autumn" ; and the Li-
King, or Book of Rites . The fourth book was
composed by Confucius himself, while the
first three are supposed to have been compiled
by him, and the fifth by his disciples from his
teachings .
Dr . Legge, late Professor of Chinese at Ox-
ford, England, and Dr . Medhurst assert that
there are no authentic records in China earlier
than 1100 B .c ., and no alphabetical writing
before 1500 B .c .
The grandeur of the utterances and bril-
liancy of the intellectual productions of Con-
fucius and Mencius, as law-givers and ex-
pounders of the sacred code of the Chinese,
called The Five Kings, are much to be ad-
mired, and are the trestle-board of fully
80,000,000 of the earth's po,Pulation .
Kislev or Chislev . 	(177 .) 	The third
month of the Hebrew civil year, and corre-
sponding with the months November and
December, beginning with the new moon of
the former .
Kiss, Fraternal . 	The Germans call it der
bruder kuss ; the French, le baiser fraternal .
It is the kiss given in the French and German
Lodges by each brother to his right and left
hand neighbor when the labors of the Lodge
are closed . It is not adopted in the English
or American systems of Ancient Craft Ma-
KNEE 	383
sonry, although practised in some of the high
degrees .
Kiss of Peace . 	In the reception of an An-
cient Knight Templar, it was the practise for
the one who received him to greet him with a
kiss upon the mouth . This, which was called
the osculum pacis, or kiss of peace, was bor-
rowed by the Templars from the religious or-
ders, in all of which it was observed . It is
not practised in the receptions of Masonic
Templarism .
Kloss, Georg Burkh . Franz . 	A cele-
brated German Masonand Doctorof Medicine
who was born in 1788 . Dr . Kloss was initiated
into Masonry early in life . He reorganized the
Eclectic Grand Lodge, of which he was sev-
eral times Grand Master . 	He resided at
Frankfort-on-the-Main, where he enjoyed a
high reputation as a physician . He was the
possessor of an extensive Masonic library, and
devoted himself to the study of the antiquities
and true character of the Masonic institution,
insomuch that he was styled the "teacher of
the German Freemasons ." Kloss'a theory was
that the present Order of Freemasons found
its origin in the stone-cutters and building
corporations of the Middle Ages . He deliv-
ered, in the course of his life, many valuable
historical discourses before the Lodge Zur
Einigheit, several of which were printed and
published : Annals of the Lodge Zur Einig-
heit, Frankfort, 1840 ; Freemasonry in its true
meaning, from the ancient and genuine docu-
ments of the Stonemasons, Leipsic, 1846 ; 	A
History of Freemasonry in England, Scotland,
and Ireland, Leipsic, 1848 ; A History of the
Freemasons of France, from genuine documents,
Darmstadt, 1852 ; and a Bibliography of Free-
masonry, Frankfort, 1844 . This last is a
most valuable contribution to Masonic litera-
ture . It contains a list of more than six
thousand Masonic works in all languages,
with critical remarks on many of them . Dr .
Kloss died at Frankfort, February 10, 1854 .
Bro . Meisinger, who delivered his funeral
eulogy, said of him : "He had a rare amount
of learning, and was a distinguished linguist ;
his reputation as a physician was deservedly
great ; and he added to these a friendly, tender
amiable disposition, with great simplicity and
uprightness of character ."
Kneeling . Bending the knees has, in all
ages of the world, been considered as an act
of reverence and humility, and hence Pliny,
the Roman naturalist, observes, that "a cer-
tain degree of religious reverence is attributed
to the knees of man ." Solomon placed himself
in this position when he prayed at. the conse-
cration of the Temple ; and Masons use the
same posture in some portions of their cere-
monies, as a token of solemn reverence . In
the act of prayer, Masons in the lower degrees
adopt the standing posture, which was the
usage of the primitive Church, where it was
symbolic of the resurrection ; but Masons in
the higher . degrees generally kneel on one
knee .
Knee to Knee . 	When, in his devotions to
the G . A . O . T . U ., he seeks forgiveness for the

384 	KNEWT-NEB-S
past and strength for the future, the Mason is
taught that he should, in these offices of devo-
tion, join his brother's name with his own .
The prerogative that Job, in his blindness,
thought was denied to him, when he exclaimed,
"Oh that one might plead for a man with God,
as a man pleadeth for his neighbor!" is here
not only taught as a right, but inculcated as a
duty ; and the knee is directed to be bent in
intercession, not for ourselves alone, but for
the whole household of our brethren .
Knewt-neb-s . The Egyptian goddess per-
sonifying the West, facing the East .
Knife and Fork Degree . 	Those Masons
who take more delight in the refreshments of
the banquet than in the labors of the Lodge,
and who admire Masonry only for its social as-
pect, are ironically said to be "Members of
the Knife and Fork Degree ."
The sarcasm was first uttered by Dermott,
when he said in his Ahiman Rezon (p . 36),
speaking of the Moderns, that "it was also
thought expedient to abolish the old custom of
studying geometry in the Lodge ; and some of
the young brethren made it appear that a good
knife and fork in the hands of a dexterous
brother, over proper materials, would give
greater satisfaction and add more to the ro-
tundity of the Lodge than the best scale and
compass in Europe .
Knigge, Adolph Franz Friederich Lud-
wig, Baron von . 	He was at one time among
the most distinguished Masons of Germany ;
for while Weishaupt was the ostensible in-
ventor and leader of the system of Bavarian
Illnminism, it was indebted for its real form
and organization to the inventive genius of
Knigge . He was born at Brendenbeck, near
Hanover, October 16, 1752 . 	He was initi-
ated, January 20, 1772, in a Lodge of Strict
Observance at Cassel, but does not appear at
first to have been much impressed with the
Institution, for, in a letter to Prince Charles
of Hesse, he calls its ceremonies "absurd, jug-
gling tricks ." Subsequently his views became
changed, at least for a time . 	When, in 1780,
the Marquis de Costanzo was despatched by
Weishaupt to Northern Germany to props,
gate the Order of the Illuminati, he made the
acquaintance of Knigge, and succeeded in
gaining him as a disciple . 	Knigge afterward
entered into a correspondence with Weishaupt,
in consequence of which his enthusiasm was
greatly increased . After some time, in reply
to the urgent entreaties of Knigge for more
light, Weishaupt confessed that the Order was
as yet in an unfinished state, and actually ex-
isted only in his own brain ; the lower classes
alone having been organized . 	Recognizing
Knigge's abilities, he invited him to Bavaria,
and promised to surrender to him all the man-
uscript materials in his possession, that
Knigge might out of them, assisted by his own
invention, construct the high degrees of the
Rite .
Knigge accordingly repaired to Bavaria in
1781, and when he met Weishaupt, the latter
consented that Knigge should elaborate the
whole system up to the highest mysteries .
KNIGHTHOOD
This task Knigge accomplished, and en-
tered into correspondence with the Lodges,
exerting all his talents, which were of no mean
order, for the advancement of the Rite . 	He
brought to its aid the invaluable labors of
Bode, whom he prevailed upon to receive the
degrees .
After Knigge had fully elaborated the sys-
tem, and secured for it the approval of the
Areopagites, he introduced it into his district,
and began to labor with every prospect of
success . But Weishaupt now interfered ; and,
notwithstanding his compact with Knigge, he
made many alterations and additions which
he imperiously ordered the Provincial Direc-
tors to insert in the ritual . 	Knigge, becoming
disgusted with this proceeding, withdrew from
the Order and soon afterward entirely from
Freemasonry, devoting the rest of his life to
general literature . 	He died at Bremen, May
6, 1796 .
Knigge was a man of considerable talents,
and the author of many books, both Masonic
and non-Masonic . 	Of these the following are
the most important . 	A work published anon-
ymously in 1781, entitled Ueber Jesuiten,
Freimaureren and deutsche Rosenkreuzer, i . e .,
"On the Jesuits, Freemasons and Rosicru-
eians" ; Versuch caber die Freimaurerei, i . e .,
"Essay on Freemasonry," in 1784 ; Beytrag
zur neuesten Geschiehte des Freimaurerordens,
i . e ., "Contribution towards the latest His-
tory of the Order of Freemasons," in 1786 ;
and, after he had retired from the Illuminati,
a work entitled Philo's endliche Erklarung, or
"Philo's final Declaration," 1788, which pro-
fessed to be his answer to the numerous in-
quiries made of him in reference to his con-
nection with the Order .
Among his most popular non-Masonic
works was a treatise on Social Philosophy,
with the title of Ueber den Umgang mit Men-
schen, or, 	"On Conversation with Men ."
This work, which was written toward the close
of his life, was very favorablyreceived through-
out Germany, 	and translated into man
languages . Although abounding in many
mirable remarks on the various relations and
duties of life, to the Mason it will be partic-
ularly interesting as furnishing a proof of the
instability of the author's opinions, for, with
all his abilities, Knigge evidently lacked a
well-balanced judgment . 	Commencing life
with an enthusiastic admiration for Freema-
sonry, in a few years he became disgusted with
it ; no long time elapsed before he was found
one of its most zealous apostles ; and again re-
tiring from the Order he spent his last days in
writing against it . 	In his Conversation with
Men, is a long chapter on Secret Societies, in
which he is scarcely less denunciatory of them
than Barruel or Robison .
Knighthood . 	The Saxon word cniht,
from which we get the English knight, signi-
fied at first a youth, and then a servant, or one
who did domestic service, or a soldier who did
military service, which might either be on foot
or on horseback ; but the French word cheva-
lier and the German ritter both refer to his

KNIGHTHOOD
equestrian character . 	Although Tacitus says'
that the German kings and chiefs were at-
tended in war and peace by a select body of
faithful servants, and although the Anglo-
Saxon kings and thanes had their military at-
tendants, who served them with a personal
fealty, the knight, in the modern acceptation
of the word, did not appear until the estab-
lishment in France of the order of chivalry .
Thence knighthood rapidly passed into the
other countries of Christendom ; for it always
was a Christian institution .
The st ag es through which a candidate
passed until his full investiture with the rank
of knighthood were three : the Page, the
Squire or Esquire, and the Knight .
1 . The Page . 	The child who was destined
to knighthood continued until he was seven
y ears old in the charge of women, who gave
him that care which his tender age required .
He was then taken from them and placed in
the hands of a governor, who prepared him by
a robust and manly education for the labors
and dangers of war . 	He was afterward put
into the household of some noble, where he
first assumed the title of a Page . His employ-
ments were to perform the service of a do-
mestic about the person of his master and mis-
tress ; to attend them in the chase, on their
journeys, their visits, and their walks ; to
carry their messages, or even to wait on them
at table . 	The first lessons given to him were
in the love of God and attachment to and
respect for females . 	His religious education
was not neglected, and he was taught a ven-
eration for all sacred things . His instructions
in respect to manners, conversation, and vir-
tuous habits were all intended to prepare him
for his future condition as a knight .
2 . The Squire . The youth, on emerging
from the employment of a Pa g e, took on him
that of Squire, called in French ecuyer . 	This
promotion was not unaccompanied by an ap-
p ropriate ceremony . 	The Page who was to
be made a Squire was presented to the altar
by his father and mother, or by those who rep-
resented them, each holding a lighted taper in
his hand . 	The officiating priest took from the
altar a sword and belt, on which he bestowed
several benedictions, and then placed them on
the youth, who from that time constantly
wore them . 	The Squires were divided into
various classes, each of whose employment
was different . To some, as to the chamber-
lains, was committed the care of the gold and
silver of the household ; others, as the con-
stable, had the charge of the table utensils ;
others were carvers, and others butlers . But
the most honorable and the only one con-
nected immediately with chivalry was the
squire of Honor or the Body Squire . 	He was
immediately attached to some knight, whose
standard he carried . 	He helped to dress and
undress him, and attended him morning and
evening in his apartment . 	On a march, he
led the war-horse of his master and carried his
sword, his helmet, and his shield . 	In the
hour of battle, the Squire, although he did not
actually take a part in the combat, was not
KNIGHTHOOD 	385
altogether an idle spectator of the contest . In
the shock of battle, the two lines of knights,
with their lances in rest, fell impetuously on
each other ; some, who were thrown from their
horses, drew their swords or battle-axes to de-
fend themselves and to make new attacks,
while advantage was sought by their enemies
over those who had been thrown . During all
this time, the Squire was attentive to every
motion of his master . In the one case, to give
him new arms, or to supply him with another
horse ; to raise him up when he fell, and to
ward off the strokes aimed at him ; while in
the other case, he seconded the knight by every
means that his skill, his valor, and his zeal
could suggest, always, however, within the
strict bounds of the defensive, for the Squire
was not permitted by the laws of chivalry to
engage in offensive combat with a knight .
3 . The 	Knight . 	These services merited
and generall y received from the knight the
most grateful acknowledgment, and in time
the high honor of the bad g e of knighthood be-
stowed by his own hand, for every knight
possessed the prerogative of making other
knights .
The age of twenty-one was that in which
the youthful Squire, after so many proofs of
zeal, fidelity, and valor, might be admitted to
the honor of knighthood . 	The rule as to age
was not, however, always observed . 	Some-
times the Squire was not knighted until he
was further advanced in years, and in the case
of princes the time was often anticipated .
There are instances of infants, the sons of
kings, receiving the dignity of knighthood .
The creation of a knight was accompanied
by solemn ceremonies, which some writers
have been pleased to compare to those of the
Church in the administration of its sacra-
ments, and there was, if not a close resem-
blance, a manifest allusion in the one to the
other . 	The white habit and the bath of the
knight corresponded to the form of baptism ;
the stroke on the neck and the embrace given
to the new knight were compared to the cere-
mony of confirmation ; and as the godfather
made a present to the child whom he held at
the font, so the lord who conferred knighthood
was expected to make a gift or grant some
peculiar favor to the knight whom he had
dubbed .
The preliminary ceremonies which prepared
the neophyte for the sword of chivalry were
as follows : austere fasts ; whole nights passed
in prayers in a church or chapel ; the sacra-
ments of confession, penance, and the eucha-
rist ; bathings, which prefigured purity of
manners and life ; a white habit as a symbol
of the same purity, and in imitation of the
custom with new converts on their admission
into the Church, and a serious attention to
sermons, were all duties of preparation to be
devoutly performed by the Squire previous
to his being armed with the weapons and dec-
orated with the honors of knighthood .
An old French chronicler thus succinctly
details the ceremony of creation and investi-
ture . 	The neophyte bathes ; after which,

I
386 	KNIGHTHOOD
clothed in white apparel, he is to watch all
night in the church, and remain there in
prayer until after the celebration of high mass .
The communion being then received, the
youth solemnly raises his joined hands and his
eyes to heaven, when the priest who had ad-
ministered the sacrament passes the sword
over the neck of the youth and blesses it .
The candidate then kneels at the feet of the
lord or knight who is to arm him . The lord
asks him with what intent he desires to enter
into that sacred Order, and if his views tend
only to the maintenance and honor of religion
and of knighthood . 	The lord, having re-
ceived from the candidate a satisfactory reply
to these questions, administers the oath of
reception, and gives him three strokes on the
neck with the flat side of the sword, which he
then girds upon him . This scene passes some-
times in a hall or in the court of a palace, or, in
time of war, in the open field .
The girding on of the sword was accom-
panied with these or similar words : "In the
name of God, of St . Michael, and of St . George
I make thee a knight : be brave, be hardy, and
be loyal ." 	And then the kneeling candidate
is struck upon the shoulder or back of the
neck by him who confers the digruty, with
the flat of the sword, and directed to rise in
words like these : "Arise, Sir Damian " ; a
formula still followed by the sovereigns of
England when they confer the honor of
knighthood . And hence the word "Sir,"
which is equivalent to the old French "Sire,"
is accounted, says Ashmole, "parcel of their
style ."
Sir William Segar, in his treatise on Civil
and Military Honor, gives the following ac-
count of the ceremonies used in England in the
sixth century :
"A stage was erected in some cathedral, or
spacious place near it, to which the gentleman
was conducted to receive the honor of knight-
hood . 	Being seated on a chair decorated
with green silk, it was demanded of him if he
were of a good constitution, and able to un-
dergo the fatigue required in a soldier ; also
whether he were a man of good morals, and
what credible witnesses he could produce to
affirm the same .
"Then the Bishop or Chief Prelate of the
Church administered 	the following oath :
`Sir, you that desire to receive the honor of
knighthood, swear before God and this holy book
that you will not fight against his Majesty, that
now bestoweth the order of knighthood upon you .
You shall also swear to maintain and defend
all Ladies, Gentlemen, Widows and Orphans ;
and you shall shun no adventure of your person
in any war wherein you shall happen to be .'
"Te oath being taken, two Lords led him
to the King, who drew his sword, and laid it
upon his head, saying, God and St . George (or
what other saint the King pleased to name,)
make thee a good knight ; after which seven
Ladies dressed in white came and girt a sword
to his side and four knights put on his spurs .
"These ceremonies being over the Queen
took him by the right hand, and a Duchess
KNIGHTHOOD
by the left, and leading him to a rich seat
placed him on an ascent where they seated
m, the King sitting on Lis right hand, and
the Queen on his left .
"Then the Lords and Ladies also sat down
upon other seats, three descents under the
King ; and being all thus seated, they were en-
tertained with a delicate collation ; and so the
ceremony ended ."
The manner of arming a newly made knight
was first to put on the spurs, then the coat of
mail, the cuirass, the brasset or casque, and
the gauntlets . 	The lord or knight conferring
the honor then girded on the sword, which
last was considered as the most honorable
badge of chivalry, and a symbol of the labor
that the knight was in future to encounter .
It was in fact deemed the real and essential
part of the ceremony, and that which actually
constituted the knight . 	Du Cange, in his
Glossarium, defines the Latin word militare,
in its medieval sense, as signifying "to make a
knight," which was, he says, "balteo militari
accingere," i . e ., to gird on him the knightly
belt; and it is worthy of remark, that cingulus,
which in ure Latin signifies a belt, came in
the later Latin of Justinian to denote the mili-
tary profession . I need not refer to the common
expression, "a belted knight," as indicating
the close connection between knighthood and
the girding of the belt . 	It was indeed the
belt and sword that made the knight .
The oath taken by the knight at his recep-
tion devoted him to the defense of religion and
the Church, and to the protection of widows,
orphans, and all of either sex who were power-
less, unhappy, or suffering under injustice
and oppression ; and to shrink from the per-
formance of these duties whenever called
upon, even at the sacrifice of his life, was to
incur dishonor for the rest of his days .
Of all the laws of chivalry, none was main-
tained with more rigor than that which se-
cured respect for the female sex . "If an hon-
est and virtuous lady," says Brantome, "will
maintain her firmness and constancy, her
servant that is to say, the knight who had
devoted himself to her service, must not even
spare his life to protect and defend her, if she
runs the least risk either of her fortune, or her
honor or of any censorious word, for we are
bound by the laws of Chivalry to be the cham-
pions of women's afflictions ."
Nor did any human law insist with so much
force as that of chivalry upon the necessity of
an inviolable attachment to truth . 	Adher-
ence to his word was esteemed the most hon-
orable part of a knight's character . Hence to
give the lie was considered the most mortal
and irreparable affront, to be expiated only by
blood .
An oath or solemn promise given in the
name of a knight was of all oaths the most
inviolable . 	Knights taken in battle engaged
to come of their own accord to prison when-
ever it was required by their captors, and on
their word of honor they were readily allowed
liberty for the time for which they asked it ;
for no one ever doubted that they would ful-

KNIGHTHOOD
fil their engagements . Sovereigns considered
their oath of knighthood as the most solemn
that they could give, and hence the Duke of
Bretagne, having made a treaty of peace with
Charles VI . of France, swore to its ob-
servance "by the faith of his body and the
loyalty of his knighthood ."
It is scarcely necessary to say that gener-
ous courage was an indispensable quality of a
knight . An act of cowardice, of cruelty, or
of dishonorable warfare in battle, would over-
whelm the doer with deserved infamy . In
one of the tenzones, or poetical contests of the
Troubadours, it is said that to form a perfect
knight all the tender offices of humanity
should be united to the greatest valor, and
pity and generosity to the conquered associ-
ated with the strictest justice and integrity .
Whatever was contrary to the laws of war was
inconsistent with the laws of chivalry .
The laws of chivalry also enforced with pe-
culiar impressiveness sweetness and modesty
of temper, with that politeness of demeanor
which the word courtesy was meant perfectly
to axp ress . An uncourteous knight would
have been an anomaly .
Almost all of these knightly qualities are
well expressed by Chaucer in the Prologue to
his Knight's Tale (1 . 43-50 ; 67-72) :
"A knight there was, and that a worthy man,
That from the time that he first began
To riden out he loved chivalry,
Truth and honor, freedom and courtesy .
Full worthy was he in his lord's war
And thereto had he ridden, no man farther ;
As well in Christendom as in Heatheness,
And ever honored for his worthiness .
"And ever more he had a sovereign price,
And though that he was worthy, he was wise
And of his port as meek as is a maid .
He never yet no villainy not said
In all his life unto no manner wight,
He was a very perfect, gentle knight .",
The most common and frequent occasions
on which knights were created, independent
of those which happened in war, were at the
great feasts of the Church, and especially at
the feast of Pentecost ; also at the publica-
tions of peace or a truce, the coronations of
kings, the birth or baptism of princes, and the
days on which those princes had themselves
received knighthood . But a knight could at
any time confer the distinction on one whom
he deemed deserving of it .
There was a distinction between the titles
as well as the dress of a knight and a squire .
The knight was called Don, Sire, Messire, or,
in English, Sir-a title not bestowed upon a
squire : and while the wife of the former was
called a Lady, that of the latter was only a
Gentlewoman . The wife of a knight was
sometimes called Militissa, or female knight .
In their dresses and their harness, knights
were entitled to wear gold and golden decora-
tions, while the squires were confined to the
use of silver . Knights alone had a right to
wear, for the lining of their cloaks and man-
tles, ermine, sable, and meniver, which were
KNIGHTHOOD 	3 87
the most valuable furs ; while those of a less
costly kind were for the squires . The long and
trailing mantle, of a scarlet color, and lined
with ermine or other precious furs, which was
called the Mantle of Honor, was especially re-
served for the knight . Such a mantle was al-
ways presented by the kings of France to
knights whom they created . The mantle was
considered the most august and noble decora-
tion that a knight could wear, when he was not
dressed in his armor . The official robes still
worn by many magistrates in Europe are de-
rived from the knightly Mantle of Honor .
It should be remarked that the order of
knighthood, and the ceremonies accompany-
ing the investiture of a knight, were of a sym-
bolic character, and are well calculated to re-
mind the Freemason of the symbolic character
of his own Institution .
The sword which the knight received was
called "the arms of mercy," and he was told
to conquer his enemies by mercy rather than
by force of arms . Its blade was two-edged, to
remind him that he must maintain chivalry
and justice, and contend only for the support
of these two chief pillars of the temple of honor .
The lance represented Truth, because truth,
like the lance, is straight . The coat of mail was
the symbol of a fortress erected against vice ;
for, as castles are surrounded by walls and
ditches, the coat of mail is closed in all its
parts, and defends the knight against treason,
disloyalty, pride, and every other evil passion .
The rowels of the spur were given to urge the
possessor on to deeds of honor and virtue .
The shield, which he places betwixt himself
and his enemy, was to remind him that the
knight is a shield interposed between the
prince and the people, to preserve peace and
tranquillity .
In a Latin manuscript of the thirteenth
century, copied by Anstis (App ., p . 95), . will
be found the following symbolical explana-
tion of the ceremonial of knighthood . The
bath was a symbol of the washing away of sin
by the sacrament of baptism . The bed into
which the novice entered and reposed after
the bath, was a symbol of the peace of mind
which would be acquired by the virtue of chiv-
alry . The white garments with which he was
afterward clothed, were a symbol of the pur-
ity which a knight should maintain . The
scarlet robe put on the newly made knight
was symbolic of the blood which he should be
ready to shed for Christ and the Church . The
dark boots are a sign of the earth, whence we
all came, and to which we are all to return .
The white belt is a symbol of chastity . The
golden spur symbolizes promptitude of action .
The sword is a symbol of severity against the
attacks of Satan ; its two edges are to teach
the knight that he is to defend the poor
against the, rich, and the weak against the
powerful . The white fillet around the head is
a symbol of good works . The slaps, or blow
was in memorial of him who made him a
knight .
There was one usage of knighthood which is
peculiarly worthy of attention . The love of

388 	KNIGHTHOOD
glory, which was so inspiring to the knights of
chivalry, is apt to produce a spirit of rivalry
and emulation that might elsewhere prove the
fruitful source of division and discord . But
this was prevented by the fraternities of arms
so common among the knights . Two knights
who had, perhaps, been engaged in the same
expeditions, and had conceived for each other
a mutual esteem and confidence, would enter
into a solemn compact by which they became
and were called "Brothers in arms ." 	Under
this compact, they swore to share equally the
labors and the glory, the dangers and the
profits of all enterprises, and never, under any
circumstances, to abandon each other . The
brother in arms was to be the enemy of those
who were the enemies of his brother, and the
friend of those who were his friends ; both of
them were to divide their present and future
wealth, and to employ that and their lives for
the deliverance of each other if taken prisoner .
The claims of a brother in arms were para-
mount to all others, except those of the sover-
eign . If the services of a knight were de-
manded at the same time by a lady and by a
brother in arms, the claim of the former gave
way to that of the latter . But the duty which
was owing to the prince or to the country was
preferred to all others, and hence brothers in
arms of different nations were only united to-
gether so long as their respective sovereigns
were at peace, and a declaration of war be-
tween two princes dissolved all such confra-
ternities between the subjects of each . 	But
except in this particular case, the bond of
brotherhood was indissoluble, and a violation
of the oath which bound two brothers to-
gether was deemed an act of the greatest in-
famy . 	They could not challenge each other .
They even wore in battle the same habits and
armor, as if they desired that the enemy
should mistake one for the other, and thus
that both might incur an equal risk of the
dangers with which each was threatened .
Knights were divided into two ranks,
namely, Knights Bachelors and Knights Ban-
nerets .
The Knight BaBachelor was of the lower rank,
and derived his title most probably from the
French bas chevalier . In the days of chivalry,
as well as in later times, this dignity was con-
ferred without any reference to a qualification
of property . 	Many Knights Bachelors were
in fact mere adventurers, unconnected by
feudal ties of any sort, who offered their serv-
ices in war to any successful leader, and
found in their sword a means of subsistence,
not only by pay and plunder, but in the regu-
larly established system of ransom, which
every knight taken in action paid for his lib-
erty . The Knight Bachelor bore instead of a
square banner a pointed or triangular ensign,
which was forked by being extended in two
comets or points, and which was called a pen-
non . The triangular banner, not forked, was
called a pennoncel, and was carried by a
squire .
The Knight Banneret, a name derived from
banneret, a little banner, was one who pos-
KNIGHTHOOD
sessed many fiefs, and who was obliged to
serve in war with a large attendance of follow-
ers .
If a knight was rich and powerful enough
to furnish the state or his sovereign with a
certain number of armed men, and to enter-
tain them at his own expense, permission was
accorded to him to add to his simple designa-
tion of Knight or Knight Bachelor, the more
noble and exalted title of Knight Banneret .
This gave him the right to carry a square ban-
ner on the top of his lance . Knights Bache-
lors were sometimes made Bannerets on the
field of battle, and as a reward of their prowess,
by the simple ceremony of the sovereign cut-
ting off with his sword the cornets or points of
their pennons, thus transforming them into
square banners . 	Clark, in his History of
Knighthood (vol . i ., p . 73), thus describes this
ceremony in detail :
"The king or his general at the head of his
army drawn up in order of battle after a vic-
tory, under the royal standard displayed, at-
tended by all the officers and nobility present,
receives the knight led between two knights
carrying his pennon of arms in his hand, the
heralds walking before him, who proclaim his
valiant achievements for which he has de-
served to be made a Knight Banneret, and to
display his banner in the field ; then the king
or general says to him, Advancez toy banneret,
and causes the point of his pennon to be rent
off ; then the new knight, having the trumpets
before him sounding, the nobility and officers
bearing him company, is sent back to his tent,
where they are all entertained ."
But generally the same ceremonial was used
in times of peace at the making of a Knight
Banneret as at the institution of barons, vis-
counts, earls, and the other orders of nobility,
with whom they claimed an almost equality
of rank .
Not long after the institution of knighthood
as an offshot of chivalry, we find, besides the
individual Knights Bachelors and Knights
Bannerets, associations of knights banded to-
gether for some common purpose, of which
there were two classes . 	First : Fraternities
possessing property and rights of their own as
independent bodies into which knights were
admitted as monks were into religious founda-
tions . 	Of this class may be mentioned, as
examples, the three great religious Orders-
the Templars, the Hospitalers, and the Teu-
tonic Knights .
The second class consisted of honorary as-
sociations established by sovereigns within
their respective dominions, consisting of mem-
bers whose only common tie is the possession
of the same titular distinction . Such are most
of the European orders of knighthood now ex-
isting, as the Knights of the Garter in Eng-
land, the Knights of St . Andrew in Russia, and
the Knights of the Golden Fleece in Spain .
The institution of these titular orders of
knighthood dates at a much more recent
period than that of the Fraternities who con-
stitute the first class, for not one of them can
trace its birth to the time of the Crusades, at

KNIGHTHOOD
which time the Templars and similar orders
sprang into existence .
Ragon, in his Cours Philosophique, attempts
to draw a parallel between the institution of
knighthood and that of Freemasonry, such as
that there were three degrees in one as there
are in the other, and that there was a close
resemblance in the ceremonies of initiation
into both orders . He thus intimates for them
a common origin ; but these parallels should
rather be considered simply as coincidences .
The theory first advanced by the Chevalier
Ramsay and adopted by Hund and the dis-
ciples of the Rite of Strict Observance, that
all Freemasons are Templars, and that Free-
masonry is a lineal successor of ancient knight-
hood, is now rejected as wholly untenable and
unsupported by any authentic history . 	The
only connection between knighthood and
Freemasonry is that which was instituted
after the martyrdom of James de Molay, when
the Knights Templar sought concealment and
security in the bosom of the Masonic Frater-
nity .
F
When one was made a knight, he was said
to be dubbed . 	This is a word in constant use
in the Medieval manuscripts . 	In the old
Patavian statutes, 	"Miles 	adobatus," 	a
dubbed knight, is defined to be "one who, by
the usual ceremonies, acuires the dignity
and profession of chivalry ." The Provengal
writers constantly employ the term to dub,
"adouber," and designate a knight who has
one through the ceremony of investiture as
`un chevalier adoube," 	a dubbed knight .
Thus, in the Romaunt d'Auberi, the Lady
d'Auberi says to the king :
"Sire, dit elle, par Dieu de Paradis
Soit adouber mes fibres auberis ."
That is, "Sire, for the love of the God of
Paradise, let my brothers be dubbed ."
The meaning of the word then is plain : to
dub, is to make or create a knight . 	But its
derivation is not so easily settled amid the
conflicting views of writers on the subject .
The derivation by Menage from duplex is
not worth consideration . 	Henschell's, from a
Provengal word adobare, "toe quip," although
better, is scarcely tenable . 	The derivation
from the Anglo-Saxon dubban, "to strike or
give a blow," would be reasonable, were it not
presumable that the Anglo-Saxons borrowed
their word from the French and from the us-
ages of chivalry . 	It is more likely that dub-
ban came from adouber, than that adouber
came from dubban . 	The Anglo-Saxons took
their forms and technicalities of chivalry from
the French . 	After all, the derivation pro-
posed by Du Cange is the most plausible and
the one most generally adopted, because it is
supported by the best authorities . 	He says
that it is derived from the Latin adoptare, to
adopt, "quod qui aliquem armis instruit ac
Mihtem facit, eum quodammodo adoptat in
filium," i . e ., "He who equips any one with
arms, and makes him a knight, adopts him, as
it were, as a son ." To dub one as a knight is,
then, to adopt him into the order of chivalry .
KNIGHTHOOD 	3 8 9
The idea was evidently taken from the Roman
law of adoptatio, or adoption, where, as in con-
ferring knighthood, a blow on the cheek was
given .
The word accolade is another term of chiv-
alry about which there is much misunder-
standing . 	It is now supposed to mean the
blow of the sword, given by the knight con-
ferring the dignity, on the neck or shoulder of
him who received it . But this is most probably
an error . 	The word is derived, says Brewer
(Dict . Phr . and Fab .) from the Latin ad col-
lum, "around the necI " and signifies the em-
brace "given by the Orand Master when he
receives a neophyte or new convert ." It was
an early custom to confer an embrace and the
kiss of peace upon the newly made knight
which ceremony, Ashmole thinks, was called
the accolade . Thus, in his History of the Order
of the Garter (p . 15), he says : "The first Chris-
tian kings, at giving the belt, kissed the new
knight on the left cheek, saying : In the honor
of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, I
make you a knight . 	It was called the osculum
pads, the kiss of favor or of brotherhood
[more correctly the kiss of peace], and is pre-
sumed to be the accolade or ceremony of em-
bracing, which Charles the Great used when
he knighted his son Louis the DE ;bonnair ."
In the book of Johan de Vignay, which was
written in the fourteenth century, this kiss of
peace is mentioned together with the accolade :
"Et le Seigneur leur doit dormer une collie en
signe de proeste et de hardement, et que it
leur souveigne de celui noble homme qui la
fait chevalier . Et done lee doit le Seigneur
baisier en la bouche en signe de paix et
d'amour" ; i . e ., "And the lord ought to give
him [the newly-made knight] an accolade as a
symbol of readiness and boldness, and in mem-
ory of the nobleman who has made him a
knight ; and then the lord ought to kiss him
on the mouth as a sign of peace and love ."
In an old manuscript in the Cottonian Li-
brary, entitled "The manner of makynge
Knyghtes after the custome of Engelande,"
His-
=Y
copy of which is inserted in Anstis's His-
torical Essay on the Knighthood of the Bath
(Append ., p . 99), is this account of the em-
brace and kiss, accompanied with a blow on
the neck : "Thanne shall the Squyere lift up
his armes on high, and the Kynge shall put
his armes about the nekke of the Squyer, and
lyftynge up his right hande he shall smyte the
Squyer in the nekke, seyeng thus : Be ye a
good Knyhte ; kissing him ." Anstis himself is
quite confused in his description of the cere-
monial, and enumerates "the blow upon the
neck, the accolade, with the embracing and
kiss of peace," as if they were distinct and sep-
arate ceremonies ; but in another part of his
book he calls the accolade "the laying hands
upon the shoulders ." I am inclined to believe,
after much research, that both the blow on
the neck and the embrace constituted prop-
erly the accolade . 	This blow was sometimes
given with the hand, but sometimes with the
sword . 	Anstis says that "the action which
fully and finally impresses the character of

390 	KNIGHTHOOD
kn ighthood is the blow given with the hand
upon the neck or shoulder ." But he admits
that there has been a controversy among
writers whether the blow was heretofore given
with a sword or by the bare hand upon the
neck (p . 73) .
The mystical signification which Caseneuve
gives in his Etymologies (voc . Accollee) is in-
genious and appropriate, namely, that the
blow was given on the neck to remind him who
received it that he ought never, by flight from
battle, to give an enemy the opportunity of
striking him on the same place .
t
But there was another blow, which was
given in the earliest times of chivalry, and
which has by some writers been confounded
with the accolade, which at length came to
be substituted for it . This was the blow on
he cheek, or, in common language
k
the box
on the ear, which was given to a night at
his investiture . This blow is never called
the accolade by the old writers, but gener-
ally the alapa, rarely the gautada . Du Cange
says that this blow was sometimes given on
the neck, and that then it was called the
colaphus, or by the French colic, from col,
the neck . Duchesne says the blow was al-
ways given with the hand, and not with the
sword .
Ashmole says : "It was in the time of
Charles the Great the way of knighting by
the colaphum, or blow on the ear, used in sign
of sustaining future hardships, . . . a custom
long after retained in Germany and France .
Thus William, Earl of Holland, who was to be
knighted before he could be emperor, at his
being elected king of the Romans, received
knighthood by the box of the ear, etc ., from
John, king of Bohemia, A . D . 1247 ."
Both the word alapa and the ceremony
which it indicated were derived from the form
of manumission among the Romans, where
the slave on being freed received a blow called
alapa on the cheek, characterized by Claudian
as " felix injuria," a happy injury, to remind
him that it was the last blow he was compelled
to submit to : for thenceforth he was to be
a freeman, capable of vindicating his honor
from insult . The alapa, in conferring knight-
hood, was employed with a similar symbolism .
Thus in an old register of 1260, which gives an
account of the knighting of Hildebrand by the
Lord Ridolfonis, we find this passage, which
I give in the original, for the sake of the one
word gautata, which is unusual : "Postea
Ridolfonus de more dedit illi gautatam et
dixit illi . Tu es miles nobilis milithe eques-
tris, et hint gautata est in recordationem, illius
qui to armavit militem, et hcec gautata debet
esse ultima injuria, quam patienter acceperis ."
That is : "Afterwards Ridolfonus gave him in
the customary way the blow, and said to him :
Thou art a noble Knight of the Equestrian
Order of Chivalry, and this blow is given in
memory of him who bath armed thee as a
knight, and it must be the last injury which
thou shalt patiently endure ." The first reason
assigned for the blow refers to an old custom
of cuffing the witnesses to a transaction, to
KNIGHT
impress it on their memory . Thus, by the
riparian law, when there was a sale of land,
some twelve witnesses were collected to see
the transfer of property and the payment of
the price, and each received a box on the ear,
that he might thus the better remember the
occurrence . So the knight received the blow
to make him remember the time of his receiv-
ing his knighthood and the person who con-
ferred it .
For the commission of crime, more espe-
cially for disloyalty to his sovereign, a knight
might be degraded from the Order ; and this
act of degradation was accompanied with
many ceremonies, the chief of which was the
hacking off his spurs . This was to be done
for greater infamy, not by a knight, but by the
master cook . Thus Stow says that, at the
making of Knights of the Bath, the king's
master cook stood at the door of the chapel,
and said to each knight as he entered, "Sir
Knight, look that you be true and loyal to the
king my master, or else I must hew these
spurs from your heels ." His shield too was re-
versed, and the heralds had certain marks
called abatements, which they placed on it to
indicate his dishonor .
M . de St . Palaye concludes his learned and
exhaustive Memoires sur l'ancienne Chevalerie
with this truthful tribute to that spirit of
chivalry in which ancient knighthood found
its birth, and with it I may appropriately
close this article :
"It is certain that chivalry, in its earliest
period, tended to promote order and good
morals ; and although it was in some respects
imperfect, yet it produced the most accom-
plished models of public valor and of those
pacific and gentle virtues that are the orna-
ments of domestic life ; and it is worthy of
consideration, that in an age of darkness,
most rude and unpolished, such examples
were to be found as the results of an institu-
tion founded solely for the public welfare, as
in the most enlightened times have never been
surpassed and very seldom equalled ."
Knight . 	1 . An order of chivalry . (See
Knighthood and Knight Masonic .)
2 . The Eleventh and last degree of the
Order of African Architects .
Knight, Black . 	See Black Brothers .
Knight Commander . 	(Chevalier Com-
mandeur .) 1 . The Ninth Degree of the Rite of
Elect Cohens . 2 . A distinction conferred by
the Supreme Council of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite for the Southern Juris-
diction of the United States on deserving Hon-
orary Thirty-thirds and Sublime Princes of
the Royal Secret . It is conferred by a vote of
the Supreme Council, and is unattended with
any other ceremony than the presentation of a
decoration and a patent .
Knight Commander of the Temple .
See Sovereign Commander of the Temple .
Knight Commander of the White and
Black Eagle . 	(Chevalier Commandeur de
l'Aigle blanc et noir .) Tha Eightieth Degree of
the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France .

KNIGHT 	KNIGHT 	391
Knight 	Crusader . 	(Chevalier Croise .)
Thory says (Act . Lat ., i ., 303) that this is a
chivalric degree, which was communicated to
him by a member of the Grand Lodge of
Copenhagen . He gives no further account
of its character .
Knight Elect of Fifteen . 	1 . The Six-
teenth Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite, more commonly called Illustrious Elect
of the Fifteen . (See Elect of Fifteen .)
2 . The Tenth Degree of the Chapter of
Emperors of the East and West .
3 . The Eleventh Degree of the Rite of
Mizraim .
Knight Elect of Twelve, Sublime . 	The
Eleventh Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite, sometimes called "Twelve Illustrious
Knights ." After vengeance had been taken
upon the traitors mentioned in the degrees of
Elected Knights of Nine and Illustrious
Elected of Fifteen, Solomon, to reward those
who had exhibited their zeal and fidelity in in-
flicting the required punishment, as well as to
make room for the exaltation of others to the
degree of Illustrious Elected of Fifteen, ap-
pointed twelve of these latter, chosen by bal-
lot, to constitute a new degree on which he
bestowed the name of Sublime Knights
Elected, and gave them the command over
the twelve tribes of Israel . The Sublime
Knights rendered an account each day to Sol-
omon of the work that was done in the Temple
by their respective tribes, and received their
pay . The Lodge is called a Chapter . In the
old rituals Solomon presides, with the title of
Thrice Puissant, and instead of Wardens,
there are a Grand Inspector and a Master of
Ceremonies . In the modern ritual of the
Southern Jurisdiction, the Master and War-
dens represent Solomon, Hiram of Tyre, and
Adoniram, and the style of the Master and
Senior Warden is Thrice Illustrious . The
room is hung with black, sprinkled with white
and red tears .
The apron is white, lined and bordered with
black, with black strings ; on the flap, a flam-
ing heart .
The sash is black, with a flaming heart on
the breast, suspended from the right shoulder
to the left hip .
The jewel is a sword of justice .
This is the last of the three Elus which are
found in the Ancient Scottish Rite . In the
French Rite they have been condensed into
one, and make the Fourth Degree of that
ritual, but not, as Ragon admits, with the
happiest effect .
Knight Evangelist . A grade formerly in
the archives of the Lodge of St . Louis des
Amis Rcunis at Calais . 	(Thory, Acta Lat .,
i ., 312 .)
Knight Hospitaler . See Knight of Malta .
Knight, Illustrious or Illustrious Elect .
(Chevalier Illustre or Elu Illustre .) 	The Thir-
teenth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Knight Jupiter . 	(Le Chevalier Jupiter .)
The Seventy-eighth Degree of the collection
of Peuvret .
Knight Kadosh, formerly called Grand
Elect Knight Kadosh . 	(Grand Elu du Cheva-
lier Kadosch .) The Knight Kadosh is the Thir-
tieth Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite, called also Knight of the White
and Black Eagle . While retaining the general
Templar doctrine of the Kadosh system, it
symbolizes and humanizes the old lesson of
vengeance . It is the most popular of all the
Kadoshes .
In the Knight Kadosh of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite, the meetings are
called Councils . The principal officers are,
according to the recent rituals, a Commander,
two Lieutenant Commanders, called also
Prior and Preceptor ; a Chancellor, Orator,
Almoner, Recorder, and Treasurer . 	The
jewel, as described in the ritual of the South-
ern Supreme Council, is a double-headed eagle,
displayed resting on a teutonic cross, the eagle
silver, the cross gold enameled red . The
Northern Council uses instead of the eagle
the letters J . B . M . The Kadoshes, as repre-
sentatives of the Templars, adopt the Beau-
scant as their standard . In this degree, as in
all the other Kadoshes, we find the mystical
ladder of seven steps .
Knight Kadosh of Cromwell . 	Ragon
says of this (Tuileur, p . 171), that it is a pre-
tended degree, of which he has four copies,
and that it appears to be a monstrosity in-
vented by an enemy of the Order for the pur-
poses of calumniation . The ritual says that
the degree is conferred only in England and
Prussia, which is undoubtedly untrue .
Knight Masonic . 	The word knight, pre-
fixed to so many of the high degrees as a part
of the title, has no reference whatever to the
orders of chivalry, except in the case of
Knights Templar and Knights of Malta . The
word, in such titles as Knight of the Ninth
Arch, Knight of the Brazen Serpent, etc ., has
a meaning totally unconnected with Medieval
knighthood . In fact, although the English,
German, and French words Knight, Ritter,
and Chevalier, are applied to both, the Latin
word for each is different . A Masonic knight
is, in Latin, eques ; while the Medieval writers
always called a knight of chivalry miles . So
constant is this distinction, that in the two in-
stances of Masonic knighthood derived from
the chivalric orders, the Knights Templar and
the Knight of Malta, this word miles is used,
instead of eques, to indicate that they are not .
really degrees of Masonic knighthood . Thus
we say Miles Templarius and Miles Melitce .
If they had been inventions of a Masonic rit-
ualist, the titles would have been Eques Tem-
plarius and Eques Melitce .
The eques, or Masonic knight, is therefore
not, in the heraldic sense, a knight at all . The
word is used simply to denote a position higher
than that of a mere Master ; a position calling,
like the "devoir" of knighthood, for the per-
formance of especial duties . As the word
"prince," in Masonic language, denotes not
one of princely rank, but one invested with
a share of Masonic sovereignty and command,
so "knight" denotes one who is expected to
be distinguished with peculiar" fidelity to the

392 	KNIGHT
cause in which he has enlisted . It is simply,
as has been said, a point of rank above that of
the Master Mason . It is, therefore, confined
to the high degrees .
Knight Mahadon . 	(Chevalier Mahadon .)
A degree in the Archives of the Lodge of St .
Louis des Amis Rkunis at Calais .
Knight of Asia, Initiated . 	See Asia,
Initiated Knights of .
Knight of Athens . 	(Chevalier d'AthMes .)
1 . The Fifty-second Degree of the Rite
of Mizraim . 2 . A degree in the nomenclar
ture of Fustier . 3 . A degree in the Archives
of the Mother Lodge of the Philosophic Rite
in France .
Knight of Aurora . 	(Chevalier de l'Au-
rore .) A degree belonging to the Rite of Pales-
tine . It is a modification of the Kadosh, and
is cited in the collection of Fustier. In the col-
lection of M . Viany, it is also called Knight of
Palestine .
Knight of Beneficence . 	(Chevalier de la
Bienfaisance .) 	The Forty-ninth Degree of
the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France . It is also called Knight of Perfect
Silence .
Knight of Brightness . 	(Chevalier de la
Clarte .) The Seventh and last degree of the
system of the Clerks of Strict Observance,
called also Magus .
Knight of Christ . 	After the dissolution
of the Templars in the fourteenth century,
those knights who resided in Portugal re-
tained the possessions of the Order in that
country, and perpetuated it under the name of
the Knights of Christ . Their badge is a red
cross pattee, charged with a plain white cross .
(See Christ, Order of .)
Knight of Constantinople . 	A side de-
gree ; instituted, doubtless, by some lecturer ;
teaching, however, an excellent moral lesson
of humility . Its history has no connection
whatever with Masonry . The degree is not
very extensively diffused ; but several Masons,
especially in the Western States, are in pos-
session of it . It may be conferred by any
Master Mason on another ; although the
proper performance of the ceremonies re-
quires the assistance of several . When the
degree is formally conferred, the body is called
a Council, and consists of the following offi-
cers : Illustrious Sovereign, Chief of the Arti-
sans, Seneschal, Conductor Prefect of the
Palace, and Captain of the Guards .
Knight of Hope . 1 . A species of androgy-
nous Masonry, formerly practised in France .
The female members were called Dames or
Ladies of Hope . 	2 . A synonym of Knight of
the Morning Star, which see .
Knight of Iris . 	(Chevalier de l'Iris .)
The Fourth Degree of the Hermetic Rite of
Montpellier .
Knight of Jerusalem . 	(Chevalier deJe,-u
salem .) 	The Sixty-fifth Degree of the collec-
tion of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight of Justice . 	Knights Hospitalers
of St . John of Jerusalem or Knights of Malta
were called, in the technical language of the
Order, Knights of Justice .
KNIGHTS
Knights of Malta . 	This Order, which at
various times in the progress of its history re-
ceived the names of Knights Hospitalers
Knights of St . John of Jerusalem, Knights of
Rhodes, and, lastly, Knights of Malta, was
one of the most important of the religious and
military orders of knighthood which sprang
into existence during the Crusades which were
instituted for the recovery of the Holy Land .
It owes its origin to the Hospitalers of Jerusa-
lem, that wholly religious and charitable Order
which was established at Jerusalem, in 1048
by pious merchants of Amalfi for the succor of
poor and distressed Latin pilgrims . (See Hos-
~italers of Jerusalem .) 	This society, estab-
lished when Jerusalem was in possession of the
Mohammedans, passed through many vicissi-
tudes, but lived to see the Holy cty con-
quered by the Christian knights . It then re-
ceived many accessions from the Crusaders,
who, laying aside their arms, devoted them-
selves to the pious avocation of attending the
sick . It was then that Gerard, the Rector of
the Hospital, induced the brethren to take
upon themselves the vows of poverty, obe-
dience, and chastity, which they did at the
hands of the Patriarch of Jerusalem, who
clothed them in the habit selected for the
Order, which was a plain, black robe bearing
a white cross of eight points on the left breast .
This was in the year 1099, and some writers
here date the beginning of the Order of
Knights of Malta . But this is an error . It
was not until after the death of Gerard that
the Order assumed that military character
which it ever afterward maintained, or, in
other words, that the peaceful Hospitalers of
Jerusalem became the warlike Knights of St .
John .
In 1118, Gerard, the Rector of the Hospital,
died, and was succeeded by Raymond du Puy,
whom Marulli, the old chronicler of the Order,
in his Vite de' Gran Maestri (Napoli, 1636),
calls "secondo Rettore e primo Maestro ."
The peaceful habits and monastic seclusion
of the Brethren of the Hospital, which had
been fostered by Gerard, no longer suited the
warlike emus of his successor . He therefore
proposed a change in the character of the so-
ciety, by which it should become a military
Order, devoted to active labors in the field
and the protection of Palestine from the en-
croachments of the infidels . This proposition
was warmly approved by Baldwyn II ., King
of Jerusalem who, harassed by a continual
warfare, glaxly accepted this addition to his
forces . The Order having thus been organ-
ized on a military basis, the members took a
new oath, at the hands of the Patriarch of
Jerusalem, by which they bound themselves
to defend the cause of Christianity against the
infidels in the Holy Land to the last drop of
their blood, but on no account to bear arms
for any other purpose .
This act, done in 1118, is considered as the
beginning of the establishment of the Order
of Knights Hospitalers of St . John, of which
Raymond du Puy is, by all historians, deemed
the first Grand Master .

KNIGHTS
By the rule established by Du Puy for the
government of the Order, it was divided into
three classes, namely, 1 . Knights, who were
called Knights of Justice ; 2 . Chaplains ; and
3 . Serving Brothers ; all of whom took the
three vows of chastity, obedience, and pov-
erty . 	There was also attached to the in-
stitution a body of men called Donats, who,
without assuming the vows of the Order, were
employed in the different offices of the hos-
pital, and who wore what was called the demi-
cross, as a badge of their connection .
The history of the Knights from this time
until the middle of the sixteenth cent ury is but
a chronicle of continued warfare with the ene-
mies of the Christian faith . When Jerusalem
was captured by Saladin, in 1187, the Hos-
pitalers retired to Margat, a town and fortress
of Palestine which still acknowledged the
Christian sway . In 1191, they made Acre,
which in that year had been recaptured by
the Christians, their principal place of resi-
dence . 	For just one hundred years the
knights were engaged, with varying success, in
sanguinary contests with the Saracens and
other infidel hordes, until Acre, the last
stronghold of the Christians in the Holy Land,
having fallen beneath the blows of the vic-
torious Moslems, Syria was abandoned by the
Latin race, and the Hos italers found refuge
in the island of Cyprus, were they established
their convent .
The Order had been much attenuated by its
frequent losses in the field, and its treasury
had been impoverished . But commands were
at once issued by John de Villiers, the Grand
Master, to the different Grand Priories in
Europe, and large reinforcements in men and
money were soon received, so that the Fra-
ternity were enabled again to open their hos-
pital and to recommence the practise of their
religious duties . No longer able to continue
their military exploits on land, the knights
betook themselves to their galleys, and, while
they protected the pilgrims who still flocked
in vast numbers to Palestine, gave security to
the Christian commerce of the Mediterranean .
On sea, as on land, the Hospitalers still
showed that they were the inexorable and ter-
trible foes of the infidels, whose captured ves-
sels soon filled the harbor of Cy p rus .
But in time a residence in Cyprus became
unpleasant . 	The king, by heavy taxes and
other rigorous exactions, had so disgusted
them, that they determined to seek some other
residence . 	The neighboring island of Rhodes
had long, under its independent princes, been
the refuge of Turkish corsairs ; a name equiva-
lent to the more modern one of pirates . Fulk
de Villaret, the Grand Master of the Hospital,
having obtained the approval of Pope Clement
and the assistance of several of the European
States, made a descent upon the island, and,
after months of hard fighting, on the 15th of
August, 1310, planted the standard of the
Order on the walls of the city of Rhodes ; and
the island thenceforth became the home of the
Hoe italers, whence they were often called
the 	' 	to of Rhodes .
KNIGHTS 	393
The Fraternity continued 	to reside at
Rhodes for two hundred years, acting as the
outpost and defense of Christendom from the
encroachments of the Ottoman power . Of this
long period, but few years were passed in
pe ace, and the military reputation of the
Order was still more firmly established by the
prowess of the knights . These two centuries
were marked by other events which had an
important bearing on the fortunes of the in-
stitution . 	The rival brotherhood of the Tem-
plars was abolished b y the machinations of a
pope and a king of France, and what of its
revenues and possessions was saved from the
spoliation of its enemies was transferred to the
Hospitalers .
There had always existed a bitter rivalry
between the two Orders, marked by unhappy
contentions, which on some occasions, while
both were in Palestine, amounted to actual
strife . Toward the Knights of St . John the
Templars had never felt nor expressed a very
kindly feeling ; and now this acceptance of an
unjust appropriation of their goods in the hour
of their disaster, keenly added to the senti-
ment of ill-will, and the unhappy children of
De Molay, as they passed away from the thea-
ter of knighthood, left behind them the bitter-
est imprecations on the disciples of the Hos-
pital .
The Order, during its residence at Rhodes,
also underwent several changes in its organ-
ization, by which the simpler system observed
during its infancy in the Holy Land was ren-
dered more perfect and more complicated .
The greatest of all these changes was in the
character of the European Commanderies .
During the period that the Order was occupied
in the defense of the holy places, and losing
large numbers of its warriors in its almost con-
tinual battles, these Commanderies served as
nurseries for the preparation and education of
young knights who might be sent to Pales-
tine to reinforce the exhausted ranks of their
brethren . But now, secured in their island
home, Jerusalem permanently in possession
of the infidel, and the enthusiasm once in-
spired b y Peter the Hermit forever dead, there
was no longer need for new Crusaders . 	But
the knights, engaged in strengthening and
decorating their insular possession by erecting
fortifications for defense, and palaces and con-
vents for residence, now required large addi-
tions to their revenue to defray the expenses
thus incurred . Hence the Commanderies were
the sources whence this revenue was to be de-
rived ; and the Commanders, once the Prin-
cipals, as it were, of military schools, became
lords of the manor in their respective prov-
inces . 	There, by a judicious and economical
administration of the p roperty which had
been entrusted to them, by the cultivation of
gardens and orchards by the rent received
from arable and meadow lands, of mills and
fisheries appertaining to their estates, and
even by the voluntary contributions of their
neighbors, and by the raising of stock, they
were enabled to add greatly to their income .
Of this one-fifth was claimed, under the name

394 	KNIGHTS
of responsions, as a tribute to be sent annually
to Rhodes for the recuperation of the always
di min ishing revenue of the Order .
p
Another important change in the organiza-
tion of the Order was made at a General Chap-
ter held about 1320 at Montpellier, under the
Grand Mastershi of Villanova . The Order
was there divided into languages, a division
unknown during its existence in Palestine .
These languages were at first seven in number,
but afterward increased to eight, by the
subdivision of that of Aragon . 	The principal
dignities of the Order were at the same time
divided among these languages, so that a
articular dignity should be always enjoyed
bby the same language . 	These languages, and
the dignities respectively attached to them,
were as follows :
1 . Provence : Grand Commander .
2 . Auvergne : Grand Marshal .
3 . France : Grand Hospitaler .
4 . Italy : Grand Admiral .
5 . Aragon : Grand Conservator .
6 . Germany : Grand Bailiff .
7 . Castile : Grand Chancellor .
8 . England : Grand Tureopolier .
But perhaps the greatest of all changes was
that which took place in the personal char-
acter of the Knights . 	"The Order," says
Taafe (Hist ., iv ., 234), "had been above two
hundred years old before it managed a boat,
but was altogether equestrian during its two
first, and perhaps most glorious, centuries ."
But on settling at Rhodes, the knights began
to attack their old enemies by sea with the
same prowess with which they had formerly
met them on land, and the victorious contests
of the galleys of St . John with the Turkish
corsairs, who were infesting the Mediterra-
nean, proved them well entitled to the epithet
of naval warriors .
In the year 1480, Rhodes was unsuccess-
fully besieged by the Ottoman army of Mo-
hammed II ., under the command of Paleologus
Pasha . 	After many contests, the Turks were
repulsed with great slaughter . But the attack
of the Sultan Solyman, forty-four years after-
ward, was attended with a different result, and
Rhodes was surrendered to the Turkish forces
on the 20th of December, 1522 . The terms of
the capitulation were liberal to the knights,
who were permitted to retire with all their per-
sonal property ; and thus, in the Grand Mas-
tership of L'Isle Adam, Rhodes ceased forever
to be the home of the Order, and six days
afterward, on New Year's Day, 1523, the fleet,
containing the knights and four thousand of
the inhabitants, sailed for the island of
Candia .
From Candia, where the Grand Master re-
mained but a short time, he proceeded with
his knights to Italy . 	Seven long years were
p assed in negotiations with the monarchs of
Europe, and in the search for a home . 	At
length, the Emperor Charles V ., of Germany,
vested in the Order the complete and perpet-
ual sovereignty of the islands of Malta and
Gozo, and the city of Tripoli; and in 1530,
KNIGHTS
the knights took formal possession of Malta,
where, to borrow the language of Porter (Hilt .,
ii ., 33), "for upwards of two centuries and a
half, waved the banner of St . John, an honor
to Christianity and a terror to the infidel of
the East ." From this time the. Order received
the designation of "Knights of Malta," a title
often bestowed upon it, even in official docu-
ments, in the place of the original one of
" Kn ights Hospitalers of St . John of Jerusa-
lem ."
For 268 years the Order retained possession
of the island of Malta . But in 1798 it was sur-
rendered without a struggle b y Louis de Hom-
pesch, the imbecile and pusillanimous Grand
Master, to the French army and fleet under
Bonaparte ; and this event may be considered
as the commencement of the suppression of
the Order as an active power .
Hompesch, accompanied by a few knights,
embarked in a few days for Trieste, and sub-
sequently retired to Montpellier, where he
resided in the strictest seclusion and poverty
until May 12, 1805, when he died, leaving be-
hind him not enough to remunerate the phy-
sicians who had attended him .
The great body of the knights p roceeded
to Russia, where the Emperor Paul had a few
years before been proclaimed the protector
of the Order . 	On the 27th of October, 1798 a
Chapter of such of the knights as were in §t .
Petersburg was held, and the Emperor Paul I .
was elected Grand Master . This election was
made valid, so far as its irregularities would
permit, by the abdication of Hompesch in
July, 1799 .
At the death of Paul in 1801, his successor
on the throne, Alexander, appointed Count
Soltikoff as Lieutenant of the Mastery, and
directed him to convene a Council at St . Pet-
ersburg to deliberate on future action . This
assembly ado p ted a new statute for the elec-
tion of the Grand Master, which provided
that each Grand Priory should in a Provincial
Chapter nominate a candidate, and that out
of the persons so nominated the Pope should
make a selection . 	Accordingly, in 1802, the
Pope appointed John de Tommasi, who was
the last knight that bore the title of Grand
Master .
On the death of Tommasi, the Pope de-
clined to assume any lon g er the res p onsibility
of nominating a Grand Master, and appointed
the Bailiff Guevarr Luardo simply as Lieu-
tenant of the Mastery, a title afterward held
by his successors, Centelles, Busca, De Can-
dida, and Collavedo . 	In 1826 and 1827, the
first steps were taken for the revival of the
English language, and Sir Joshua Meredith,
Bart ., who had been made a knight in 1798 by
Hompesch, being appointed Lieutenant Prior
of England, admitted many English gentle-
men into the Order .
But the real history of the Order of St . John
of Jerusalem ends with the disgraceful capitu-
lation at Malta in 1798 . All that has since re-
mained of it, all that now remains-however
imposing may be the titles assumed-is but
the diluted shadow of its former existence .

KNIGHT
The organization of the Order in its days of
prosperity was very complicated, partaking
both of a monarchist and a republican charac-
ter . Over all presided a Grand Master, who,
although invested with extensive powers, was
still controlled by the legislative action of the
General Chapter .
The Order was divided into eight languages
over each of which presided one of the Grand
dignitaries with the title of Conventual Bail-
iff . These dignitaries were the Grand Com-
mander, the Grand Marshal, the Grand Hos-
pitaler, the Grand Conservator, the Grand
Turcopolier, the Grand Bailiff, and the Grand
Chancellor . Each of these dignitaries re-
sided in the palace or inn at Malta which
was appropriated to his language . In every
province there were one or more Grand Pri-
ories presided over by Grand Priors, and be-
neath these were the Commanderies, over
each of which was a Commander . There were
scattered through the different countries of
Europe 22 Grand Priories and 596 Comman-
deries .
Those who desired admission into the Order
as members of the first class, or Knights of
Justice, were required to produce proofs of
noble descent . The ceremonies of initiation
were public and exceedingly simple, consisting
of little more than the taking of the necessary
vow . In this the Hos italers differed from
the Templays, whose formula of admission
was veiled in secrecy . Indeed, Porter (Hist .,
i ., 203) attributes the escape of the former
Order from the accusations that were heaped
upon the latter, and which led to its dissolu-
tion, to the fact that the Knights "abjured
all secrecy in their forms and ceremonies ."
The Order was dissolved in England by
Henry VIII ., and, although temporarily re-
stored by Mary, was finally abolished in Eng-
land . A decree of the Constituent Assembly
abolished it in France in 1792 . By a decree of
Charles IV ., of Spain, in 1802, the two lan-
guages of Aragon and Castile became the
Royal Spanish Order of St . John, of which he
declared himself the Grand Master .
Now, only the languages of Germany and
Italy remain . The Order is, therefore, at
this day in a state of abeyance, if not of dis-
integration, although it still maintains its
vitality, and the functions of Grand Master
are exercised by a Lieutenant of the Magis-
tery, who resides at Rome . Attempts have
also been made, from time to time, to re-
vive the Order in different places, sometimes
with and sometimes without the legal sanction
of the recognized head of the Order . For in-
stance, there are now in England two bodies-
one Catholic, under Sir George Bowyer, and
the other Protestant, at the head of which is
the Duke of Manchester ; but each repudiates
the other . But the relic of the old and valiant
Order of Knights Hospitalers claims no con-
nection with the branch of Masonry which
bears the title of Knights of Malta, and hence
the investigation of its present condition is no
part of the province of this work .
Knight of Malta, Masonic . 	The degree
KNIGHT 	395
of Knight of Malta is conferred in the United
States as "an appendant Order" in a Com-
mandery of Knights Templar . There is a
ritual attached to the degree, but very few are
in possession of it, and it is generally com-
municated after the candidate has been cre-
ated a Knights Templar ; the ceremony con-
sisting generally only in the reading of the
passage of Scripture prescribed in the Moni-
tors, and the communication of the modes of
recognition .
How anything so anomalous in history as
the commingling in one body of Knights Tem-
plar and Knights of Malta, and making the
same person a representative of both Orders,
first arose, it is now difficult to determine . It
was, most probably, a device of Thomas S .
Webb, and was, it may be supposed, one of
the results of a too great fondness for the ac-
cumulation of degrees . Mitchell, in his His-
tory of Freemasonry (ii ., 83), says : "The de-
gree, so called, of Malta, or St . John of Jeru-
salem, crept in, we suppose, by means of a
bungler, who, not knowing enough of the rit-
ual to confer it properly, satisfied himself by
simply adding a few words in the ceremony of
dubbing ; and thus, by the addition of a few
signs and words but imperfectly understood,
constituted a Knights Templar also a Knight
of Malta, and so the matter stands to this
day ." I am not generally inclined to place
much confidence in Mitchell as an historian ;
yet I cannot help thinking that in this in-
stance his guess is not very far from the truth
although, as usual with him, there is a tinge of
exaggeration in his statement .
There is evidence that the degree was in-
troduced at a very early period into the Ma-
sonry of this country . In the Constitution of
the "United States Grand Encampment,"
adopted in 1805 one section enumerates
"Encampments of Knights of Malta, Knights
Templars, and Councils of Knights of the
Red Cross," now Companions of the Red
Cross . It will be observed that the Knight
of Malta precedes the Knights Templar ;
whereas, in the present system, the former is
made the ultimate degree of the series . Yet,
in this Constitution, no further notice is taken
of the degree ; for while the fees for the Red
Cross and the Templar degrees are prescribed,
there is no reference to any to be paid for
that of Malta . In the revised Constitution of
1816, the order of the series was changed to
Red Cross, Templar, and Malta, which ar-
rangement has ever since been maintained .
The Knights of Malta are designated as one of
the "Appendant Orders," a title and a subor-
dinate position which the pride of the old
Knights of Malta would hardly have per-
mitted them to accept .
In 1856, the Knights Templar of the United
States had become convinced that the incor-
K
oration of the Order of Malta with the
nights Templar, and making the same person
the possessor of both Orders, was so absurd a
violation of all historic truth that at the
session of the General Grand Encampment in
that year, at Hartford, Connecticut, on the

896 	KNIGHT
suggestion of the author, the degree was unan-
imously stricken from the Constitution ; but
at the session of 1862, in Columbus, Ohio, it
was, I think, without due consideration re-
stored, and is now communicated in the Com-
manderies of Knights Templar .
There is no fact in history better known
than that there existed from their very birth
a rivalry between the two Orders of the Tem-
ple and of St . John of Jerusalem, which some-
times burst forth into open hostility . Porter
says (Hist . K . of Malta, i . 107), speaking of
the dissensions of the two orders "instead of
confining their rivalry to a friendly emulation,
whilst combating against their common foe,
they appeared more intent upon thwarting
and frustrating each other, than in opposing
the Saracen ."
To such an extent had the quarrels of the
two Orders proceeded, that Pope Alexander
III . found it necessary to interfere ; and in
1179 a hollow truce was signed by the rival
houses of the Temple and the Hospital ; the
terms of which were, however, never strictly
observed by either side . On the dissolution
of the Templars so much of their possessions
as were not confiscated to public use were
ven by the sovereigns of Europe to the
'ghts of Malta, who accepted the gift with-
out compunction . And there is a tradition
that the surviving Templars, indignant at the
spoliation and at the mercenary act of their
old rivals in willingly becoming a party to
the robbery, solemnly registered a vow never
thereafter to recognize them as friends .
The attempt at this day to make a modern
Knights Templar accept initiation into a
hated and antagonistic Order is to display a
lamentable ignorance of the facts of history .
Another reason why the degree of Knight of
Malta should be rejected from the Masonic
system is that the ancient Order never was a
secret association . Its rites of reception were
open and public, wholly unlike anything in
Masonry . In fact, historians have believed
that the favor shown to the Hospitalers, and
the persecutions waged against the Templars,
are to be attributed to the fact that the latter
Order had a secret system of initiation which
did not exist in the former . The ritual of re-
ception, the signs and words as modes of recog-
nition now practised in the modern Masonic
ceremonial, are all a mere invention of a very
recent date . The old Knights knew nothing
of such a system .
A third, and perhaps the best, reason for
rejecting the Knights of Malta as a Masonic
degree is to be found in the fact that the
Order still exists, although in a somewhat
decayed condition ; and that its members,
claiming an uninterrupted descent from the
Knights who, with Hompesch, left the island
of Malta in 1797 and threw themselves under
the protection oti Paul of Russia, utterly dis-
claim any connection with the Freemasons,
and almost contemptuously repudiate the so-
called Masonic branch of the Order . In 1858,
a manifesto was issued by the supreme author-
ity of the Order, dated from "the Magisterial
KNIGHT
Palace of the Sacred Order" at Rome which,
after stating that the Order, as it then ex-
isted, consisted only of the Grand Priories
in the Langues of Italy and Germany, the
knights in Prussia, who trace descent from the
Grand Bailiwick of Brandenburg, and a few
other knights who had been legally received
by the Mastership and Council, declares that :
"Beyond and out of the above-mentioned
Langues and Priories, and excepting the
knights created and constituted as aforesaid,
all those who may so call or entitle them-
selves are legally ignored by our Sacred Order ."
There is no room there provided for the
so-called Masonic Knights of Malta . But
a writer in Notes and Queries (3d Ser ., iii .,
413), who professes to be in possession of the
degree, says, in reply to an inquiry, that the
Masonic degree "has nothing whatever to do
with the Knights Hospitalers of St . John of
Jerusalem ." This is most undoubted) true
in reference to the American degree . Neither
in its form, its ritual, the objects it professes,
its tradition, nor its historical relations, is it
in the slightest degree assimilated to the an-
cient Order of Hospitalers, afterward called
Knights of Rhodes, and, finally, Knights of
Malta . To claim therefore, to be the modern
representatives d that Order, to wear its dress
to adopt its insignia, to flaunt its banners, and
to leave the world to believe that the one is but
the uninterrupted continuation of the other,
are acts which must be regarded as a very
ridiculous assumption, if not actually entitled
to a less courteous appellation .
For all these reasons, I think that it is much
to be regretted that the action of the Grand
Encampment in repudiating the degree in
1856 was reversed in 1862 . The degree has no
historical or traditional connection with Ma-
sonry ; holds no proper place in a Comman .
dery of Templars, and ought to be wiped out
of the catalogue of Masonic degrees .'
Knight of Masonry, Terrible . 	(Cheva-
lier Terrible de la Magonnerie .) A degree con-
tained in the collection of Le Page .
Knight of Palestine . 	(Chevalier de la
Palestine .) 	1 . The Sixty-third Degree of the
Rite of Mizraim . 2 . The Ninth Degree of
the Reform of St . Martin . 3 . One of the
series of degrees formerly iven in the Bald-
wyn Encampment of England, and said to
have been introduced into Bristol, in 1800, by
some French refugees under the authority of
the Grand Orient of France .
* A different view is now generally held by
Templars regarding the Knights of Malta, and a
modified ritual has been adopted from the Cana-
dian work wherethe Malta istheprincipal degree
of their Priories . 	The adoption of this ritual
among the Commanderies of America is optional,
but when once adopted must be conformed to
in their work . This change was brought about
by the visiting influence from Canada and also
the reasons for the Malta being a degree of
chivalry . 	For a similar reason the Knights of
the Red Cross has been justly changed to Com-
panion of the Red Cross, and properly never de-
served a place in the degrees of chivalry, as the
ritual plainly shows . 	[E . E . C .1

KNIGHT
Knight of Patmos . 	An apocalyptic de-
gree mentioned by Oliver in his Landmarks .
It refers, he says, to the banishment of St .
John .
Knight of Perfumes . 	(Chevalier des Par-
fums .) The Eighth Degree of the Rite of the
East (Rite d'Orient) according to the nomen-
clature of Fustier .
Knight of Pure Truth . 	(Chevalier de la
Pure Veritk .) Thory mentions this as a secret
society instituted by the scholars of the Jesu-
itical college at Tulle . 	It could scarcely have
been Masonic .
Knight of Purity and Light . 	(Ritter der
Klarheit and desLichts .) The Seventh and last
degree of the Rite of the Clerks of Strict Ob-
servance, which am .
Knight of Rhodes . 	1 . One of the titles
given to the Knights Hospitalers in conse-
uence of their long residence on the island of
odes . 2 . A degree formerly conferred in
the Baldwyn Encampment at Bristol, Eng-
land . 	It seems in some way to have been
confounded with the Mediterranean Pass .
Knight of Rose Croix . 	See Rose Croix .
Knight of St . Andrew, Grand Scottish .
(Grand Ecossais de Saint Andre .) Sometimes
called "Patriarch of the Crusades ." 	The
Twenty-ninth Degree of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite . 	Its ritual is founded on
a legend, first promulgated by the Chevalier
Ramsay, to this effect : that the Freemasons
were originally a society of knights founded in
Palestine for the purpose of building Christian
churches ; that the Saracens, to prevent the
execution of this design, sent emissaries among
them, who disguised themselves as Christians,
and were continually throwing obstacles in
their way ; that on discovering the existence
of these spies, the knights instituted certain
modes of recognition to serve as the means of
detection ; that they also adopted symbolic
ceremonies for the purpose of instructing the
proselytes who had entered the society in the
forms and principles of their new religion ; and
finally that the Saracens, having become too
powerful for the knights any longer to con-
tend with them, they had accepted the invi-
tation of a king of England, and had removed
into his dominions, where they thenceforth de-
voted themuives to the cultivation of archi-
tecture and the fine arts . 	On this mythical
legend, which in reality was only an applica-
tion of Ramsay's theory of the origin of Free-
masonry the Baron de Tschoudy is said about
the middle of the last century, to have formed
this degree, which Ragon says (Orthod . Mason .,
p . 138) at his death in 1769, he bequeathed in
manuscri ~t- to the 6ouncil of Emperors of the
East and West . 	On the subsequent extension
of the twenty-five degrees of the Rite of Per-
fection, instituted by that body, to the thirty-
three degrees of the Ancient and Accepted
Rite this degree was adopted as the twenty-
ninth and as an appropriate introduction to
the knights of Kadosh, which it immediately
precedes . Hence the jewel, a St . Andrew's
cross, is said, b~ yRagon, to be only a concealed
form of the Templar Cross . 	In allusion to
KNIGHT 	397
the time of its supposed invention, it has been
called "Patriarch of the Crusades ." On ac-
count of the Masonic instruction which it con-
tains, it also sometimes receives the title of
"Grand Master of Light ."
The Lodge is decorated with red hang-
ings supported by white columns . 	There are
eighty-one lights, arranged as follows : four in
each corner before a St . Andrew's cross, two
before the altar, and sixty-three arranged by
nines in seven different parts of the room .
There are three officers, a Venerable Grand
Master and two Wardens . The jewel is a St .
Andrew's cross, appropriately decorated, and
suspended from a green collar bordered with
red .
In the ritual of the Southern Jurisdiction,
the leading idea of a communication between
the Christian knights and the Saracens has
been preserved ; but the ceremonies and the
legend have been altered . The lesson intended
to be taught is toleration of religion .
This degree also constitutes the sixty-third
of the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter
of France ; the fifth of the Rite of Clerks of
Strict Observance ; and the twenty-first of
the Rite of Mizraim . 	It is also to be found in
many other systems .
Knight of St . Andrew, Free . 	(Chevalier
libre de Saint-Andre .) A degree found in the
collection of Pyron .
Knight of St . Andrew of the Thistle .
(Chevalier Ecossais de S . Andre du Chardon .)
The Seventy-fifth Degree of the collection of
the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight of St . John of Jerusalem . 	1 .
The original title of the Knights of Malta and
derived from the church and monastery built
at Jerusalem in 1048 by the founders of the
Order, and dedicated to St . John the Baptist .
(See 	night of Malta .)
2 . A mystical degree divided into three sec-
tions, which is found in the collection of Le-
manceau .
Knight of St . John of Palestine . (Cheva-
lier de Sainte Jean de la Palestine .) 	The
Forty-eighth Degree of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Knight of the Altar . 	(Chevalier de
l'Autel .) The Twelfth Degree of the Rite of the
East according to the nomenclature of Fustier .
Knight of the American Eagle . 	An
honorary degree invented many years ago in
Texas or some other of the Western States .
It was founded on incidents of the American
Revolution and gave an absurd legend of
Hiram Abif's boyhood . 	It is believed to be
now obsolete .
Knight of the Anchor . 	(Chevalier do
l'Ancre .) 	1 . An androgynous degree . 	(See
Anchor, Order of Knights and Ladies o}' the .)
2 . The Twenty-first Degree of the collection
of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight of the Ape and Lion . 	Gt dicke
says (Freimaurer-Lex .) that this Order ap-
peared about the year 1780, but that its exist-
ence was only made known by its extinction .
It adopted the lion sleeping with open eyes as
a symbol of watchfulness, and the ape as a

398 	KNIGHT
symbol of those who imitate without due
penetration . The members boasted that they
possessed all the secrets of the Ancient Tem-
plars, on which account they were persecuted
by the modern Order . The lion and ape, as
symbols of courage and address, are found in
one of the degrees described m the Franc-
Magons Ecrases .
Knight of the Arch . 	(Chevalier de
l'Arche .) A degree found in the nomenclature
of Fustier .
Knight of the Argonauts . 	(Chevalier des
Argonautes .) The first point of the Sixth De-
gree, or Knight of the Golden Fleece of the
Hermetic Rite of Montpellier .
Knight of the Banqueting Table of the
Seven Sages . 	(Chevalier de la Table du Ban-
quet des Sept Sages .) A degree in the Archives
of the Mother Lodge of the Philosophic Scot-
tish Rite .
Knight of the Black Eagle . (Chevalier de
l'Aigle noir .) 1 . The Seventy-sixth Degree of
the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France ; called also Grand Inquisitor, Grand
Inspector, Grand Elu or Elect, in the collec-
tion of Le Rouge . 	2 . The Thirty-eighth De-
gree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Knight of the Brazen Serpent . (Cheva-
lier du Serpent d'Airain .) 	The Twenty-fifth
Degree of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite . 	The history of this degree is founded
upon the circumstances related in Numbers
ch . xxi . ver . 6-9 : "And the Lord sent fiery
serpents among the people, and they bit the
people ; and much people of Israel died . There-
fore the people came to Moses, and said, We
have sinned ; for we have spoken against the
Lord, and against thee : pray unto the Lord
that he take away the serpents from us . And
Moses prayed for the people . 	And the
Lord said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery
serpent, and set it upon a pole : and it shall
come to pass, that every one that is bitten,
when he looketh upon it shall live . And Moses
made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a
pole ; and it came to pass, that if a serpent had
bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of
brass, he lived ." In the old rituals the Lodge
was called the Court of Sinai ; the presiding
officer was styled Most Puissant Grand Mas-
ter, and represented Moses ; while the two
Wardens, or Ministers, represented Aaron and
Joshua . 	The Orator was called Pontiff ; the
Secretary, Grand Graver ; and the candidate,
a Traveler . 	In the modern ritual adopted in
this country, the Council represents the camp
of the Israelites . 	The first three officers rep-
resent Moses, Joshua, and Caleb, and are
respectively styled Most Puissant Leader,
Valiant Captain of the Host, and Illustrious
Chief of the Ten Tribes . The Orator repre-
sents Eleazar ; the Secretary, Ithamar ; the
Treasurer, Phinehas ; and the candidate an
intercessor for the people . The jewel is a crux
ansata, with a serpent entwined around it .
On the upright of the cross is engraved `tr,,
khalati, I have suffered, and on the arms jI11nN1~,
nakhushtan, a serpent . 	The French ritualists
would have done better to have substituted
KNIGHT
for the first word " t11tUtt, khatati, I have sinned ;
the original in Numbers being 1]KUtt, Kath-
anu, we have sinned . 	The apron is white,
lined with black, and symbolically decorated .
There is an old legend which says that this
degree was founded in the time of the Cru-
sades, by John Ralph, who established the
Order in the Holy Land as a military and
monastic society and gave it the name of the
Brazen Serpent, because it was a part of their
obligation to receive and gratuitously nurse
sick travelers, to protect them against the at-
tacks of the Saracens, and escort them safely
to Palestine ; thus alluding to the healing and
saving virtues of the Brazen Serpent among
the Israelites in the wilderness .
Knight of the Burning Bush . 	(Chevalier
duBuisson ardent .) A theosophic degree of the
collection of the Mother Lodge of the Phil-
osophic Scottish Rite .
Knight of the Chanuca . 	(Chevalier de
la Kanuka .) The Sixty-ninth Degree of the
Rite of Mizraim . 	The 71=r1 or Chanuca, is
the feast of the dedication celebrated by the
Jews in commemoration of the dedication of
the Temple by Judas Maccabeeus after its pol-
lution by the Syrians . In the ritual of the de-
gree, the Jewish lighting of seven lamps, one
on each day, is imitated, and therefore the
ceremony of initiation lasts for seven days .
Knight of the Christian Mark . 	Called
also Guard of the Conclave . A degree formerly
conferred in the United States on Knights
Templar in a body called a Council of the
Trinity . The legend of the Order is that it was
organized by Pope Alexander for the defense
of his person, and that its members were se-
lected from the Knights of St . John of Jeru-
salem . 	In the ceremonies there is a reference
to the tau cross or mark on the forehead,
spoken of by the prophet Ezekiel, and hence
the name of the degree . The motto of the
Order is, "Christus regnat, vincit, triumphat .
Rex regnantium, _ Dominus dominantium ."
Christ reigns, conquers, and triumphs . 	King
of kings and Lord of lords .
Knight of the Columns . 	(Chevalier des
Colonises .) The Seventh Degree of the Rite
of the East according to the nomenclature of
Fustier .
Knight of the Comet . 	(Chevalier de la
Comete .) 	A degree found in the collection of
Hecart .
Knight of the Cork . 	(Chevalier du Boor
chon .) An androgynous secret society estab-
lished in Italy after the Papal bull excommuni-
cating the Freemasons, and intended by its
founders to take the place of the Masonic in-
stitution .
Knight of the Courts . 	(Chevalier des
Parvis .) The Third Degree of the Rite of the
East according to the nomenclature of Fustier .
Knight of the Crown . 	(Chevalier de la
Couronne .) A degree in the collection of Pyron .
Knight of the Door . 	(Chevalier de la
Porte .) The Fourth Degree of the Rite of the
East according to the nomenclature of Fustier .
Knight of the Dove . The Knights and
Ladies of the Dove (Chevaliers et Chevalieres

KNIGHT
de la Colombe) was an androgynous secret so-
ciety framed on the model of Freemasonry,
and instituted at Versailles in 1784 . It had but
an ephemeral existence .
Knight of the Eagle . 	(Chevalier de
l'Aigle .) 	1 . The First Degree of the Chap-
ter of Clermont . 2 . The Third Degree of the
Clerks of Strict Observance . 3 . The Fifty-
sixth Degree of the collection of the Metropol-
itan Chapter of France . 	4 . It was also one
of the degrees of the Chapter of the Grand
Lodge Royal York of Berlin . 5 . The Thirty-
seventh Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Thory (Ac 	t ., i ., 291) says it was also one of
the appellations of the degree more commonly
called Perfect Master in Architecture, which is
the Fourteenth of the Primitive Scottish Rite,
and is found also in some other systems .
Knight of the Eagle and Pelican . One
of the appellations of the degree of Rose Croix
because the jewel has on one side an eagle and
on the other a pelican, both at the foot of the
cross, in allusion to the symbolism of the de-
gree . 	(See Rose Croix, Prince of .)
. Knight of the Eagle reversed . 	(Cheva-
lier de l'Aigle renverse .) 	Thory (Aeta Lat ., i .,
292) records this as a degree to be found in the
Archives of the Scottish Lodge Saint Louis des
Amis Reunis at Calais . 	In heraldic phrase,
an eagle reversed is an eagle with the wings
drooping .
Knight of the East . 	(Chevalier d'Orient .)
This is a degree which has been extensively
diffused through the most important Rites,
and it owes its popularity to the fact that it
commemorates in its legend and its ceremonies
the labors of the Masons in the construction of
the second Temple .
1 . It is the Fifteenth Degree of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite, the description
of which will apply with slight modifications
to the same degree in all the other Rites . It is
founded upon the history of the assistance
rendered by Cyrus to the Jews, who per-
mitted them to return to Jerusalem, and to
commence the rebuilding of the house of the
Lord . Zerubbabel, therefore, as the Prince
of the Jews, and Cyrus the King of Persia, as
his patron, are important personages in the
drama of reception ; which is conducted with
great impressiveness even in the old and some-
what imperfect ritual of the last century, but
which has been greatly improved in the mod-
ern rituals adopted by the Supreme Councils
of the United States .
The cordon of a Knight of the East is a
broad green watered ribbon, worn as a baldric
from left to right . The sash or girdle is of
white watered silk, edged above, and fringed
below with gold . On it is embroidera
bridge, with the letters L . D . P . on the arch,
and also on other parts of the girdle human
heads, and mutilated limbs, and crowns, and
swords . The apron is crimson, edged with
green, a bleeding head and two swords crossed
on the flap, and on the apron three triangles
interlaced formed of triangular links of chains .
The jewel is three triangles interlaced enclos-
ing two naked swords .
KNIGHT 	399
Scripture and the traditions of the Order
furnish us with many interesting facts in re-
lation to this degree . The Knights of the
East are said to derive their origm from the
captivity of the Israelites in Babylon . After
seventy-two years of servitude, they were
restored to liberty by Cyrus, King of Persia,
through the intercession of Zerubbabel, a
prince of the tribe of Judah, and Nehemias, a
holy man of a distinguished family, and per-
mitted to return to Jerusalem and rebuild
the Temple .
2 . It is the Sixth Degree of the French Rite .
It is substantially the same as the preceding
degree .
3 . The Sixth Degree of the old system of
the Royal York Lodge of Berlin .
4 . The Fifteenth Degree of the Chapter of
the Emperors of the East and West, and this
was most probably the original degree .
5 . The Fifty-second Degree of the collec-
tion of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
6. The Forty-first Degree of the Rite of
Mizraim .
7 . The Sixth Degree of the Rite of Phila-
lethes .
8 . The Eleventh Degree of the Adonhiram-
ite Rite .
9 . It is also substantially the Tenth Degree,
or Knight of the Red Cross of the American
Rite . Indeed, it is found in all the Rites and
systems which refer to the second Temple .
Knight of the East and West . 	(Cheva-
lier d'Orient et d'Occident .) 1 . The Seventeenth
Degree of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite . The oldest rituals of the degree were
very imperfect, and did not connect it with
Freemasonry . They contained a legend that
upon the return of the knights from the Holy
Land, in the time of the Crusaders, they or-
ganized the Order, and that in the year 1118
the first knights, to the number of eleven, took
their vows between the hands of Garinus,
patriarch . The allusion, here, is evidently to
the Knights Templar ; and this legend would
most probably indicate that the degree orig-
inated with the Templar system of Ramsay .
This theory is further strengthened by the
other legend, that the Knights of the East
represented the Masons who remained in the
East after the building of the first Temple,
while the Knights of the East and West rep-
resented those who traveled West and dissem-
inated the Order over Europe, but who re-
turned during the Crusades and reunited with
their ancient brethren, whence we get the
name .
The modern ritual as used in the United
States has been greatly enlarged . It still re-
tains the apocalyptic character of the degree
which always attached to it, as is evident from
the old tracing-board, which is the figure de-
scribed in the first chapter of the Revelation
of St . John . The jewel is a heptagon inscribed
with symbols derived from the Apocalypse,
among which are the lamb and the book with
seven seals . The apron is yellow lined and
edged with crimson . 	In the old ritual its
device was a two-edged sword . In the new one

400 	KNIGHT
it is a tetractys of ten dots . This is the first of
the philosophical degrees of the Scottish Rite .
2 . The Seventeenth Degree of the Chapter of
Emperors of the East and West .
Knight of the Eastern Star . (Chevalier
de l'Etoile d'Orient .) 	The Fifty-seventh De-
gree of the collection of the Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Knight of the East, Victorious . 	(Cheva-
lier victorieux de l'Orient .) A degree found in
the collection of Hocart .
Knight of the East, White . 	(Chevalier
d'Orient .) The Fortieth Degree of the Rite of
Mizraim .
Knight of the Election . 	(Chevalier du
Choix .) 	The Thirty-third Degree of the Rite
of Mizraim .
Knight of the Election, Sublime . (Cheva-
lier sublime du Choix .) 	The Thirty-fourth
Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Knight of the Golden Eagle . 	(Chevalier
de l'Aigle d'or .) 	A degree in the collection of
Pyron .
Knight of the Golden Fleece . 	(Chevalier
de la Toisson d'or .) 	The Sixth Degree of the
Hermetic Rite of Montpellier .
Knight of the Golden Key . 	(Chevalier
de la Clef d'or .) 	The Third Degree of the
Hermetic Rite of Montpellier .
Knight of the Golden Star . 	(Chevalier
de l'Etoile d'or .) 	A degree contained in the
collection of Peuvret .
Knight of the Grand Arch . 	(Chevalier
de la Grande Arche .) A degree which Thory
(Acta Lat ., i . 295) says is contained in the
Archives of tie Lodge of Saint Louis des Amis
Reunis at Calais .
Knight of the Holy City, Beneficent .
(Chevalier bienfaisant de la Cite Sainte .) 	The
Order of Beneficent Knights of the Holy City
of Jerusalem was created, according to Ragon,
at Lyons, in France, in 1782 1 by the brethren
of the Lodge of Chevaliers Bienfaisants . 	But
Thory (Acts Lat . i . 299) says it was rectified at
the Congress of 'Vilhelmsbad . 	Both are per-
haps right . 	It was probably first invented at
Lyons, at one time a prolific field for the
hautes grades, and afterward adopted at Wil-
helmsbad, whence it began to exercise a great
influence over the Lodges of Strict Observance .
The Order professed the Rite of Martinism ;
but the members attempted to convert Free-
masonry into Templarism, and transferred all
the symbols of the former to the latter system .
Thus, they interpreted the two pillars of the
porch and their names as alluding to Jacobus
Burgandus or James the Burgundian, meaning
James de Molay, the last Grand Master of the
Templars ; the three gates of the Temple sig-
nified the three vows of the Knights Templar,
obedience, poverty, and chastity ; and the
sprig of acacia referred to that which was
planted over the ashes of De Molay when they
were transferred to Heredom in Scotland .
The Order and the doctrine sprang from the
Templar system of Ramsay . 	The theory of
its Jesuitic ongin can scarcely be admitted .
Knight of the Holy Sepulcher . 	1 . As a
Masonic degree, this was formerly given in
KNIGHT
u
what were called Councils of the Trinity, next
after the Knight of the Christian Mark ; but
it is no longer conferred in America, and may
now be considered as obsolete . 	The Masonic
legend that it was instituted by St . Helena, the
mother of Constantine, in 302, after she had
visited Jerusalem and discovered the cross,
and that, in 304, it was confirmed b 	Pope
Marcellinus, is altogether apocryphal . 	The
military Order of Knights of the Holy Sepul-
cher still exists ; and Mr . Curzon, in his Visits
to the Monasteries in the Levant, states that the
Order is still conferred in Jerusalem but only
on Roman Catholics of noble birth, by the
Reverendissimo or Superior of the Franciscans,
and that the accolade, or blow of knighthood,
is bestowed with the sword of Godfrey de
Bouillon, which is preserved, with his spurs, in
the sacristy of the Church of the Holy Sepul-
cher . 	Madame Pfeiffer, in her Travels in the
Holy Land, confirms this account . 	Dr . Hey-
lin says that the Order was instituted in 1099,
when Jerusalem was regained from the Sara-
cens by Philip of France . Faryn, in his
Theatre d' Honneur, gives a different account
of the institution . 	He says that while the
Saracens possessed the city they permitted
certain canons regular of St . Augustine to have
the custody of the Holy Sepulcher . 	After-
ward Baldwyn, King of Jerusalem, made them
Men-of-Arms and Knights of the Holy Sepul-
cher, and ordained that they should continue
to wear their white habits, and on the breast
his own arms, which were a red cross potent
between four Jerusalem crosses . Their rule
was confirmed by Pope Innocent III . The
Grand Master was the Patriarch of Jerusalem .
They engaged to fight against infidels, to pro-
tect pilgrims, to redeem Christian captives,
hear Mass every day, recite the hours of the
cross, and bear the five red crosses in memory
of our Savior's wounds . 	On the loss of the
Holy Land, they retired to Perugia, in Italy,
where they retained their white habit, but
assumed a double red cross . In 1484, they
were incorporated with the Knights Hospi-
talers, who were then at Rhodes, but in 1496,
Alexander VI . assumed, for himself and the
Popes his successors, the Grand Mastership,
and empowered the Guardian of the Holy
Sepulcher to bestow Knighthood of the Order
pon p ilgrims . 	Unsuccessful attempts were
made Ey PhiliII ., of Spain, in 1558, and the
Duke of Nevers, in 1625, to restore the Order .
It is now found only in Jerusalem, where it is
conferred, as has been already said, by the
Superior of the Franciscans .
2 . It is also the Fiftieth Degree of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight of the Interior . 	(Chevalier de
l'Interieur .) The Fifth Degree of the Rite of
the East according to the nomenclature of
Fustier .
Knight of the Kabbala . 	(Chevalier de la
Cabale .) 	The Eighth Degree of the collection
of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight of the Lilies of the Valley . 	This
was a degree conferred by the Grand Orient of
France as an appendage to Templarism . 	Th$

KNIGHT
Knights Templar who received it were con-
stituted Knts Commanders .
Knight of the Lion . 	(Chevalier du Lion .)
The Twentieth Degree of the . Metropolitan
Chapter of France .
Knight of the Mediterranean Pass . 	An
honorary degree that was formerly conferred
in Encampments of Knights Templar but is
now disused . Its meetings were called Coun-
cils ; and its ritual which was very impressive
supplies the tradition that it was founded
about the year 1367, in consequence of certain
events which occurred to the Knights of Malta .
In an excursion made by a party of these
knights in search of forage and provisions,
they were attacked while crossing the river
Offanto (the ancient Aufidio) by a large body
of Saracens, under the command of the re-
nowned Amurath I . 	The Saracens had con-
cealed themselves in ambush, and when the
knights were on the middle of the bridge which
spanned the river, they were attacked by a
sudden charge of their enemies upon both
extremities of the bridge . 	A long and san-
guinary contest ensued ; the knights fought
with their usual valor, and were at length
victorious . 	The Saracens were defeated with
such immense slaughter that fifteen hundred
of their dead bodies encumbered the bridge,
and the river was literally stained with their
blood . In commemoration of this event, and
as a reward for their valor, the victorious
knights had free permission to pass and repass
in all the coasts of the Mediterranean Sea
without danger of molestation, whence the
name of the degree is derived . 	As the latter
part of this legend has not been verified by
voyagers in the Mediterranean, the degree has
long been disused . 	Dr . Mackey says that he
had a ritual of it, which was in the handwriting
of Dr . Moses Holbrook, the Grand Com-
mander of the Southern Supreme Council of
the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite .
Knight of the Moon . A mock Masonic
society established in the last century in Lon-
don . it ceased to exist in the year 1810 .
Knight of the Morning Star . 	Called
also Knight of Hope . 	A degree in the Ar-
chives of the Mother Lodge of the Philo-
sophical Rite, which is said to be a modifica-
tion of the Kadosh .
Knight of the Ninth Arch . 	The Thir-
teenth Degree of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite, called also the "Royal Arch of
Solomon," and sometimes the "Royal Arch of
Enoch ." 	It is one of the most interesting and
impressive of what are called the Ineffable
degrees . 	Its legend refers to Enoch and to
the method by which, notwithstanding the
destructive influence of the deluge and the
lapse of time, he was enabled to preserve im-
portant secrets to be afterward communicated
to the Craft . 	According to the present ritual,
its principal officers are a Thrice Puissant
Grand Master representing King Solomon,
and two Wardens, representing the King of
Tyre and the Inspector Adoniram . 	Bodies of
this degree are called Chapters . 	The color is
black strewed with tears . 	The jewel is a
KNIGHT 	401
circular medal of gold, around which is in-
scribed the following letters : R . S . R . S . T. P .
S . R . I . A . Y . E . S ., with the date AnnoEnochi
2995 . 	On the reverse is a blazing triangle
with the Tetragrammaton in the center in
Samaritan letters .
This degree claims great importance in the
history of Masonic ritualism . 	It is found,
under various modifications, in almost all the
Rites ; and, indeed, without it, or something
like it, the symbolism of Freemasonry cannot
be considered as complete . 	Indebted for its
origin to the inventive genius of the Chevalier
Ramsay, it was adopted by the Council of the
Emperors of the East and West, whence it
passed into the Ancient and Accepted Rite .
Though entirely different in its legend from
the Royal Arch of, the York and American
Rites, its symbolic design is the same, for one
common thought of a treasure lost and found
pervades them all . 	Vassal, who is exceedingly
flippant in much that he has written of
Ecossism, says of this degree, that, "con-
sidered under its moral and religious aspects,
it offers nothing either instructive or useful ."
It is evident that he understood nothing of
its true symbolism .
Knight of the North . 	(Chevalier du
Nord .) A degree in the Archives of the Lodge
of Saint Louis des Amis Reunis at Calais .
Thory (Acta Lat ., i ., 328) mentions another
degree called Sublime Knight of the North,
which he says is the same as one in the collec-
tion of Peuvret, which has the singular title
of Daybreak of the Rough Ashlar, Point du
Jour de la Pierre Brute .
Knight of the Phenix . 	(Chevalier du
Phenix .) 	The Fourth Degree of the Philo-
sophic Scottish Rite .
Knight of the Prussian Eagle . (Chevalier
de l'Aigle Prussien .) 	A degree in the collec-
tion of H4cart .
Knight of the Puriflcatory . 	(Chevalier
du Purificatoire .) 	The Sixteenth Degree of
the Rite of the East according to the nomen-
clature of Fustier .
Knight of the Pyramid . 	(Chevalier de
la Pyramide .) 	The Seventh Degree of the
Kabbalistic Rite .
Knight of the Rainbow . 	(Chevalier de
l'Arc-en-ciel .) The Sixty-eighth Degree of the
Rite of Mizraim .
Knight of the Red Cross . This degree,
whose legend dates it far anterior to the
Christian era, and in the reign of Darius,
has no analogy with the chivalric orders of
knighthood . 	It is purely Masonic, and in-
timately connected with the Royal Arch De-
gree, of which, in fact, it ought rightly to be
considered as an appendage . 	It is, however,
now always conferred in a Commandery of
Knights Templar in this country, and is given
as a preliminary to reception in that degree .
Formerly, the degree was sometimes con-
ferred in an independent council, which Webb
(edit . 1812, p . 123) defines to be "a council
that derives its authority immediately from
the Grand Encampm~e~nt unconnected with an
Encampment of Knights Templars ." 	The

402 	KNIGHT
embassy of Zerubbabel and four other Jewish
chiefs to the court of Darius to obtain the
protection of that monarch from the encroach-
ments of the Samaritans, who interrupted the
labors in the reconstruction of the Temple,
constitutes the legend of the Red Cross Degree .
The history of this embassy is found in the
eleventh book of the Antiquities of Josephus,
whence the Masonic ritualists have undoubt-
edly taken it . The only authority of Jose-
phus is the apocryphal record of Esdras, and
the authenticity of the whole transaction is
doubted or denied by modern historians . The
legend is as follows : After the death of Cyrus,
the Jews, who had been released by him
from their captivity, and permitted to return
to Jerusalem, for the purpose of rebuilding
the Temple, found themselves obstructed in
the undertaking by the neighboring nations,
and especially by the Samaritans . Here-
upon they sent an embassy, at the head of
which was their prince, Zerubbabel, to Darius,
the successor of Cyrus, to crave his interpo-
sition and protection . Zerubbabel awaiting
a favorable opportunity, succeeded not only
in obtaining his request, but also in renewing
the friendship which formerly existed between
the king and himself . In commemoration of
these events, Darius is said to have instituted
a new order, and called it the Knights of the
East . They afterward assumed their present
name from the red cross borne in their ban-
ners . Webb, or whoever else introduced it
into the American Templar system, undoubt-
edly took it from the Sixteenth Degree, or
Prince of Jerusalem of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Rite . It has, within a few years, been
carried into England, under the title of the
"Red Cross of Babylon ." In New Brunswick,
it has been connected with Cryptic Masonry .
It is there as much out of place as it is in a
Commandery of Knights Templar . Its only
true connection is with the Royal Arch Degree .
Knight of the Red Eagle . 	(Chevalier de
l'Aigle rouge .) 	The Thirty-ninth Degree
of the Rite of Mizraim . The red eagle forms
a part of the arms of the House of Branden-
burg, and the Order of Knights of the Red
Eagle was instituted, in 1705, by George
William, hereditary Prince of Bayreuth . In
1792, it was placed among the Prussian orders .
The Masonic degree has no connection with
the political order . The Mizraimites appro-
priated all titles that they fancied .
Knight of the Rose . 	(Chevalier de la
Rose .) 	The Order of the Knights and Ladies
of the Rose (Chevaliers et Chevalieres de la Rose)
was an order of adoptive or androgynous Ma-
sonry, invented in France toward the close of
the eighteenth century . M . de Chaumont,
the Masonic secretary of the Due de Chartres,
was its author . The princi al seat of the
order was at Paris . The hallof meeting was
called the Temple of Love . It was orna-
mented with garlands of flowers, and hung
round with escutcheons on which were painted
various devices and emblems of gallantry .
There were two presiding officers, a male and
female, who were styled the Hierophant and
KNIGHT
the High Priestess . The former initiated men,
and the latter, women . In the initiations,
the Hierophant was assisted by a conductor
or deacon called Sentiment, and the High
Priestess by a conductress or deaconess called
Discretion . The members received the title
of Knights and Nymphs. The Knights wore
a crown of myrtle, the Nymphs, a crown of
roses . The Hierophant and High Priestess
wore in addition, a rose-colored scarf, on
which were embroidered two doves within a
wreath of myrtle . During the time of initia-
tion, the hall was lit with a single dull taper
but afterward it was brilliantly illuminated
by numerous wax candles .
When a candidate was to be initiated, he
or she was taken in charge, according to the
sex, by the conductor or conductress, divested
of all weapons, jewels, or money, hoodwinked,
loaded with chains, and in this condition con-
ducted to the door of the Temple of Love,
where admission was demanded by two
knocks . Brother Sentiment then introduced
the candidate by order of the Hierophant or
High Priestess, and he or she was asked his
or her name, country, condition of life, and,
lastly, what he or she was seeking . To this
the answer was, "Happiness ."
The next question proposed was, " What is
your age ? " The candidate, if a male, replied,
"The age to love" ; if a female, " The age to
please and to love ."
The candidates were then interrogated con-
cerning their private opinions and conduct in
relation to matters of gallantry . The chains
were then taken from them, and they were
invested with garlands of flowers which were
called "the chains of love ." In this condition
they were made to traverse the apartment
from one extremity to another, and then back
in a contrary direction, over a path inscribed
with love-knots . The following obligation
was then administered :
"I promise and swear by the Grand Master
of the Universe never to reveal the secrets of
the Order of the Rose ; and should I fail in this
my vow, may the mysteries I shall receive add
nothing to my pleasures, and instead of the
roses of happiness may I find nothing but the
thorns of repentance ."
The candidates were then conducted to the
mysterious groves in the neighborhood of the
Temple of Love, where the Knights received a
crown of myrtle, and the Nymphs a simple
rose . During this time a soft, melodious
march was played by the orchestra . After
this, the candidates were conducted to the
altar of mystery, placed at the foot of the
Hierophant's throne, and there incense was
offered up to Venus and her son . If it was a
Knight who had been initiated, he now ex-
changed his crown of myrtle for the rose of the
last initiated Nymph ; and if a Nymph, she
exchanged her rose for the myrtle crown of
Brother Sentiment . The Hierophant now
read a copy of verses in honor of the god of
Mystery, and the bandage was at length
taken from the eyes of the candidate . De-
licious music and brilliant lights now added

KNIGHT
to the charms of this enchanting scene, in the
midst of which the Hierophant communicated
to the candidate the modes of recognition
peculiar to the Order . 	(Clavel, Hist . Pitt .,
115-7 .)
The Order had but a brief existence . 	In
1784, F . B . von Grossing invented, in Ger-
many, an Order bearing a similar name, but
its duration was as ephemeral as that of the
French one .
Knight of the Rosy and Triple Cross .
(Chevalier de la Rose et Triple Croix .) 	A de-
gree in the Archives of the Lodge of Saint
Louis des Anais Reunis at Calais .
Knight of the Rosy Cross . 	See Royal
Order of Scotland .
Knight of the Round Table . 	(Chevalier
de la Table ronde .) 	A degree in the Archives
of the Lodge of Saint Louis des Amis Reunis
at Calais .
Knight of the Round Table of King
Arthur . 	(Chevalier de la Table ronde du Roi
Arthur .) 1 . Thory (ActaLat . i, 341) says that
this is a degree of the Primitive Rite ; but
neither Dr . Mackey nor the Rev . A . F. A .
Woodford (Kenning's Masonic Cyclopcedia)
has been able to trace the degree . 	Dr .
Mackey says that he has seen the manuscript
of a degree of this name written many years
ago, which was in the possession of Bro .
C . W . Moore, of Boston . 	It was an honorary
degree, and referred to the poetic legend of
King Arthur and his knights .
p
Knight of the Royal Ax . 	(Chevalier de
la royale Hache .) The Twenty-second Degree
of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite,
called also Prince of Libanus, or Lebanon . It
was instituted to record the memorable serv-
ices rendered to Masonry by the "mighty
cedars of Lebanon ." The legend of the degree
informs us that the Sidonians were employed
in cutting cedars on Mount Libanus or Leb-
anon for the construction of Noah's ark .
Their descendants subsequently cut cedars
from the same place for the ark of the cove-
nant ; and the descendants of these were again
employed in the same offices, and in the
same place, in obtaining materials for building
Solomon's Temple . Lastly, Zerubbabel em-
loyed them in cutting the cedars of Lebanon
or the use of the second Temple . This cele-
brated nation formed colleges on Mount Leb-
anon, and in their labors always adored the
Great Architect of the Universe . No doubt
this last sentence refers to the Druses, that
secret sect of Theists who still reside upon
Mount Lebanon and in the adjacent parts of
Syria and Palestine, and whose mysterious
ceremonies have attracted so much of the
curiosity of Eastern travelers .
The apron of the Knights of the Royal Ax
is white, lined and bordered with purple . On
it is painted a round table, on which are laid
several architectural plans . On the flap is a
three-headed serpent . The jewel is a golden
ax, having on the handle and blade the in-
itials of several personages illustrious in the
history of Masonry . 	The places of meeting
in this degree are called "Colleges ." This de-
KNIGHT 	403
gree is especially interesting to the Masonic
scholar in consequence of its evident reference
to the mystical association of the Druses,
whose connection with the Templars at the
time of the Crusades forms a yet to be investi-
gated episode in the history of Freemasonry .
Knight of the Sacred Mountain . (Cheva-
lier de la Montagne Sacree .) A degree in the
Archives of the Lodge of Saint'Louis des Amis
Reunis at Calais .
Knight of the Sanctuary . 	(Chevalier
du Sanctuaire .) The Eleventh Degree of the
Rite of the East according to the collection of
Fustier .
Knight of the Sepulcher . 	The Sixth
Degree of the system of the Grand Lodge
Royal York at Berlin .
Knight of the South . 	(Chevalier du Sud .)
The Eighth Degree of the Swedish Rite, bet-
ter known as the Favorite of St . John .
Knight of the Star . (Chevalier de l'Etoile .)
A degree in the collection of Pyron .
Knight of the Sun . (Chevalier du Soleil .)
The Twenty-eighth Degree of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite, called also Prince of
the Sun, Prince Adept, and Key of Masonry,
or Chaos Disentangled . 	It is a Kabbalistic
and Hermetic degree, and its instructions
and symbols are full of the Kabbala and Al-
chemy . Thus, one of its favorite words is Stib-
ium, which, with the Hermetic Philosophers,
meant the primal matter of all things . 	The
principal officers 	are Father Adam 	and
Brother Truth, allegorizing in the old rituals
the search of Man after Truth . 	The other
officers are named after the seven chief angels,
and the brethren are called Sylphs, or, in the
American ritual, Aralim or Heroes . The jewel
is a golden sun, having on its reverse a hemi-
sphere with the six northern signs of the zodiac .
There is but one light in the Lodge, which
shines through a globe of glass .
This degree is not confined to the Scottish
Rite, but is found sometimes with a different
name, but with the same Hermetic design,
more or less developed in other Rites . Ragon,
with whom Delaunay and Chemin-Dupontes
concur, says that it is not, like many of the
high degrees, a mere modern invention, but
that it is of the highest antiquity ; and was, in
fact, the last degree of the ancient initiations
teaching, under an Hermetic appearance, the
doctrines of natural religion, which formed an
essential part of the Mysteries . But Ragon
must here evidently refer to the general, philo-
sophic design rather than to the particular
organization of the degree . Thory (Acts Lat .,
i ., 339), with more plausibility, ascribes its in-
vention as a Masonic degree to Pernetty, the
founder of the Hermetic Rite . 	Of all the high
degrees, it is, perhaps, the most important and
the most interesting to the scholar who desires
to investigate the true secret of the Order .
Its old catechisms, now unfortunately too
much neglected, are full of suggestive thoughts,
and in its modern ritual, for which we are in-
debted to the inventive genius of Bro . Al-
bert Pike, it is by far the most learned and
philosophical of the Scottish degrees .

404 	KNIGHT
Knight of the 	Sword . 	(Chevalier de
l'Epee .) One of the titles of the Scottish Rite
degree of Knight of the East . 	So called in al-
lusion to the legend that the Masons at the
second Temple worked with the trowel in one
hand and the sword in the other . Du Cange,
on the authority of Arnoldus Lubeckius, de-
scribes an Order, in the Middle Ages, of
Knights of the Sword (Milites Gladii), who,
having vowed to wield the sword for God's
service, wore a sword embroidered on their
mantles as a sign of their profession, whence
they took their name . 	But it was not con-
nected with the Masonic degree .
Knight of the Tabernacle . 	In the Min-
ute Book of the "Grand Lodge of all Eng-
land," extracts from which are given by Bro .
Hughan in his Unpublished Records (p . 146),
we find the expression Knight of the Taber-
nacle, used in the year 1780, as synonymous
with Knight Templar .
Knight of the Tabernacle of the Divine
Truths . 	(Chevalier du Tabernacle des Veri-
tes divines .) A degree cited in the nomencla-
ture of Fustier .
Knight of the Temple . 	(Chevalier du
Temple .) 	This degree is common to all the
systems of Masonry founded on the Templar
doctrine .
1 . It is a synonym of Knights Templar .
2 . The Eighth Degree of the Rite of the
Philalethes .
3 . The Sixty-ninth Degree of the collection
of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
4 . The Sixth Degree of the Clerks of Strict
Observance .
5 . The Ninth Degree of the Rite of the East
according to the nomenclature of Fustier .
6 . The Thirty-sixth Degree of the Rite of
Mizraim .
Knight of the Three Kings . 	An Ameri-
can side degree of but little importance . Its
history connects it with the dedication of the
first Temple, the conferrer of the degree rep-
resenting King Solomon . Its moral tendency
appears to be the inculcation of reconciliation
of grievances among Masons b y friendly con-
ference . 	It may be conferred by any Master
Mason on another .
Knight of the Throne . 	(Chevalier du
Tr6ne .) The Second Degree of the Rite of the
East according to the nomenclature of Fus-
tier .
Knight of the Triple Cross . 	(Chevalier
de la Triple Croix .) The Sixty-sixth Degree of
the collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France .
Knight of the Triple Period . 	(Chevalier
de la Triple Periode .) A degree in the Archives
of the Lodge of Saint Louis des Amis Reunis
at Calais .
Knight of the Triple Sword . 	(Chevalier
de la Triple Epee .) A degree in the collection
of Pyron .
Knight of the Two Crowned Eagles .
(Chevalier des teux Aigles Couronnees .) 	The
Twenty-second Degree of the collection of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight of the West . 	(Chevalier d'Oc
KNIGHTS
cident .) 	1 . The Sixty-fourth Degree of the
collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France . 	2 . The Forty-seventh Degree of the
Rite of Mizraim .
Knight of the White and Black Eagle .
(Chevalier de l'Aigle blanc et noir .) One of the
titles of the Thirtieth Degree of the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite, or Knight Ka-
dosh . 	In the Rite of Perfection of the Em-
perors of the East and West, it constituted
the Twenty-fourth Degree, under the title of
Kni g ht Commander of the White and Black
Eagle . 	The white eagle was the emblem of
the eastern empire, and the black of the west-
ern . 	Hence we have the Knights of the
White Eagle in Russia, and the Knights of the
Black Eagle in Prussia, as orders of chivalry .
The two combined were, therefore, appropri-
ately (so far as the title is concerned) adopted
by the Council which assumed Masonic juris-
diction over both empires .
Knight of the White Eagle . 	The Sixty-
fourth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim . As a
political order, that of the Knights of the
White Eagle was instituted by Wladistas,
King of Poland, in 1325 . 	It is still conferred
by the Czar of Russia .
Knight of Unction . 	(Chevalier d'One-
tion .) The Fifty-first Degree of the collection
of the Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Knight, Perfect . 	(Chevalier Parfait .) 	A
degree of the Ancient Chapter of Clermont
found in the Archives of the Mother Lodge of
the Philosophic Rite .
Knight, Professed . See Eques Professus .
Knight, Prussian . 	See Noachite . 	Also
the Thirty-fifth Degree of the Rite of Mizraim .
Knight Rower . (Chevalier Rameur .) The
Order of the Knights and Ladies Rowers
(Ordre des Chevaliers Rameurs et Chevalieres
Rameures) was an androgynous and adoptive
Rite, founded at the city of Rouen, in France,
in 1738, and was therefre one of the earliest
instances of the adoptive system . It met
with very little success .
Knight, Royal Victorious . 	(Chevalier
royal Victorieux .) 	A degree formerly con-
ferred in the Chapter attached to the Grand
Orient of Bologne .
Knight, Sacrificing . 	(Chevalier Sacrifi-
ant .) A de gr ee found in the Archives of the
Lodge of Saint Louis des Amis R6unis at
Calais .
Knight, Victorious . 	(Chevalier Vic-
torieux .) A degree contained in the collection
of Hecart .
Knights of the East, Council of . 	(Con-
seil des Chevaliers d'Orient .) A Chapter of High
Degrees, under this name, was established at
Paris, on July 22, 1762, by one Pirlet, a tailor,
as the rival of the Council of Emperors of the
East and West . Baron de Tschoudy became
one of its members .
Knights Templar . The piety or the super-
stition of the age had induced multitudes of
pilgrims in the eleventh and twelfth centuries
to visit Jerusalem for the purpose of offering
their devotions at the sepulcher of the Lord
and the other holy place in that city . 	Many

KNIGHTS
of these religious wanderers were weak or
aged, almost all of them unarmed, and thou-
sands of them were subjected to insult to pil-
lage and often to death, inflicted by the
hordes of Arabs who, even after the capture
of Jerusalem by the Christians, continued to
infest the seacoast of Palestine and the roads
to the capital .
To protect the pious pilgrims thus exposed
to plunder and bodily outrage, nine French
knights, the followers of Baldwyn, united, in
the year 1118, in a military confraternity or
brotherhood in arms, and entered into a sol-
emn compact to aid each other in clearing the
roads, and in defending the pilgrims in their
passage to the holy city .
Two of these knights were Hugh de Payens
and Godfrey de St . Aldemar . Raynouard
(Les Templiers) says that the names of the
other seven have not been preserved in his-
tory, but Wilke (Geschichte des T . H . Ordens)
gives them as Roral, Gundemar, Godfrey
Bisol, Payens de Montidier, Archibald de St .
Aman, Andre de Montbar, and the Count of
Provence .
Uniting the monastic with the military char-
acter, they took, in the presence of the Patri-
arch of Jerusalem the usual vows of poverty,
chastity, and obedience, and with great humil-
it y assumed the title of "Poor Fellow Soldiers
of Christ ." Baldwyn, the King of Jerusalem,
assigned for their residence a part of his pal-
ace which stood near the former site of the
Temple ; and the Abbot and Canons of the
Temple gave them, as a place in which to store
their arms and magazines, the street between
the palace and the Temple, whence they de-
rived the name of Templars ; a title which
they ever afterward retained .
Raynouard says that Baldwyn sent Hugh
de Payens to Europe to solicit a new crusade,
and that while there he presented his com-
panions to Pope Honorius II ., from whom he
craved permission to form wreligious military
order in imitation of that of the Hospitalers .
The pontiff referred them to the ecclesiastical
council which was then in session at Troyes, in
Champagne . Thither De Payens repaired
and re p resented to the fathers the vocation of
himself and his companions as defenders of the
p ilgrim ; the enterprise was approved, and St .
Bernard was directed to prescribe a rule for
the infant Order .
This rule, in which the knights of the Order
are called Pauper" commilitis Christi et Tem-
ple Salomonis, or "The Poor Fellow Soldiers
of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon," is
still extant . It consists of seventy-two chap-
ters, the details of which are remarkable for
their ascetic character . It enjoined severe
devotional exercises, self-mortification, fast-
ing, and prayer . It prescribed for the pro-
fessed knights white garments as a symbol of
a pure life ; esquires and retainers were to be
clothed in black . To the white dress, Pope
Eugenius II . subse q uently added a red cross,
to be worn on the left breast as a symbol of
martyrdom .
Hugh de Payens, thus provided with a rule
KNIGHTS 	405
that gave permanence to his Order, and en-
cour ag ed by the approval of the Church, re-
turned to Jerusalem, carrying with him many
recruits from among the noblest families of
Europe .
The Templars soon became preeminently
distinguished as warriors of the cross . 	St .
Bernard, who visited them in their Temple
retreat, speaks in the warmest terms of their
self-deniatheir frugality, their modesty,
their piety, and their bravery . 	" Their
arms," he says, "are their only finery, and
they use them with courage, without dreading
either the number or the strength of the bar-
barians . All their confidence is in the Lord
of Hosts, and in fighting for his cause they
seek a sure victory or a Christian and honor-
able death ."
Their banner was the Beauseant, of divided
white and black, indicative of peace to their
friends, but destruction to their foes . At their
rece p tion each Templar swore never to turn
his back on three enemies, but should he be
alone, to fight them if they were infidels . It
was their wont to say that a Templar ought
either to vanquish or die, since he had nothing
to give for his ransom but his girdle and his
knife .
The Order of the Temple, at first exceed-
ingly simple in its organization became in a
short time very complicated . 1?n the twelfth
century it was divided into three classes,
which were Kn ights, Chaplains, and Serving
Brethren .
1 . The Knights . 	It was required that who-
ever presented himself for admission into' the
Order must prove that he was sprung from a
knightly family, and was born in lawful wed-
lock ; that he was free from all previous obli-
gations ; that he was neither married nor be-
trothed ; that he had not made any vows of
reception in another Order ; that he was not
involved in debt ; and finally, that he was of a
sound and healthy constitution of body .
2 . The Chaplains . 	The Order of the Tem-
ple, unlike that of the Hospitalers, consisted
at first only of laymen . But the bull of Pope
Alexander III ., issued in 1162, gave the Tem-
plars permission to receive into their houses
spiritual persons who were not bound by pre-
vious vows, the technical name of whom was
chaplains . They were required to serve a
novitiate of a year . The reception was, except
in a few points not applicable to the clergy,
the same as that of the knights, and they
were required to take only the three vows of
poverty, chastity, and obedience . Their du-
ties were to perform all religious offices, and to
officiate at all the ceremonies of the Order,
such as the admission of members at installa-
tions, etc . Their privileges were, however, un-
important, and consisted p rincipally in sitting
next to the Master, and being first served at
table .
3 . The Serving Brethren . 	The only qualifi
cation required of the serving brethren, was,
that they should be free born and not slaves ;
yet it is not to be supposed that all the persons
of this class were of mean condition . Many

406, 	KNIGHTS
men, not of noble birth, but of wealth and
high position were found among the serving
brethren . They fought in the field under the
knights, and performed at home the menial
offices of the household . At first there was
but one class of them, but afterward they
were divided into two-the Brethren-at-Arms
and the Handicraft Brethren . The former were
the soldiers of the Order . The latter, who were
the most esteemed, remained in the Precep-
tories, and exercised their various trades, such
as those of farriers, armorers, etc . The recep-
tion of the serving brethren did not differ,
except in some necessary particulars, from
that of the knights . They were, however, by
the accident of their birth, precluded from pro-
motion out of their class .
Besides these three classes there was a
fourth-not, however, living in the bosom of
the Order-who were called Afliati or the
Affiliated . 	These were persons of various
ranks and of both sexes, who were recognized
by the Order, though not openly connected
with it, as entitled to its protection and ad-
mitted to a participation in some of its priv-
ileges, sueh as protection from the interdicts
of the Church, which did not apply to the
members of the Order .
There was also a class called Donates or
Donats . 	These were either youths whom
their parents destined for the service of the
Order when they had attained the proper age
or adults who had bound themselves to aid
and assist the Order so long as they lived,
solely from their admiration of it, and a desire
to share its honors .
Over these presided the Grand Master, more
usually styled, in the early days of the Order,
simply the Master of the Temple . In the
treaty of peace executed in 1178, between the
Templars and the Hospitalers, Odo de St .
Armand calls himself "Humble Master of the
Order of the Temple ." But in after times this
spirit of humility was lost sight of, and the
title of Grand Master was generally accorded
to him . His allowances were suitable to the
distinguished rank he held, for in the best days
of the Order the Grand Master was consid-
ered as the equal of a sovereign .
The Grand Master resided originally at
Jerusalem ; afterward, when that city was
lost, at Acre, and finally at Cyprus . His duty
always required him to be in the Holy Land ;
he consequently never resided in Europe . He
was elected for life from among the knights in
the following manner : On the death of the
Grand Master, a Grand Prior was chosen to
administer the affairs of the Order until a suc-
cessor could be elected . When the day which
had been appointed for the election arrived
the Chapter usually assembled at the chief
seat of the Order ; three or more of the most
esteemed knights were then proposed ; the
Grand Prior collected the votes, and he who
had received the greatest number was nom-
inated to be the electing Prior . An Assistant
was then associated with him, in the person
of another knight . These two remained all
night in the chapel, engaged in prayer . In the
KNIGHTS
morning, they chose two others, and these
four, two more, and so on until the number of
twelve (that of the apostles) had been se-
lected . The twelve then selected a Chaplain .
The thirteen then proceeded to vote for a
Grand Master, who was elected by a majority
of the votes . When the election was completed,
it was announced to the assembled brethren ;
and when all had promised obedience, the
Prior, if the person was present, said to him
" In the name of God the Father, the Son, and
the Holy Ghost, we have chosen, and do
choose thee, Brother N ., to be our Master ."
Then, turning to the brethren, he said, " Be-
loved Sirs and Brethren, give thanks unto
God ; behold here our Master ." The Chap-
lains then chanted the Te Deum ; and the
brethren, taking their new Master in their
arms, carried him into the chapel and placed
him before the altar, where he continued
kneeling, while the brethren prayed, and the
Chaplains repeated the Kyrie Eleison, the
Paten Noster, and other devotional exercises .
Next in rank to the Grand Master was the
Seneschal, who was his representative and
lieutenant . Then came the Marshal, who was
the General of the Order . 	Next was the
Treasurer, an office that was always united
with that of Grand Preceptor of Jerusalem .
He was the Admiral of the Order . The Draper,
the next officer in rank, had charge of the
clothing of the Order . He was a kind of Com-
missary General . The Turcopolier was the
Commander of the light-horse . There was also
a class of officers called Visitors, whose duties,
as their name imports, was to visit the differ-
ent Provinces, and correct abuses . There were
also some subordinate offices appropriated to
the Serving Brethren, such as Sub marshal,
Standard Bearer, Farrier, etc .
These officers, with the Grand Preceptors of
the Provinces and the most distinguished
knights who could attend constituted the
General Chapter or great legislative assem-
bly of the Order, where all laws and regula-
tions were made and great officers elected .
This assembly was not often convened, and
in the intervals its powers were exercised by
the Chapter of Jerusalem .
The Order thus organized, as it increased
in prosperity and augmented its possessions
in the East and in Europe, was divided into
Provinces, each of which was governed by a
Grand Preceptor or Grand Prior ; for the titles
were indiscriminately used . That, however,
of Preceptor was peculiar to the Templars,
while that of Prior was common both to them
and to the Knights Hospitalers of St . John .
These Provinces were fifteen in number, and
were as follows : Jerusalem, Tripolis, Antioch,
Cyprus, Portugal, Castile and Leon, Aragon,
France and Auvergne, Normandy, Aquitaine,
Provence, England, including Scotland and
Ireland ; Germany, Upper and Central Italy,
and A p ulia and Sicily . Hence it will be seen
that there was no part of Europe, except the
impoverished kingdoms of Denmark, Sweden,
and Norway, where the Templars had not ex-
tended their possessions and their influence .

KNIGHTS
In all the Provinces there were numerous
temple-houses called Preceptories, presided
over by a Preceptor . In each of the larger
Preceptories there was a Chapter, in which
local regulations were made and members were
received into the Order .
The reception of a knight into the Order was
a very solemn ceremonial . It was secret,
none but members of the Order bein g per-
mitted to be present . In this it differed from
that of the Knights of Malta, whose form of
reception was open and public ; and it is to
this difference, between a public reception
and a secret initiation, that may, perhaps, be
attributed a portion of the spirit of persecu-
tion exhibited by the Church to the Order in
its latter days .
Of this reception, the best and most au-
thentic account is given by Munter in his
Statutenbuch des Ordens der Tempelherren
(pp . 29-42), and on that I shall principally rely .
On the day of the reception, the Master
and the knights being in the Chapter, the
Master said :
"Beloved Knights and Brethren, ye see that
the majority are willing that this man shall be
received as a brother . 	If there be among
you any one who knows anything concerning
him, wherefor he cannot rightfully become a
brother, let him say so . For it is better that
this should be made known beforehand than
after he has been brought before us ." All
being silent, the candidate is conducted into
an adjoining chamber . Two or three of the
oldest kni g hts are sent to him to warn him of
the difficulties and hardships that he will have
to encounter ; or, as the Benedictine rule says
all the hard and rough ways that lead to
-"omnia dura et aspera, per quse itur ad
Deum . "
They commenced by saying : "Brother, do
you seek the fellowship of the Order?" If he
replied affirmatively, they warned him of the
rigorous services which would be demanded
of him . Should he reply that he was willing
to endure all for the sake of God and to be-
come the slave of the Order, they further asked
him if he were married or betrothed ; if he had
ever entered any other Order ; if he owed more
than he could pay ; if he was of sound body ;
and if he was of free condition? If his re-
plies were satisfactory, his examiners returned
to the Chapter room and made report ; where-
upon the Master again inquired if any one
present knew anything against the candidate .
All being silent, he asked : "Are you willing
that he should be received in God's-name?"
and all the knights answered : "Let him be re-
ceived in God s name ." His examiners then
returned to him and asked him if he still per-
sisted in his intention . If he replied that he
did, they gave him the necessary instructions
how he should act, and led him to the door of
the Chapter room . There entering he cast
himself on his knees before the Master, with
folded hands, and said : "Sir, I am come be-
fore God, before you and the brethren, and
p ra y and beseech you, for God and our dear
Lady's sake, to admit me into your fellowship
KNIGHTS 	407
and to the good deeds of the Order, as one who
will for all his life long be the servant and slave
of the Order ."
The Master replied : "Beloved Brother,
you are desirous of a great matter, for you see
nothi ng but the outward shell of our Order .
It is only the outward shell when you see that
we have fine horses and rich caparisons, that
we eat and drink well, and are splendidly
clothed . From this you conclude that you
will be well off with us . But you know not the
rigorous maxims which are in our interior .
For it is a hard matter for you, who are your
own master, to become the servant of another .
You will hardly be able to perform, in future,
what you wish yourself . For when you wish
to be on this side of the sea, you will be sent
to the other side ; when you will wish to be in
Acre, you will be sent to the district of Anti-
och, to Tripolis, or to Armenia ; or you will be
sent to Apulia to Sicily, or to Lombardy, or
to Burgundy, France, England, or any other
country where we have houses and possessions .
When you will wish to sleep, you will be
ordered to watch ; when you will wish to
watch, then you will be ordered to go to bed ;
when you will wish to eat, then you will be
ordered to do something else . And as both
we and you might suffer great inconvenience
from what you have, mayhap, concealed from
us, look here on the holy Evangelists and the
word of God, and answer the truth to the ques-
tions which we shall put to you ; for if you lie,
you will be perjured and may be expelled the
Order, from which Go od keep you!"
The questions which had been before asked
him by his examiners were then repeated more
at large, with the additional one whether fie
had made any contract with a Templar or
an other person to secure his admission .
answers being satisfactory, the Master
proceeded : "Beloved Brother, take good heed
that you have spoken truth to us, for should
you in any one point have spoken falsely, you
would be put out of the Order, from which
God preserve you . Now, beloved Brother,
heed well what we shall say to you . Do you
promise God and Mary, our dear Lady, that
your life long you will be obedient to the Mas-
ter of the Temple and the Prior who is set over
you? "
"Yes, Sir, God willing ."
"Do you promise God and Mary, our dear
Lady all your life long to live chaste in your
body t? "
"Yes, Sir, God willing ."
"Do you p romise God and Mary, our dear
Lady, your life long to observe the laudable
manners and customs of our Order, those
which now are and those which the Master
and knights may hereafter ordain?"
"Yes, Sir, God willing ."
"Do you promise God and M ary, our dear
Lady, that your life long you will, with the
power and strength that God gives you, help
to conquer the holy land of Jerusalem, and
with your best power you will help to keep and
guard that which the Christians possess?"
"Yes, Sir, God willing ."

408 	KNIGHTS
"Do you promise God and Mary, our dear
Lady, never to hold this Order for stronger or
weaker, for worse or for better, but with the
permission of the Master or the convent which
has the authority? "
"Yes, Sir, God willing ."
"Finally, do you promise God and Mary,
our dear Lady, that you will never be present
when a Christian shall be unjustly and unlaw-
fully despoiled of his heritage, and that you
will never by counsel or act take part therein?"
"Yes, Sir, God willing ."
Then the Master said : "Thus, in the name
of God and Mary our dear Lady, and in the
name of St . Peter of Rome, and our Father the
Pope, and in the name of all the Brethren of
the Temple, we receive you to all the good
works of the Order which have been done from
the beginning, and shall be done to the end,
you, your father, your mother, and all your
lineage, who you are willing shall have a share
therein . 	In like manner do you receive us
into all the good works which you have done
or shall do . 	We assure you bread and water,
and the poor clothing of the Order, and toil
and labor in abundance ."
The Chaplain then read the 133d Psalm and
the prayer of the Holy Ghost, Deus qui cords
fidelium, and the brethren repeated the Lord's
prayer . 	The Prior and the Chaplain gave the
recipient the fraternal kiss . 	He was then
seated before the Master, who delivered to
him a discourse on his duties and obligations
as a member of the Order .
These duties may be thus summed up : He
was never to assault a Christian, nor swear,
nor receive any attendance from a woman
without the permission of his superiors ; not
to kiss a woman, even his mother or sister ; to
hold no child to the baptismal font ; and
to abuse no man, but to be courteous to all .
He was to sleep in a linen shirt, drawers and
hose, and girded with a small girdle ; to at-
tend Divine service punctually, and to begin
and end his meals with a prayer .
Such is the formula of reception, which has
been collected by Munter from the most au-
thentic sources . It is evident, however, that
it is not complete . The secret parts of the
ritual are omitted, so that the formula is here
something like what a Freemason would call
the monitorial part of the instruction . Munter
does not even give the form of the oath taken
by the candidate ; although Raynouard says
that it is preserved in the Archives of the
Abbey of Alcobaza, in Aragon, and gives it in
the following words, on the authority of Hen-
riguez in his Regula, etc ., Ordinis Cisterniensis :
"I swear to consecrate my discourse, my
arms, my faculties, and my life, to the de-
fence of the sacred mysteries of the faith, and
to that of the unity of God . I also~ promise to
be submissive and obedient to the Grand Mas-
ter of the Order . . 	. At all times that it may
be necessary, I will cross the seas to go to bat-
tle ; I will contribute succor against infidel
kings and princes ; Twill not turn my back on
three foes ; and even if I be alone, I will fight
them if they are infidels ."
KNIGHTS
The fact that the Templars had a secret
initiation is now generally conceded, although
a few writers have denied it . 	But the cir-
cumstantial evidence in its favor is too great
to be overcome by anything except positive
proof to the contrary, which has never been
adduced . 	It is known that at these recep-
tions none but members of the Order were ad-
mitted ; a prohibition which would have been
unnecessary if the ceremonies had not been
secret . 	In the meetings of the General Chap-
ter of the Order, even the Pope's Legate was
refused admission .
It would not be fair to quote the one hun-
dred and twenty accusations preferred against
the Templars by Clement, because they were
undoubtedly malicious falsehoods invented by
an unprincipled Pontiff pandering to the
cupidity of an avaricious monarch ; but yet
some of them are of such a nature as to indi-
cate what was the general belief of men at the
time . 	Thus, Art . 32 says : "Quod recep-
tiones istius clandestine faciebant" ; i . e ., that
they were wont to have their receptions in secret .
The 100th is in these words : "Quod sic se
includunt ad tenenda capitula ut omnes jan-
uas domus et eccleshe in quibus tenent capit-
ula ferment adeo firmiter quod nullus sit nec
esse possit accessus ad eos nec juxta : ut possit
quicunque videre vel audire de factis vel-
dictis eorum" ; i . e ., that when they held their
Chapters, they shut all the doors of the house or
church in which they met so closely that no one
could approach near enough to see or hear what
they were doing and saying . 	And the next
article is more particular, for it states that,
to secure themselves against eavesdroppers,
they were accustomed to place a watch, as
we should now say a tiler, upon the roof of
the house, "excubicum super tectum," who
could give the necessary warning .
Of course it is impossible to obtain an ac-
curate knowledge of all the details of this
secret reception of the ancient Templars,
since it must have been generally oral ; but
I have always been inclined to think, from
allusions here and there scattered through
the history of their customs, that many of its
features have descended to us, and are to be
found in the ritual of initiation practised by
the Masonic Knights Templar .
The dress of the Templars was prescribed
for them by St . Bernard, in the rule which he
composed for the government of the Order,
and is thus described in Chapter XX .
"To 	all the 	pro-
fessed knights, both in
winter and summer,
we give, if they can
be procured, white gar-
ments, that those who
have cast behind them
a dark life, may know
that they are to com-
mend themselves to
their Creator 	by a
pure and white life ." 	The white mantle was
therefore the peculiar vestment of the Tem-
plars, as the black was of the Hospitalers .

KNIGHTS
The general direction of St . Bernard as to
clothing was afterward expanded, so that the
dress of a Templar consisted of a long, white
tunic, nearly resembling that of a priest's in
shape, with a red cross on the front and back ;
under this was his linen shirt clasped by a
girdle . Over all was the white mantle with
the red cross pattee . The head was covered by
a cap or hood attached to the mantle . The
arms were a sword, lance, mace, and shield .
Although at first the Order adopted as a seal
the representation of two knights riding on
one horse, as a mark of their poverty, subse-
quently each knight was provided with three
horses, and an esquire selected usually from
the class of Serving Brethren .
To write the history of the Templar Order
for the two centuries of its existence would,
says Addison, be to write the Latin history of
Palestine, and would occupy a volume . Its
details would be accounts of glorious struggles
with the infidel in defense of the Holy Land,
and of Christian pilgrimage, sometimes suc-
cessful and often disastrous ; of arid sands
well moistened with the blood of Christian
and Saracen warriors ; of disreputable con-
tests with its rival of St . John ; of final
forced departure from the places which its
prowess had conquered, but which it had
not strength to hold, and of a few years of
luxurious, and it may be of licentious indo-
lence, terminated by a cruel martyrdom and
dissolution .
The fall of Acre in 1292, under the vigorous
assault of the Sultan Mansour, led at once
to the evacuation of Palestine by the Chris-
tians . The Knights Hospitalers of St . John
of Jerusalem, afterward called Knights of
Rhodes, and then of Malta, betook themselves
to Rhodes, where the former, assuming a naval
character, resumed the warfare in their galleys
against the Mohammedans . 	The 	Tem-
plars, after a brief stay in the island of
Cyprus, retired to their different Precepto-
ries in Europe .
Porter (Hist . K . of Malta, i ., 174) has no
panegyric for these recreant knights . After
eulogizing the Hospitalers for the persevering
energy with which, from their island home of
Rhodes, they continued the war with the in-
fidels, he says :
"The Templar, on the other hand, after a
brief sojourn in Cyprus, instead of rendering
the smallest assistance to his chivalrous and
knightly brethren in their new undertaking,
hurried with unseemly haste to his numerous
wealthy European Preceptories, where the
grossness of his licentiousness, the height of his
luxury, and the arrogance of his pride, soon
rendered him an object of the most invincible
hatred among those who possessed ample
power to accomplish his overthrow . During
these last years of their existence little can be
said in defense of the Order ; and although the
barbarous cruelty with which their extinction
was accomplished has raised a feeling of com-
passion in their behalf, which bids fair to efface
the memory of their crimes, still it cannot be
denied that they had of late years so far de-
KNIGHTS 	409
viated from the original purposes of their
Institution as to render them highly unfit de-
positaries of that wealth which had been
bequeathed to them for purposes so widely dif-
ferent from those to which they had appro-
priated it ."
The act of cruelty and of injustice by which
the Templar Order was dissolved in the four-
teenth century, has bequeathed an inglorious
memory on the names of the infamous king
and no less infamous pope, who accomplished
it . In the beginning of the fourteenth cen-
tury, the throne of France was filled by
Philip the Fair, an ambitious, a vindictive
and an avaricious prince . In his celebra
controversy with Pope Boniface, the Templars
had, as was usual with them, sided with the
pontiff and opposed the king ; this act excited
his hatred : the Order was enormously wealthy ;
this aroused his avarice ; their power inter-
fered with his designs of political aggrandize-
ment ; and this alarmed his ambition . He,
therefore, secretly concerted with Pope Clem-
ent V . a plan for their destruction, and the
appropriation of their revenues . Clement,
by his direction, wrote in June, 1306, to
De Molay, the Grand Master, who was then
at Cyprus, inviting him to come and consult
with him on some matters of great impor-
tance to the Order . De Molay obeyed the
summons, and arrived in the beginning of
1307 at Paris, with sixty knights and a large
amount of treasure . He was immediately
imprisoned, and, on the thirteenth of October
following, every knight in France was, in con-
sequence of the secret orders of the king, ar-
rested on the pretended charge of idolatry,
and other enormous crimes, of which Squin de
Flexian, a renegade and expelled Prior of
the Order, was said to have confessed that
the knights were guilty in their secret
Chapters .
What these charges were has not been left
to conjecture . Pope Clement sent a list of the
articles of accusation, amounting to one hun-
dred and twenty in number, to all the arch-
bishops, bishops, and Papal commissaries
upon which to examine the knights who should
be brought before them . This list is still in
existence, and in it we find such charges as
these : 1 . That they required those who were
received into the Order to abjure Christ, the
Blessed Virgin, and all the saints . 7 . That
they denied that Christ had suffered for man's
redemptipn . 9 . That they made their re
cipient spit upon the cross or the crucifix .
14 . That they worshiped a cat in their assem-
blies . 	16 . That they did not believe in the
eucharistic sacrifice . 20 . That they said
that the Grand Master had the power of ab-
solution . 26 . That they practised obscene
ceremonies in their receptions . 32 . That
their receptions were secret ; a charge re-
peated in articles 97, 98, 99, 100, and 101, in
different forms . 42 . That they had an idol,
which was a head with one or with three faces,
and sometimes a human skull . 52, 53 . That
they exercised magic arts .
On such preposterous charges as these the

410 	KNIGHTS
knights were tried, and of course, as a fore-
gone conclusion, condemned . On the 12th of
May, 1310, fifty-four of the knights were pub-
licly burnt, and on the 18th of March, 1313,
De Molay, the Grand Master, and the three
principal dignitaries of the order, suffered
the same fate . They died faithfully assert-
ing their innocence of all the crimes imputed
to them . The Order was now, by the energy
of the King of France, assisted by the spiritual
authority of the pope suppressed throughout
Europe . So much of its vast possessions as
were not appropriated by the different sover-
eigns to their own use, or to that of their f av-
orites, was bestowed upon the Order of the
Knights of Malta, whose acceptance of the
donation did not tend to diminish the ill
feeling which had always existed between the
members of the two Orders .
As to the story of the continuation of the
Order, after the death of James de Molay, by
Johannes Larmenius, under the authority of
a charter of transmission given to him by
De Molay a few days before his death,
that subject is more appropriately treated
in the history of the Order of the Temple,
which claims by virtue of this charter, to
be the regular successor of the ancient
Order .
From the establishment of the Order by
Hugh de Payens, until its dissolution during
the Mastership of De Molay, twenty-two
Grand Masters presided over the Order, of
whom the following is an accurate list, com-
piled on the authority of Addison . The roll
of Grand Masters in the Rite of Strict Ob-
servance, and that in the Order of the Tem-
(See Trans . Quar . Car ., vol . XX .)
Knights Templar, Masonic . 	The con-
nection of the Knights Templar with the Free-
masons may much more plausibly be traced
than that of the Knights of Malta . Yet, un-
fortunately, the sources from which informa-
KNIGHTS
tion is to be derived are for the most part
traditionary ; authentic dates and documents
are wanting . Tradition has always been in-
clined to trace the connection to an early per-
iod, and to give to the Templar system of
secret reception a Masonic character, derived
from their association during the Crusades
with the mystical Society of the Assassins in
Syria . Lawrie (Hist ., p . 87), or Sir David
Brewster, the real author of the work which
bears Lawrie's name, embodies the tradition
in this form :
"Almost all the secret associations of the
ancients either flourished or originated in
Syria and the adjacent countries . It was
here that the Dionysian artists, the Essenes
and the Kasideans arose . From this country
also came several members of that trading as-
sociation of Masons which appeared in Europe
during the dark ages ; and we axe assured,
that, notwithstanding the unfavorable con-
dition of that province, there exists at this
day, on Mount Libanus, one of these Syriac
fraternities . As the Order of the Templars
therefore, was originally formed in Syria, and
existed there for a considerable time, it would
be no improbable supposition that they re-
ceived their Masonic knowledge from the
Lodges in that quarter . But we are fortu-
nately, in this case, not left to conjecture, for
we are expressly informed by a foreign author
[Adler, de Drusis], who was well acquainted
with the history and customs of Syria, that
the Knights Templar were actually members
of the Syriac fraternities ."
Even if this hypothesis were true, although
it might probably suggest the origin of the
secret reception of the Templars, it would not
explain the connection of the modern Tem-
plars with the Freemasons, because there is no
evidence that these Syriac fraternities were
Masonic .
There are four sources from which the Ma-
sonic Templars are said to have derived their
existence ; making, therefore, as many differ-
ent divisions of the Order .
1 . The Templars who claim John Mark
Larmenius as the successor of James de
Molay .
2. Those who recognize Peter d'Aumont as
the successor of De Molay .
3 . Those who derive their Templarism
from the Count Beaujeu, the nephew of
Mola
4 . Those who claim an independent origin,
and repudiate alike the authority of Lar-
menius, of Aumont, and of Beaujeu .
From the first class spring the Templars of
France, who professed to have continued the
Order by authority of a charter given by De
Molay to Larmenius . This body of Templars
designate themselves as the "Order of the
Temple ." Its seat is in Paris . The Duke of
Sussex received from it the degree and the au-
thority to establish a Grand Conclave in Eng-
land . He did so ; and convened that body
once, but only once . During the remaining
years of his life, Templarism had no activity
m England, as he discountenanced all Chris-
plar, differ in several names ;
are destitute of authenticity .
but these rolls
1 . Hugh de Payens, 	elected in 1118 .
2 . Robert of Burgundy, 	" 	1136 .
3 . Everard de Barri, 	1146 .
4 . Bernard de Tremellay, 	" 	1151 .
5 . Bertrand de Blanquefort, 	" 	1154 .
6 . Philip of Naplous, 	91 	1167 .
7. Odo de St . Amand, 	" 	1170 .
8 . Arnold de Troye, 	" 	1180 .
9 . Gerard de Ridefort, 	" 	1185 .
10 . Brother Walter, 	`{ 	1189 .
11 . Robert de Sable, 	" 	1191 .
12 . Gilbert Horal, 	" 	1195 .
13 . Philip de Plessis, 	" 	1201 .
14 . William de Chartres, 	" 	1217 .
15 . Peter de Montaigu, 	" 	1218 .
16 . Hermann de Perigord, 	" 	1236 .
17 . William de Sonnac, 	1245 .
18 . Reginald de Vichier, 	" 	1252 .
19 . Thomas Berard, 	" 	1256 .
20 . William de Beaujeu, 	" 	1273 .
21 . Theobald de Gaudini, 	" 	1291 .
22 . James de Molay, 	1297 .

KNIGHTS
tian and chivalric Masonry . 	(Sae Temple,
Order of the .)
E
The second division of Templars is that
which is founded on the theory that Peter
d'Aumont fled with several knights into
Scotland, and there united with the Free-
masons . This legend is intimately connected
with Ramsay's tradition-that Freemasonry
sprang from Templarism, and that all Free-
masons are Knights Templar . The Chapter
of Clermont adopted this theory ; and in es-
tablishing their high degrees asserted that
they were derived from these Templars of
Scotland . The Baron Hund carried the the-
' into Germany, and on it established his
Rite of Strict Observance, which was a Tem-
plar system . Hence the Templars of Ger-
many must be classed under the head of the
followers of Aumont . (See Strict Observance .)
The third division is that which asserts
that the Count Beaujeu, a nephew of the last
Grand Master, De Molay and a member of the
Order of Knights of Christ-the name as-
sumed by the Templars of Portugal-had re-
ceived authority from that Order to dissem-
inate the degree . He is said to have carried
the degree and its ritual into Sweden, where
he incorporated it with Freemasonry . The
story is, too, that Beaujeu collected his uncle's
ashes and interred them in Stockholm, where a
monument was erected to his memory . Hence
the Swedish Templar Masons claim their de-
scent from Beaujeu, and the Swedish Rite is
through this source a Templar system .
Of the last class, or the Templars who rec-
'zed the authority of neither of the leaders
w o have been mentioned, there were two sub-
divisions, the Scotch and the English ; for it is
only in Scotland and England that this inde-
pendent Templarism found a foothold .
It was only in Scotland that the Templars
endured no persecution . Long after the dis-
solution of the Order in every other country
of Europe, the Scottish Preceptor' es continued
to exist, and the knights lived undisturbed .
One portion of the Scottish Templars entered
the army of Robert Bruce, and, after the
battle of Bannockburn, were merged in the
" Royal Order of Scotland," then established
by him . 	(See Royal Order of Scotland .)
Another portion of the Scottish Templars
united with the Knights Hospitalers of St .
John . 	They lived amicably in the same
houses, and continued to do so until the
Reformation . At this time many of them em-
braced Protestantism . Some of them united
with the Freemasons, and established "the
Ancient Lodge" at Stirling, where they con-
ferred the degrees of Knight of the Sepulcher,
Knight of Malta, and Knights Templar . It
is to this division that we are to trace the
Masonic Templars of Scotland .
The Roman Catholic knights remaining
in the Order placed themselves under David
Seaton . Lord Dundee afterward became their
Grand Master . Charles Edward, the "Young
Pretender," is said to have been admitted into
the Order at Holyrood House, Edinbur 	on
September 24, 1745, and made the rand
KNIGHTS 	411
Master . He is also said, but without any
proof, to have established the Chapter of
Arras and the high degrees .* To this branch,
I think, there can be but little doubt that we
are to attribute the Templar system of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite as devel-
oped in its degree of Kadosh .
The English Masonic Templars are most
probably derived from that body called the
"Baldwyn Encampment," or from some one
of the four coordinate Encampments of Lon-
don, Bath, York, and Salisbury, which it is
claimed were formed by the members of the
Preceptory which had long existed at Bristol,
and who on the dissolution of their Order, are
supposed to have united with the Masonic
Fraternity . The Baldwyn Encampment claims
to have existed from "time immemorial"-
an indefinite period-but we can trace it back
far enough to give it a priority over all other
English Encampments . From this division
of the Templars, repudiating all connection
with Larmenius, with Aumont, or any other of
the self-constituted leaders, but tracing its
origin to the independent action of knights
who fled for security and for perpetuity into
the body of Masonry, we may be held justly
entitled to derive the Templars of the United
States .
Of this brief statement, we may make the
following summary :
1 . From Larmenius came the French Tem-
plars .
2 . From Aumont, the German Templars of
Strict Observance .
3 . From Beaujeu, the Swedish Templars
of the Rite of Zinnendorf .
4 . From the Protestant Templars of Scot-
land and the Ancient Lodge of Stirling, the
Scotch Templars .
5 . From Prince Charles Edward and his ad-
herents, the Templars of the Ancient and Ac-
cepted Scottish Rite .
6 . From the Baldwyn Encampment and its
coordinates, the old English and the Amer-
ican Templars .
The GOVERNMENT of Masonic Knights
Templar in the United States is vested, first,
in Commanderies, which confer the Red Cross
and Templar degrees and instruct in the
secrets of Malta . t The usual expression, that
a candidate after being made a Fights Tem-
plar is also created a Knight of Malta, in-
volves an absurdity . No man being a Knights
Templar could, by the original statutes, be a
member of any other Order ; and it is to be re-
gretted that the wise provision of the Grand
Encampment in 1856, which struck the degree
of Malta from the ritual of the Commanderies,
should have been in 1862 unwisely repealed .
The secrets in which the candidate is in-
structed are the modern inventions of the Ma-
sonic Knights of Malta . The original Order
had no secrets .
* For a critical examination of this story see
Hughan's Jacobite Lodge at Rome, ch . 3 .
[E . L . H .]
t See foot-note after Knights of Malta .

412 	KNIGHTS
Commanderies are under the control of
Grand Commanderies in States in which those
bodies exist . Where they do not, the Warrants
are derived directly from the Grand Encamp-
ment .
p
The supreme authority of the Order is ex-
ercised by the Grand Encampment of the
United States, which meets triennially . The
residi ng officer is a Grand Master .
The Cosruxx of the Knights Templar of the
United States is of two kinds . 	First, the orig-
inal uniform, which was in general use until
the year 1859, and is still used by Comman-
deries which were in existence before that
time . It is thus described :
The suit is black, with black gloves . A
black velvet sash, trimmed with silver lace,
crosses the body from the left shoulder to right
hip, having at its end a cross-hilted .dagger, a
black rose on the left shoulder, and a Maltese
cross at the end . 	Where the sash crosses the
left breast, is a nine-pointed star in silver,
with a cross and serpent of gold in the center,
within a circle, around which are the words,
"in hoc signo vinces ." The apron is of black
velvet, in triangular form, to represent the
delta, and edged with silver lace . 	On its flap
is placed a triangle of silver, perforated with
twelve holes, with a cross and serpent in the
center ; on the center of the apron are a skull
and crossbones, between three stars of seven
points, having a red cross in the center of each .
The belt is black to which is attached a cross-
hilted sword . 	'the caps vary in form and
decoration in different Encampments . 	The
standard is black, bearing a nine-pointed cross
of silver, having in its center a circle of green,
with the cross and serpent in gold, and the
motto around "in hoc signo vinces ."
In 1859 the Grand Encampment enacted
a statute providing that all Commanderies
which might be thereafter chartered should
rovide a new costume of an entirely different
d, which should also be adopted by thold
Commanderies whenever they should change
their uniform . 	This new costume was further
altered in 1862 and is now of the following
description, as detailed in the statute :
Full Dress .-Black frock coat, black panta-
loons, scarf, sword, belt, shoulder straps, gaunt-
lets, and chapeau, with appropriate trimmings .
Fatigue Dress .-Same as full dress, except
for chapeau a black cloth cap, navy form, with
appropriate cross in front, and for gauntlets,
white gloves .
Scarf .-Five inches wide in the whole, of
white, bordered with black one inch on either
side, a strip of navy lace one-fourth of an inch
wide, at the inner edge of the black . 	On the
front center of the scarf a metal star of nine
points, in allusion to the nine founders of the
Temple Order, enclosing the Passion Cross,
surrounded by the Latin motto, "in hoc
signo vines" ; the star to be three and three-
quarter inches in diameter . The scarf to be
worn from the right shoulder to the left hip,
with the ends extending six inches below the
point of intersection .
Chapeau .-The military chapeau, trimmed
KNIGHTS
with black binding, one white and two black
plumes, and appropriate cross on the left side .
Gauntlets .-Of buff leather, the flap to ex-
tend four inches upward from the wrist, and
to have the appropriate cross embroidered in
gold, on the proper colored velvet, two inches
in length .
Sword .-Thirty-four to forty inches, in-
clusive of scabbard ; helmet head, cross han-
dle and metal scabbard .
nelt .-fled enameled or patent leather, two
inches wide, fastened round the body with
buckle or clasp .
From what has been said it will appear
that there are two modes of cress or costume
in use among the Templars of the United
States--one, the old or "black uniform,"
which was adopted at the first organization of
the Order in this country and which is still
used by the old Commanderies which were in
existence previous to the year 1859 ; and the
new or "white uniform," which was adopted
by the Grand Encampment in that year and
which has been prescribed for all Com-
manderies chartered since that year .
This difference of costume has recently
been the occasion of much discussion in the
Order . 	In 1872 Sir J . Q A . Fellows, the
Grand Master, thinking that it was his duty
to enforce a uniform dress in the Order, issued
his decree requiring all the Commanderies in
the United States which were then using
"the black uniform," to abandon it, and to
adopt "the white uniform," which had been
origmally ordered in 1859, and subsequently
amended in 1862 . Much opposition has been
manifested to this order in the Commanderies
and Grand Commanderies where the black
costume was in use . 	The Grand Master's
interpretation of the statute of the Grand En-
campment has been doubted or denied, and
the order has been virtually disobeyed by
most, if not by all of them . 	The question has
assumed great importance in consequence of
the feeling that has been created, and is there-
fore worthy of discussion . 	Dr . Mackey's
views were against the correctness of the
Grand Master's interpretation of the law, and
so were those of the living Past Grand Masters
of the Order . It is, however, but fair to say
that some distinguished Templars have been
of a different opinion . 	The following views
advanced by Dr . Mackey in the National
Freemason in December, 1872, express what he
thought was the true condition of the ques-
tion .
Previous to the year 1859 the costume of
the Knights Templar of this country was
determined only by a traditional rule, and
consisted of a 	ack dress, with the richly dec-
orated baldric and apron ; the latter intended
to show the connection which existed between
the Order and Ancient Craft Masonry .
In 1856, at Hartford, a new Constitution
was proposed and adopted, with the exception
of the part that referred to costume . 	Sir
Knight Mackey, from the committee on the
Constitution, made a report on the subject of
dress, as a part of the Constitution ; but the

KNIGHTS
consideration of this report was postponed
until the next triennial meeting . The changes
in costume proposed by the committee were
not very great ; the baldric and the essential
apron were preserved, and a white tunic, not
hitherto used was recommended .
At the session of 1859, at Chicago, the sub-
ject of dress was alluded to by the Grand Mas-
ter in his address ; and his remarks, together
with the report of the committee made in
1856, were referred to a special committee of
seven, of which the Grand Master was chair-
man and Sir Knights Doyle, Pike, Simons,
Matey, Morris, and French were the mem-
bers .
This committee reported a uniform which
made material differences in the dress there-
tofore worn, and especially by the rejection of
the apron and the introduction of a white
tunic and a white cloak . These last were fav-
orite notions of Grand Master Hubbard, and
they were adopted by the committee mainly
in deference to his high authority .
The proposed measure met at first with
serious opposition, partly on account of the
rejection of the apron, which many Templars
then held, as they do now, to be an essential
feature of Masonic Templarism, and a tangi-
ble record of the union at a specific period in
history of the two Orders ; but mainly, per-
haps, on account of the very heavy expense
and inconvenience which would devolve on
the old Commanderies, if they were required
at once to throw aside their old dress and pro-
vide a new one .
This opposition was only quelled by the
agreement on a compromise, by which the old
Commanderies were to be exempted from the
operation of the law . The regulations for the
new costume were then passed and the com-
promise immediately after adopted in the
words of the following resolution, which was
proposed by Sir Knight Doyle, who was one of
the committee
"Resolved, That the costume this day
adopted by the Grand Encampment be, and
the same is hereby, ordered to be worn by all
Commanderies chartered at this Communica-
tion, or that shall hereafter be established in
this jurisdiction, and by all Commanderies
heretofore existing, whenever they shall pro-
cure a new costume" ; and all State Grand
Commanderies were directed to enforce it in
all subordinates that may hereafter be char-
tered in their respective jurisdictions .
This was a compromise, nothing more or
less, and so understood at the time . The old
Commanderies were then in the majority, and
would not have consented to any change in=
volving so much expenditure, unless they had
been relieved from the burden themselves .
But the white tunic and cloak were never
popular with the knights, who had been re-
quu ed by the regulations of 1859 to wear them .
In consequence of this, at the session in 1862,
on motion of Sir Knight Bailey, "the subject-
matter of costume and the resolution relating
thereto were referred to a Select Committee of
Five ."
KNIGHTS 	413
This committee made a report, in which
they "proposed" a uniform . The record says
that "the report was agreed to, and the uni-
form was adopted ." But there are some points
in this report that are worthy of notice . In
the first place, not a word is said about the
compromise resolution adopted in 1859, al-
though it was referred to the committee .
That resolution was not repealed by any ac-
tion taken at the session of 1862, and still
must remain in force . It secured to the old
Commanderies the right to wear the old black
costume ; a right which could not be taken
from them, except by a repeal of the resolution
conferring the right . Nothing need be said
of the manifest injustice of repealing a resolu-
tion granted by the friends of a measure to its
opponents to remove their opposition . In
1859, the promise was made to the old Com-
manderies, that if they would agree to a cer-
tain uniform, to be prescribed for new Com-
manderies, their own old, traditional costume
should never be interfered with . 	Might
could, it is true, repeal this compromise ; but
Right would, for that purpose, have to be sac-
rificed . But the fact is, that the sense of right
in the Grand Encampment prevented such an
act of discourtesy, "not to put too fine a point
upon it," and no one can find in the proceedings
of the Grand Encampment any act which re-
peals the compromise resolution of 1859 ; and
this has been the opinion and the decision of
all the Grand Masters who have wielded the
baculus of office, except the present one .
But, in the second place, the report of 1862
shows clearly that the object of the committee
was to recommend a change in the uniform
that had been adopted for new Commanderies
in 1859, and which had become objectionable
on account of the tunic and cloak, and that
they did not intend to refer at all to the old
dress of the old Commanderies .
In the report the committee say : "The ob-
jections advanced to the costume adopted at
the last Triennial Conclave of this Grand
Body are want of adaptation to the require-
ments of our modern Templars, its liability to
injury and its expensiveness ." Now, who ad-
vanced these objections? Clearly, not the old
Commanderies . They were well satisfied
with the mode of dress which they had re-
ceived from their fathers ; and which was dear
to them for its solemn beauty and its tradi-
tional associations ; and the right to wear
which had been secured to them in 1859, with
the understanding that if they ever desired, of
their own accord, to lay it aside, they would
then adopt, in its stead, the regulation dress of
the Grand Encampment . But this was to be
for their own free action .
It was very evident that the old Comman-
deries had never complained that the tunics
and cloaks were from their material expensive
and from their color liable to injury . The old
Commanderies did not use these expensive
and easily soiled garments . It was the new
Commanderies that had made the objection,
and for them the legislation of 1862 was un-
dertaken .

414 	KNIGHTS
Dr . Mackey held, therefore, that the com-
promise resolution of 1859 still remains in
force ; that even if the Grand Encampment
had the right to repeal it, which he did not
admit it never has enacted any such re 	al ;
that the old Commanderies have the right to
wear the old black uniform, and that the legis-
lation of 1862 was intended only to affect the
new Commanderies which had been estab-
lished since the year 1859, when the first dress
lation was adopted .
t would scarcely be proper to close this
article on Masonic Templarism without some
reference to a philological controversy which
has recently arisen among the members of the
Order in the United States in reference to the
question whether the proper title in the plural
is "Knights Templars" or "Knights Tem-
plar ." This subject was first brought to the
attention of the Order by the introduction, in
the session of the Grand Encampment in 1871,
of the following resolutions by Sir Knight
Charles F . Stansbury, of Washington City .
"Resolved, That the proper title of the
Templar Order is `Knights Templars,' and
not `Knights Templar,' as now commonly
used under the sanction of the example of this
Grand Encampment .
"Resolved, 	That the use of the term
`Knights Templar' is an innovation, in viola-
tion of historic truth, literary usage, and the
philology and grammar of the English lan-
w
TThis~report was referred to a committee,
who reported "that this Grand Encampment
has no authority to determine questions of
'historic truth, literary usage and the philol-
ogy and grammar of the English language' " ;
and they asked to be discharged from the fur-
ther consideration of the subject . This re-
port is not very creditable to the committee,
and puts a very low estimate on the character
of the Grand Encampment . Certainly, it is
the duty of every body of men to inquire
whether the documents issued under their
name are in violation of these principles, and
if so, to correct the error . If a layman
habitually writes bad English, it shows that he
is illiterate ; and the committee should have
sought to preserve the Grand Encampment
from a similar charge . It should have in-
vestigated the subject, which to scholars is of
more importance than they seemed to con-
sider it ; they should have defended the
Grand Encampment in the use of the term,
or have recommended its abandonment .
Moreover the Grand Recorder reports that
on examination he finds that the title Knights
Tern piers was always used until 1856, when it
as changed to K nights Templar ; and the
committee should have inquired by whose au-
thority the change was made . But having
failed to grapple with the question of good
English, the Craft afterward took the subject
up, and a long discussion ensued in the dif-
ferent Masonic journals, resulting at last in
the expression, by the beat scholars of the
Order, of the opinion that Knights Templars
was correct, because it was in accordance with
KNIGHTS
the rules of good English, and in unexceptional
agreement with the usage of all literary men
who have written on the subject .
Bro . Stansbury, in an article on this
question which he 	ublished in Mackey's
National Freemason (., 191), has almost ex-
hausted the subject of authority and gram-
matical usage . He says : " That it is an in-
novation in violation of historic truth is
proved by reference to all historical authori-
ties . I have made diligent researches in the
Congressional Library, and have invoked the
aid of all my friends who were likely to be able
to assist me in such an investigation, and so
far from finding any conflict of authority on
the question, I have never been able to dis-
cover a single historical authority in favor of
any other title than `Knights Templars .'
"I refer to the following list of authorities :
Encyclopedia Britannica, Encyclopedia Amer-
icana, Chambers's Encyclopedia, London En-
cyclopedia, Encyclopedia Metropolitana, Penny
Cyclopedia Cottage Cyclopedia, Rees's Cyclo-
pedia,Wade'sBritishChronology, Blair's Chron-
ological Tables, Chambers's Miscellany (Cru-
sades), Chambers's Book of Days, Addison's
Knights Templars, Pantalogia, Boutelle's Her-
aldry, Hallam's Middle Ages, Lingard's His-
tory of England ; Glossographia Anglicana
Nova, 1707 ; Blackstone's Commentaries, vol .
i ., p . 406 ; Appleton's Cyclopedia of Biography
(Molai) ; Townsend's Calendar of Knights,
London 1828 ; Mosheim's Ecclesiastical His-
tory (ed . 1832), vol . ii ., p . 481 ; Dugdale's
Monasticon Anglicanum 	v ol . v i ., p . 813 ;
Hayden's Dictionary of bates ; Becton's Dic-
tionary of Universal Information ; Burne's
Sketch of the History of the Knights Templars ;
Laurie's History of Freemasonry ; Taffe's His-
tory of Knights of Malta ; London Freema-
sons' Magazine ; Sutherland's Achievements of
Knights of Malta ; Clark's History of Knight-
hood ; Ashmole's History of the Order of the
Garter ; Turner's England in the Middle Ages ;
Brande's 	Encyclopedia ; 	Tanner's 	Notitia
Monastica, 1744, pp . 307-310 .
"These will, perhaps, suffice to show what,
in the opinion of historical authorities, is the
proper title of the Order . In all of them, the
term 'Knights Templars' is the only one em-
ployed .
"They might, pe rhaps, be sufficient also on
the question of literary usage ; but on that
point I refer, in addition, to the following :
"London Quarterly Review, 1829, p . 608 .
Article : 'History of the Knights Templars .'
"Edinburgh Review, October, 1806, p . 196 .
Review of M . Renouard's work, Les Tem-
pliers .
"Eclectic Review 1842, p . 189 . Review of
the History of the Knights Templars, the
Temple Church, and the Temple, by Chas . G .
Addison . The running title is History of the
Knights Tern piers .
N
"Retrospective Review, 1821, vol . iv . p . 250 .
Review of the History of the Templars, by'
icholas Gaulterius, Amsterdam
k
1703 . The
running title is History of the N414 ; Tern-
plars .

KNIGHTS
" In Dr . Mackey's various Masonic works
both titles are occasionally used ; but that fact
is fully explained in the letter from that dis-
tinguished Masonic authority, with which I
shall conclude this article ."
On the philological and grammatical ques-
tion, it mainly turns on the inquiry whether
the word Templar is a noun or an adjective .
I think it may be safely asserted that every
dictionary of the English language in which
the word occurs, gives it as a noun, and as a
noun only . This is certainly the fact as to
Johnson's Dictionary, Webster's Dictionary,
Cole's Dictionary, Crabb's Dictionary (Tech-
nological), Imperial Dictionary, Craig's Dic-
tionary (Universal), and Worcester's Dic-
tionary .
If, then, the word " Templar" is a noun, we
have in the combination-"Knights Tem-
plar "-two nouns, referring to the same per-
son, one of which is in the plural, and the other
in the singular . The well-known rule of ap-
position, which prevails in almost, if not quite
all, languages, requires nouns under these cir-
cumstances to agree in number and case . This
is, in fact, a principle of general grammar,
founded in common sense . The combination
"Knights Templar " is therefore false in gram-
mar, if the word "Templar" is a noun . But
some may say that it is a noun used as an ad-
jective-a qualifying noun-a very common
usage in the English tongue . If this were so
the combination " Knights Templar" would
still be entirely out of harmony with the usage
of the language in regard to qualifying nouns,
the invariable practise being to place the ad-
jective noun before the noun which it quali-
fies . A few familiar examples will show this .
Take the following : mansion house, bird cage,
sea fog, dog days, mouse trap, devil fish, ink
stand, and beer cask . In every case the gen-
eric word follows the qualifying noun .
But if we even went to the length of admit-
ting the word "Templar" to be an adjective,
the combination "Knights Templar" would
still be contrary to the genius of the language,
which, except in rare cases, places the ad-
jective before the noun which it qualifies .
In poetry, and in some technical terms of
foreign origin, the opposite practise prevails .
The analogy of the usage, in reference to
the designations of other Orders of knight-
hood, is also against the use of " Knights
Templar ." We have Knights Commanders,
Knights 	Bachelors, 	Knights 	Bannerets,
Knights Baronets, and Knights Hospitalers .
Against all this, the only thing that can be
pleaded is the present usage of the Grand
Encampment of the United States, and of
some Commanderies which have followed
in its wake . The propriety of this usage is
the very question at issue ; and it would be
curious reasoning, indeed, that would cite the
fact of the usage in proof of its propriety . If
the Templars of to-day are the successors of
De Molay and Hugh de Payens, the preserva-
tion and restoration of the correct title of the
Order cannot be a matter of indifference to
them .
KNIGHTS 	415
In coming to the consideration of the ques-
tion, it appears that it must be examined in
two ways, grammatically and traditionally :
in other words, we must inquire, first, which of
these two expressions better accords with the
rules of English grammar ; and, secondly,
which of them has the support and authority
of the best English writers .
1 . If we examine the subject grammati-
cally, we shall find that its proper decision de-
pends simply on the question : Is " Templar"
a noun or an adjective? If it is an adjective,
then "Knights Templar" is correct, because
adjectives in English have no plural form . It
would, however, be an awkward and unusual
phraseology, because it is the almost invari-
able rule of the English language that the
adjective should precede and not follow the
substantive which it qualifies .
But if "Templar" is a substantive or noun,
then, clearly, " Knights Templar" is an un-
grammatical phrase, because 	"Templar"
would then be in apposition with " Knights,"
and should be in the same regimen ; that is to
say, two nouns coming together, and referring
to the same person or thing, being thus said to
be in apposition, must agree in number and
case . Thus we say King George or Duke Will-
iam, when King and George, and Duke and
William are in apposition and in the singular ;
but speaking of Thackeray's " Four Georges,"
and intending to designate who they were by
an explanatory noun in ap osition, we should
put both nouns in the plural, and say "the
four Georges, Kings of England ." So when we
wish to designate a simple Knight, who is not
only a Knight, but also belongs to that branch
of the Order which is known as Templars, we
should call him a "Knight Templar ' ; and if
there be two or more of these Templars, we
should call them "Knights Templars," just as
we say "Knight Hospitaler" and "Knights
Hospitalers . "
Now there is abundant evidence, in the beet
works on the subject, of the use of the word
" Templar" as a substantive, and none of its
use as an adjective .
It would be tedious to cite authorities, but
a reference to our best English writers will
show the constant employment of "Tem-
plar" as a substantive only . The analogy of
the Latin and French languages supports this
view, for "Templarius" is a noun in Latin,
as "Templier" is in French .
2 . As to traditional authority, the usage of
good writers, which is the "jus et norms lo-
quendi," is altogether in favor of "Knights
Templars" and not "Knights Templar ."
In addition to the very numerous authori-
ties collected by Bro . Stansbury from the
shelves of the Congressional Library, Dr .
Mackey collated all the authorities in his own
library .
All the English and American writers, Ma-
sonic and unmasonic,except some recentAmer-
ican ones, use the plural of Templar to desig-
nate more, than one Knight . In a few instances
Dr . Mackey found "Knight Templare," but
never "Knights Templar .' The very recent

416 	KNIGHTS
American use of this latter phrase is derived
from the authority of the present Constitu-
tion of the Grand Encampment of the United
States, and is therefore the very point in
controversy . The former Constitution used
the phrase `Knights Templars .' "On the
whole," Dr . Mackey concludes, "I am satis-
fied that the expression `Knights Templar' is
a violation both of the grammatical laws of
our language and of the usage of our best
writers on both sides of the Atlantic, and it
should therefore, I think, be abandoned ." *
Knights of St . John the Evangelist of
Asia in Europe . 	Founded at Schleswig and
Hamburg by Count of Ecker and Eckhoffen
in 1786 out of his Order of the "True Light,";
founded the previous year .
Knights of the True Light . 	A degree
founded by Count of Ecker and Eckhoffen, in
1785 .
Knocks, Three . 	When the Craft were to
be called to labor in old North Germany, "the
Master should give three knocks a Pallirer
two, consecutively ; and in case the Craft at
large were imperatively demanded, one blow
must be struck, morning, midday, or at even-
tide ." 	(Ordnung der
morning, 1462, Art .
28 .) Fort, in his Early History, etc ., says,
"three strokes by a Master convened all the
members of that degree ; two strokes by the
Pallirer called the Fellows, and by a single
blow each member was assembled in Lodge .
In the opening and closing of Teutonic tribu-
nals of justice, the judge carried a staff or
mace, as an emblem of jurisdiction, and order
was enjoined by a blow on the pedestal by the
Arbiter ."
An exposure of Masonry called The Three
Distinct Knocks, was issued in 1760 . Der-
mott (Ahiman Rezon, 1764, p . iii .) says Daniel
Tadpole was the editor, but this is probably
intended for a joke .
Knowledge . 	In the dualism of Masonry,
knowledge is symbolized by light, as ignorance
is by darkness . To be initiated, to receive
light is to acquire knowledge ; and the cry of
the neophyte for light is the natural aspiration
of the soul for knowledge .
Knowledge, Degrees of . 	See Degrees of
Knowledge .
Kojiki . 	(Book of Ancient Traditions .) The
oldest monument of Shintoism, in ancient
religion of Japan . It is written m pure Jap-
anese, and was composed by order of the
Mikado Gemmio, A .D . 712, and first printed
about 1625 . The adherents of Shmtoism
number about 14,000,000 .
Konx Ompax . There is hardly anything
that has been more puzzling to the learned
than the meaning and use of these two ap-
parently barbarous words . Bishop Warburton
says (Div . Leg ., I ., ii ., 4), but without giving
his authority, that in the celebration of the
Eleusinian mysteries, "the assembly was dis-
missed with these two barbarous words, Kom
OmnAg" ; and he thinks that this "shows the
* Knights Templar is the form now -adopted .
[E . E . C .]
KORAH
Mysteries not to have been originally Greek ."
Le Clerc (Bib . Univ ., vi ., 86) thinks that the
words seem to be only an incorrect pronunci-
ation of hots and omphets, which, he says, sig-
nify in the Phcenician language, "watch, and
abstain from evil ." Potter also (Gr . Ant ., 346)
says that the words were used in the Eleusin-
ian mysteries .
The words occur in none of the old Greek
lexicons, except that of Hesychius, where
they are thus defined :
"K6yt o orat . An acclamation used by those
who have finished anything . It is also the
sound of the judge's ballots and of the clepsy-
dra . 	The Athenians used the word blops ."
The words were always deemed inexplicable
until 1797, when Captain Wilford offered, in
the Asiatic Researches (vol . v ., p . 300), the fol-
lowing explanation . He there says that the
real words are Candsha Om Pacsha ; that they
are pure Sanskrit ; and are used to this day by
the Brahmans at the conclusion of their relig-
ious rites . Candsha signifies the object of our
most ardent wishes . 	Om is the famous mono-
syllable used both at the beginning and con-
clusion of a prayer or religious rite, like our
word Amen . 	Pacsha exactly answers to the
obsolete Latin word vix ; it signifies change,
course, stead, place, turn of work, duty, for-
tune, etc ., and is particularly used in pouring
water in honor of the gods .
Uwaroff (Ess . sur les Myst . d'Eleus .) calls
this "the most important of modern discov-
eries ." Creuzer, Schelling, and Monter also
approve of it .
Not so with Lobeck, who, in his Aglaopha-
mus (p . 775), denies not only that such words
were used in the Eleusinian mysteries, but the
very existence of the words themselves . He
says that in the title of the article in Hesy-
chius there is a misprint . Instead of K6yt
6μ,rdt, it should be K6yt 6μ . ,rtft, where 6μ is
the usual abbreviation of dμotms, like or sim-
ilar to ; so that the true reading would be Kofl
6μotms ,rat, or konx, like pax ; and he con-
firms this by referring to ,rat, to which Hesy-
chius gives the same meaning as he does to
rcoyt . 	This is too simple for Godfrey Higgins
who calls it (Anacal ., i ., 253) "a pretended
emendation ." It is nevertheless very ingeni-
ous, and is calculated to shake our belief that
these words were ever used in the Eleusinian
Rites, notwithstanding the learned authority
of Meursius, Warburton, Lempriere, Creuzer,
Uwaroff, and others .
Korah . 	The son of Izhar, uncle of Moses,
who was famed for beauty and wealth . It
is related that he refused to give aims, as
Moses had commanded, and brought a vil-
lainous charge against Moses, who complained
thereof to God ; the answer was that the earth
would obey whatever command he should
give ; and Moses said, "O earth, swallow them
up" i then Korah and his confederates were
sinking into the ground, when Korah pleaded
for mercy, which Moses refused . Then God
said, "Moses, thou hadst no mercy on Korah,
though he asked pardon of thee four times ;
but I would have had compassion on him if he

KORAN
had asked pardon of me but once" Al Bei-
ddwi .
Koran . 	The sacred book of the Moham-
medans, and believed by them to contain a
record of the revelations made by God to Mo-
hammed, and afterward dictated by him to an
amanuensis, since the prophet could neither
read nor write . In a Lodge consisting wholly
of Mohammedans, the Koran would be es-
teemed as the Book of the Law, and take the
place on the altar which is occupied in Chris-
tian Lodges by the Bible . It would thus be-
come the symbol to them of the Tracing-
Board of the Divine Architect . But, unlike
the Old and New Testaments, the Koran has
no connection with, and gives no support to,
any of the Masonic legends or symbols, ex-
cept in those parts which were plagiarized by
the prophet from the Jewish and Christian
Scriptures . Finch, however, in one of his
apocryphal works, produced a system of Mo-
hammedan Masonry, consisting of twelve de-
grees, founded on the teachings of the Koran,
and the Hadeeses or traditions of the prophet .
This system was a pure invention of Finch
Krause, Carl Christian Friedrich . 	One
of the most learned and laborious Masons of
Germany, and one who received the smallest
reward and the largest persecution for his
learning and his labors . The record of his life
reflects but little credit on his contemporaries
who were high in office, but it would seem low
in intellect . Findel (Hist . of F . M ., p . 628)
calls them "the antiquated German Masonic
world ." Dr . Krause was born at Eisenberg, a
small city of Altenberg, May 6, 1781 . He was
educated at Jena, where he enjoyed the in-
structions of Reinhold, Fichte, and Schelling .
While making theology his chief study, he de-
voted his attention at the same time to phi-
losophy and mathematics . In 1801, he ob-
tained his degree as Doctor of Philosophy, and
established himself at the University of Jena
as an extraordinary professor . There he re-
mained until 1805, marrying in the meantime
a lady of the name of Fuchs, with whom he
passed thirty years, leaving as the fruit of his
union eight sons and five daughters .
In 1805, Krause removed to Dresden, and
remained there until 1813 . In April, 1805, he
was initiated into Freemasonry in the Lodge
"Archimedes ." As soon as he had been initi-
ated, he commenced the study of the Institu-
tion by the reading of every Masonic work
that was accessible . It was at this time that
Krause adopted his peculiar system of philos-
ophy, which was founded on the theory that
the collective life of man-that is to say, of
humanity-was an organic and harmonious
unity ; and he conceived the scheme of a formal
union of the whole race of mankind into one
confederacy, embracing all partial unions of
church organizations, of State government,
and of private, social aggregations, into one
general confederation, which should labor,
irrespective of political, ecclesiastical, or
rsonal influences, for the universal and uni-
orm culture of mankind. Of such a confed-
eration he supposed that he could see the
KRAUSE 	417
germ in the Order of Freemasonry, which,
therefore, it was his object to elevate to that
position .
He first submitted these views in a series of
lectures delivered before the Lodge "Zu den
drei Schwertern" in Dresden, of which he had
been appointed the Orator . They were re-
ceived with much approbation, and were pub-
lished in 1811 under the title of the Spirituali-
zation of the Genuine Symbols of Freemasonry .
In these lectures, Krause has not confined
himself to the received rituals and accus-
tomed interpretations, but has adopted a
system of his own . This is the course that
was pursued by him in his greater work, the
Kunsturkunden ; and it was this which partly
gave so much offense to his Masonic, but not
his intellectual, superiors . In 1810, he pub-
lished, as the result of all his labors and re-
searches, his greatest work, the one on which
his reputation principally depends, and which,
notwithstanding its errors, is perhaps one of
the most learned works that ever issued from
the Masonic press . This is Die drei dltesten
Kunsturkunden der 	Freimaurerbriidersehaft,
or "The Three Oldest Professional Docu-
ments of the Brotherhood of Freemasons ."
The announcement that this work was
shortly to appear, produced the greatest ex-
citement in the Masonic circles of Germany .
The progressive members of the Craft looked
with anxious expectation for the new discov-
eries which must result from the investiga-
tions of an enlightened mind . The antiquated
and unprogressive Masons, who were op-
posed to all discussion of what they deemed
esoteric subjects, dreaded the effects of such a
work on the exclusiveness of the Order . Hence
attempts were made by these latter to suppress
the publication . So far were these efforts car-
ried, that one of the German Grand Lodges
offered the author a large amount of money
for his book, which proposal was of course re-
jected . After the publication, the Grand
Master of the three Grand Lodges sought
every means of excommunicating Krause and
Mossdorf, who had sustained him in his views .
After much angry discussion, the Dresden
Lodge, "Zu den drei Schwertern," was pre-
vailed upon to act as executioner of this ig-
norant spirit of fanaticism, and Krause and
Mossdorf, two of the greatest lights that ever
burst upon the horizon of Masonic literature,
were excommunicated . Nor did the perse-
cution here cease . Krause experienced its ef-
fects through all the remaining years of his
life . He was prevented on frequent occasions,
by the machinations of his Masonic enemies,
from advancement in his literary and profes-
sional pursuits, and failed through their influ-
ence to obtain professorships to which, from
his learning and services, he was justly entitled .
Findel (p . 629) has approvingly quoted Dr .
Schauberg as calling this " the darkest page
in the history of German Freemasonry .'
In 1814 Krause removed to Berlin . 	In
1821 he traveled through Germany, Italy,
and France, and in 1823 established himself at
Gottingen, where he gave lectures on philoso-

418 	KRAUSE
phy until 1830 . He then removed to Munich,
where he died September 27, 1832 . Besides
his contributions to Freemasonry, Krause
was an extensive writer on philosophical sub-
jects . 	His most important works are his
Lectures on the System of Philosophy, 1828, and
his Lectures on the Fundamental Truths of
Science, 1829 ; both published at Gottingen .
His great work, however to which he owes
his Masonic fame, is his kunsturkunden . He
commences this work by a declaration of his
design in writing it, which was twofold : first,
to enlighten the brotherhood in reference to
the three oldest documents in possession of
the Craft, by a philological and philosophical
examination of these records ; and secondly,
and with a higher purpose, to call their atten-
tion to a clear perception of the fundamental
idea of a general union of mankind, to be ac-
complished by a reorganization of their own
brotherhood . 	To the rituals of the present
day he objected as wanting in scientific for-
mula, and he thought that out of these old
records they might well construct a better
and more practical system .
But with all his learning, while his ideas of
reform, if properly carried out, would un-
doubtedly advance and elevate the Masonic
Institution, he committed grave errors in his
estimation of the documents that he has made
the groundwork of his system .
The three documents which he has pre-
sented as the oldest and most authentic rec-
ords of the Fraternity are : 	1 . The well-
known Leland Manuscript, a document of
whose authenticity there are the gravest
doubts ; 2 . The Entered Apprentice's Lecture,
a document published early in the eighteenth
century, to which, in his second edition, he
has added what he calls the New English Lec-
ture ; but it is now known that Krause's Lec-
ture is by no means the oldest catechism ex-
tant ; and, 3 . The York Constitution, which,
claiming the date of 926, has been recently
suspected to be not older than the early part
of the eighteenth century .
Notwithstanding these assumptions of au-
thenticity for documents not really authentic,
the vast learning of the author is worthy of all
admiration . 	His pages are filled with im-
portant facts and suggestive thoughts that
cannot fail to exert an influence on all Masonic
investigations . 	Krause cannot but be con-
sidered as one of the founders of a new Ma-
sonic literature, not for Germany alone, but
for the whole world of Masonic students .
KUN
Krause Manuscript . 	A title sometimes
ven to the so-called York Constitutions, a
rman translation of which was published by
Krause, in 1810, in his Kunsturkunden . 	(See
York Constitutions and Manuscripts, Apocry-
phal .)
Krishna or Christna . 	One of the Tri-
murti in the Hindu religious system . The
myth proceeds to state that Devanaguy, upon
the appearance of Vishnu, fell in a profound
ecstasy, and having been overshadowed (San-
skrit), the spirit was incarnated, and upon the
birth of a child, the Virgin and Son were con-
ducted to a sheepfold belonging to Nanda, on
the confines of the territory of Madura . The
newly born was named Krishna (in Sanskrit,
sacred) . The Rajah of Madura had been in-
formed in a dream that this son of Devanaguy
should dethrone and chastise him for all his
crimes ; he therefore sought the certain de-
struction of the child, and ordained the mas-
sacre, in all his states, of all the children of the
male sex born during the night of the birth of
Krishna . 	A troop of soldiers reached the
sheepfold of Nanda, the lord of a small village
on the banks of the Ganges, and celebrated
for his virtues . The servants were about to
arm in defense, when the child, who was at
his mother's breast, suddenly grew to the ap-
pearance and size of a child ten years of age, 	.
and running amused himself amidst the flock
of sheep . 	The exploits of this wonder child,
his preaching the new or reformed doctrine of
India, his disciples and loved companion Ard-
jouna, the parables, philosophic teaching, the
myth of his transfiguration, his ablutions in
the Ganges before his death, and tragic end,
together with the story of his revival after
three days, and ascension, are graphically told
by many authors, perhaps more brilliantly in
La Bible dens l'Inde, as translated into English
by Louis Jacolliot .
Kulma . The Hindustani Confession of
Faith .
Kum, Kivi . These two words, pronounced
koom and keevy, are found as ceremonial words
in one of the high degrees . They are from the
Hebrew, and are interpreted as meaning
arise! and kneel! 	They are not significant
words, having no symbolic allusion, and
seem to have been introduced merely to mark
the Jewish origin of the degree in which they
are employed . 	In the modern rituals they
are disused .
Kun . Arabic for Be, the creative fiat of
God .

L
L . (Heb ., ~ ; Samaritan, 2f .) 	The shape of
the twelfth English letter is borrowed from
that of the Oriental lomad, coinciding with the
Samaritan . 	The numerical value in Hebrew
is thirty . 	The Roman numeral L is fifty .
Hebrew name of Deity, as an equivalent, is
it, Limmud, or Doctus . This letter also sig-
nifies a stimulus, generally female .
Laanah . 	(Heb ., MN) 	Wormwood, a
word used in the Order of Ishmael .
Labady . 	A member of the G . Loge de
France, banished, in 1766, for alleged libel .
An exile to Blois, in October, 1767, for permit-
ting Masonic assemblies at his residence con-
trary to the orders of the government .
Labarum . 	The monogram of the name of
Christ, formed by the first two letters of that
name, XPIZTOZ, in Greek . It is the celebrated
sign which the legend says appeared
in the sky at noonday to the Emper-
or Constantine, and which was after-
ward placed by him upon his stand-
ard . Hence it is sometimes called
the Cross of Constantine . 	It was
adopted as a symbol by the early Christians,
and frequent instances of it are to be found in
the catacombs . According to Eusebius, the
Labarum was surrounded by the motto EN
TOTTtI NIKA, or "conquer by this," which
has been Latinized into in hoc sign winces, the
motto assumed by the Masonic Knights Tem-
plar . The derivation of the word Labarum is
uncertain . 	(See In hoc signo winces .)
Labor . 	It is one of the most beautiful
features of the Masonic Institution, that it
teaches not only the necessity, but the nobility
of labor . 	From the time of opening to that of
closing, a Lodge is said to be at labor . This is
but one of the numerous instances in which the
terms of Operative Masonry are symbolically
applied to Speculative ; for, as the Opera-
tive Masons were engaged in the building
of material edifices, so Free and Accepted
Masons are supposed to be employed in the
erection of a superstructure of virtue and mor-
ality upon the foundation of the Masonic
principles which they were taught at their
admission into the Order . When the Lodge is
engaged in reading petitions, hearing reports,
debating financial matters, etc ., it is said to be
occupied in business ; but when it is engaged
in the form and ceremony of initiation into
any of the degrees, it is said to be at work .
Initiation is Masonic labor . This phraseology
at once suggests the connection of our specu-
lative system with an operative art that pre-
ceded it, and upon which it has been founded .
"Labor," says Gadicke, "is an important
word in Masonry ; indeed, we might say the
most important . 	For this, and this alone,
does a man become a Freemason . 	Every
other object is secondary or incidental . Labor
is the accustomed design of every Lodge
meeting . 	But do such meetings always fur-
nish evidence of industry? The labor of an
L
LABORERS 	419
Operative Mason will be visible, and he will
receive his reward for it, even though the
building he has constructed may, in the next
hour, be overthrown by a tempest . He knows
that he has done his labor . And so must the
Freemason labor . 	His labor must be visible
to himself and to his brethren, or, at least, it
must conduce to his own internal satisfaction .
As we build neither a visible Solomonic Tem-
ple nor an Egyptian pyramid, our industry
must become visible in works that are imper-
ishable, so that when we vanish from the eyes
of mortals it may be said of us that our
labor was well done ." 	As Masons, we labor
in our Lodge to make ourselves a perfect
building, without blemish, working hopefully
for the consummation, when the house of our
earthly tabernacle shall be finished, when the
LOST worn of Divine truth shall at last be
discovered, and when we shall be found by
our own efforts at perfection to have done God
service .
Laborare est orare . 	To labor is to pray ;
or, in other words, labor is worship . This was a
saying of the Medieval monks, which is well
worth meditation . This doctrine, that labor
is worship, has been advanced and main-
tained, from time immemorial, as a leading
dogma of the Order of Freemasonry . There
is no other human institution under the sun
which has set forth this great principle in such
bold relief . We hear constantly of Free-
masonry as an institution that inculcates
morality that fosters the social feeling, that
teaches brotherly love ; and all this is well,
because it is true ; but we must never forget
that from its foundation-stone to its pinnacle,
all over its vast temple, is inscribed, in sym-
bols of living light, the great truth that labor is
worship .
Laboratory . 	The place where experi-
ments in chemistry, pharmacy, etc ., are per-
formed ; the workroom of the chemist . 	An
important apartment in the conferring of the
degrees of the Society of Rosicrucians .
Laborers, Statutes of . Toward the mid-
dle of the fourteenth century, a plague of ex-
cessive virulence, known in history as the
Black Death invaded Europe, and swept off
fully one-halt of the inhabitants . The death of
so many workmen had the effect of advancing
the price of all kinds of labor to double the
former rate . In England, the Parliament, in
1350, enacted a statute, which was soon fol-
lowed by others, the object of which was to
regulate the rate of wages and the price of the
necessaries of life . Against these enactments,
which were called the Statutes of Laborers,
the artisans of all kinds rebelled ; but the most
active opposition was found among the Ma-
sons, whose organization, being better regu-
lated, was more effective .* In 1360, statutes
were passed forbidding their "congregations,
chapters, regulations, and oaths," which were
* See Freemason .

420 	LABRUM
from time to time repeated, until the third
year of the reign of Henry VI ., A . D . 1425,
when the celebrated statute entitled "Ma-
sons shall not confederate themselves in chap-
ters and congregations," was enacted in the
following words :
" Whereas, by yearly congregations and
confederacies, made by the Masons in their
General Assemblies, the good course and
effect of the Statutes for Laborers be openly
violated and broken, in subversion of the law,
and to the great damage of all the Commons,
our said sovereign lord the king, willing in this
case to provide a remedy, by the advice and
assent aforesaid, and at the special request of
the Commons, hath ordained and established
that such chapters and congregations shall not
be hereafter holden ; and if any such be made,
they that cause such chapters and congre-
gations to be assembled and holden, if they
thereof be convict, shall be judged for felons,
and that the other Masons that come to such
chapters and congregations be punished by
imprisonment of their bodies and make fine
and ransom at the king's will . ;'
[Findel (Hist . of F . M ., p . 94), following
Preston says that this Statute was passed in
the Parliament of Bats ; but this is erroneous,
for the Act forbidding Masons to meet in
Chapters or Congregations was passed in 1425
by the Parliament at Westminster, while the
Parliament of Bats met at Leicester in the
following year . (See Bats, Parliament of .)-
E . L . H .]
All the Statutes of Laborers were repealed
in the fifth year of Elizabeth ; and Lord Coke
gave the opinion that this act of Henry VI .
became, in consequence, "of no force or ef-
fect" ; a decision which led Anderson, very
absurdly, to suppose that "this most learned
judge really belonged to the ancient Lodge,
and was a faithful brother " ( Constitutions,
1723, p . 57) ; as if it required a judge to be a
Mason to give a just judgment concerning the
interests of Masonry .
Labrum . 	From the Latin . A lip or edge,
as of a dish or font ; having reference to the
vase at the entrance of places of worship for
preliminary lustration .
Labyrinth . A place full of intricacies,
with winding passages, as the Egyptian,
Samian, and Cretan labyrinths . That of
the Egyptians was near Lake Moeris, which
contained twelve palaces under one roof and
was of polished stone, with many vaulted pas-
sages, and a court of 3000 chambers, half
under the earth and halt above them . Pliny
states it was 3,600 years old in his day . The
labyrinth is symbolical of the vicissitudes and
anxieties of life, and is thus metaphorically
used in a number of the degrees of various
Rites . Sage of the Labyrinth is the eight-
eenth grade, Rite of Memphis, in the Order of
1860 . Sage Sublime of Labyrinth, the fifty-
fifth grade of the same organization . (See
Catacombs .)
Lacepede, B . G . E . de la Ville . A French
savant and naturalist, born in 1756, died 1825 .
President of the Legislative .Assembly in 1791 .
LADDER
Master of the Lodge "De St . Napol6on" in
1805 . An account of his installation is re-
corded by Kloss .
Lacorne . 	The Count of Clermont, who
was Grand Master of France, having aban-
doned all care of the French Lodges, left them
to the direction of his Deputies . In 1761, he
appointed one Lacorne, a dancing-master, his
Deputy ; but the Grand Lodge, indignant at
the appointment, refused to sanction it or to
recognize Lacorne as a presiding officer . He
accordingly constituted another Grand Lodge,
and was supported by adherents of his own
character, who were designated by the more
respectable Masons as the "Lacorne faction ."
In 1762, the Count of Clermont, influenced by
the representations that were made to him,
revoked the commission of Lacorne t and ap-
pointed M . Chaillou de Joinville his Substi-
tute General . In consequence of this, the two
rival Grand Lodges became reconciled, and a
union was effected on the 24th of June, 1762 .
But the reconciliation did not prove alto-
gether satisfactory . In 1765, at the annual
election, neither Lacorne nor any of his asso-
ciates were chosen to office . They became dis-
gusted, and, retiring from the Grand Lodge,
issued a scandalous protest, for which they
were expelled ; and subsequently they organ-
ized a spurious Grand Lodge and chartered
several Lodges . But from this time Lacorne
ceased to have a place in regular Masonry, al-
though the dissensions first begun by him ulti-
mately gave rise to the Grand Orient as the
successor of the Grand Lodge .
Ladder . 	A symbol of progressive advance-
ment from a lower to a higher sphere, which is
common to Masonry and to many, if not all,
of the Ancient Mysteries . In each, generally,
as in Masonry, the number of steps was seven .
(See Jacob's Ladder .)
Ladder, Brahmanical . 	The symbolic
ladder used in the mysteries of Brahma . It
had seven steps, symbolic of the seven worlds
of the Indian universe . The lowest was the
Earth ; the second, the World of Reexistence ;
the third, Heaven ; the fourth, the Middle
World, or intermediate region between the
lower and the upper worlds ; the fifth, the
World of Births in which souls are born again ;
the sixth, the IViansion of the Blessed ; and the
seventh, or topmost round, the Sphere of
Truth the abode of Brahma, who was himself
a symbol of the sun .
Ladder, Jacob's . 	See Jacob's Ladder .
Ladder, Kabbalistic . 	The ladder of the
Kabbalists consisted of the ten Sephiroths or
emanations of Deity . The steps were in an
ascending series-the Kingdom, Foundation,
Splendor, Firmness, Beauty, Justice, Mercy,
Intelligence, Wisdom, and the Crown . This
ladder formed the exception to the usual num-
ber of seven steps or rounds .
Ladder, Mithrattle . The symbolic lad-
der used in the Persian mysteries of Mithras .
It had seven steps, symbolic of the seven plan-
ets and the seven metals . Thus, beginning at
the bottom, we have Saturn represented by
lead, Venus by tin, Jupiter by brass, Mercury

LADDER
by iron, Mars by a mixed metal, the Moon by
silver, and the Sun by gold ; the whole being a
ymbol of the sidereal progress of the sun
through the universe .
Ladder of Kadosh . 	This ladder, belong-
ing to the high degrees of Masonry, consists
of the seven following steps, beginning at the
bottom : Justice, Equity, Kindliness, Good
Faith, Labor, Patience, and Intelligence or
Wisdom . Its supports are love of God and love
of our neighbor, and their totality constitute
a symbolism of the devoir of Knighthood and
Masonry, the fulfilment of which is necessary
to make a Perfect Knight and Perfect Mason .
Ladder, Itosicruclan . Among the sym-
bols of the Rosicrucians is a ladder of seven
steps standing on a globe of the earth, with an
open Bible, square, and compasses resting on
the top . Between each of the steps is one of
the following letters, beginning from the bot-
tom : I . N . R . I . F . S . C ., being the initials
of Jesus, Nazarenus, Rex, Iudseorum, Fides,
Spes, Caritas . But a more recondite meaning
is sometimes given to the first four letters .
Ladder, Scandinavian . 	The symbolic
ladder used in the Gothic mysteries . Dr . Oli-
ver refers it to the Yggrasil, or sacred ash-tree .
But the symbolism is either very abstruse or
very doubtful . 	It retains, however, the idea
of an ascent from a lower to a higher sphere,
which was common to all the mystical ladder
systems . At its root lies the dragon of death ;
at its top are the eagle and hawk, the symbols
of life .
Ladder, Theological . 	The symbolic lad-
der of the Masonic mysteries . 	It refers to the
ladder seen by Jacob in his vision, and con-
sists, like all symbolical ladders, of seven
rounds, alluding to the four cardinal and the
three theological virtues . 	(See Jacob's Lad-
der .)
Lady . In the androgynous Lodges of
Adoption, where the male members are called
Knights, the female members are called La-
dies ; as, the Knights and Ladies of the Rose .
The French use the word Dame .
Lakak Deror Pessah . 	. ( Hebrew, 'IDD '111'1
i175 .) 	The initials of these three words are
found on the symbol of the Bridge in the Fif-
teenth Degree of the Scottish Rite, signifying
liberty of passage and liberty of thought .
(See Bridge, also Liber .)
Lalande . 	See De la Lande .
Lamaism . The name of the religion rev-
alent in Tibet and Mongolia . 	(Tibet, Lama,
pronounced lama, a chief or high priest .)
Buddhism, corrupted by Sivaism, an adora-
tion of saints . 	At the summit of its hier-
archy are two Lama popes having equal rank
and authority in spiritual and temporal af-
fairs .
Lamb . In ancient Craft Masonry the lamb
is the symbol of innocence ; thus in the ritual
of the First Degree : "In all ages the lamb
has been deemed an emblem of innocence ."
Hence it is required that a Mason's apron
should be made of lambskin . 	In the high
degrees, and in the degrees of chivalry, as in
Christian iconography, the lamb is a symbol
LANDMARKS 	421
of Jesus Christ . The introduction of this
Christian symbolism of the lamb comes from
the expression of St . John the Baptist, who ex-
claimed, on seeing Jesus, "Behold the Lamb of
God " ; which was undoubtedly derived from
the prophetic writers, who compare the Mes-
siah suffering on the cross to a lamb under the
knife of a butcher . In the vision of St . John,
in the Apocalypse, Christ is seen, under the
form of a lamb, wounded in the throat, and
opening the book with the seven seals . Hence,
in one of the degrees of the Scottish Rite, the
Seventeenth, or Knight of the East and West,
the lamb lying on the book with the seven
seals is a part of the jewel .
Lamb of God . 	See Lamb, Paschal .
V
Lamb, Paschal . The paschal lamb, some-
times called the Holy Lamb, was the lamb
offered up by the Jews at the paschal feast .
This has been transferred to Christian sym-
bolism, and naturally to chivalric Masonry ;
and hence we find it among the symbols of
modern Templarism . 	The paschal lamb, as
a Christian and Masonic symbol, called also
the Agnus Dei, or the Lamb of God, first sp-
eared in Christian art after the sixth century .
t is depicted as a lamb standing on the ground,
holding by the left forefoot a banner, on which
a cross is inscribed . 	This paschal lamb, or
Lamb of God, has been adopted as a symbol
by the Knights Templar, being borne in one
of the banners of the Order, and constituting,
with the square which it surmounts, the jewel
of the Generalissimo of a Commandery . 	The
lamb is a symbol of Christ ; the cross, of his
passion ; and the banner, of his victory over
death and hell . Mr . Barrington states (Archcs-
ologia, ix ., 134) that in a deed of the English
Knights Templar, granting lands in Cam-
bridgeshire, the seal is a Holy Land, and the
arms of the Master of the Temple at Lon-
don were argent, a cross gules, and on the
nombril point thereof a Holy Lamb, that is, a
paschal or Holy Lamb on the center of a red
cross in a white field .
Lamballe, The Princess of . 	Niece of
Marie Antoinette, murdered in 1792 at Paris .
The Grand Mistress of the so-called Mother
Lodge of "La Maponnerie d'Adoption ."
Vmbskin Apron . 	See Apron .
Lamma Sabactani . 	An expression used
in the Masonic French Rite of Adoption .
Lamp, Knight of the Inextinguishable .
A degree quoted in the nomenclature of Fus-
tier . 	(Thory, Acta Lat ., i ., 320 .)
Lance . 	A weapon for thrusting at an
enemy, usually adorned with a small flag
made of tough ash, weighted at one end anc
pointed at the other .
Landmarks . 	In ancient times, it was the
custom to mark the boundaries of lands by
means of stone pillars, the removal of which
by malicious persons, would be the occasion of
much confusion, men having no other guide
than these pillars by which to distinguish the
limits of their property . To remove them,
therefore, was considered a heinous crime .
"Thou shalt not," says the Jewish law, "re-
move thy neighbor's landmark, which they of

422 	LANDMARKS
old time have set in thine inheritance ." Hence
those peculiar marks of distinction by which
we are separated from the profane world, and
by which we are enabled to designate our in-
heritance as the "sons of light," are called the
landmarks of the Order . 	The universal Lan-
guage and the universal laws of Masonry are
landmarks, but not so are the local ceremonies,
laws, and uwnges, which vary in different
countries . 	To attempt to alter or remove
these sacred landmarks, by which we examine
and prove a brother's claims to share in our
privileges, is one of the most heinous offenses
that a Mason can commit .
In the decision of the question what are and
what are not the landmarks of Masonry, there
has been much diversity of opinion among
writers . 	Dr . Oliver says (Diet . Symb . Mas .)
that "some restrict them to the O . B . signs,
tokens, and words . Others include the cere-
monies of initiation, passing, and raising ;
and the form, dimensions, and support ; the
ground, situation, and covering ; the orna-
ments, furniture, and jewels of a Lodge, or
their characteristic symbols . Some think that
the Order has no landmarks beyond its pecu-
liar secrets ." But all of these are loose and un-
satisfactory definitions, excluding things that
are essential, and admitting others that are
unessential .
Perhaps the safest method is to restrict
them to those ancient, and therefore univer-
sal, customs of the Order, which either grad-
ually grew into operation as rules of action, or,
if at once enacted by any competent authority,
were enacted at a period so remote, that no
account of their origin is to be found in the
records of history . 	Both the enactors and the
time of the enactment have passed away from
the record, and the landmarks are therefore
"of higher antiquity than memory or history
can reach ."
The first requisite, therefore, of a custom or
rule of action to constitute it a landmark, is,
that it must have existed from "time whereof
the memory of man runneth not to the con-
trary ." Its antiquity is its essential element .
Were it possible for all the Masonic authori-
ties at the present day to unite in a universal
congress, and with the most perfect unanimity
to adopt any new regulation, although such
regulation would, so long as it remained un-
repealed, be obligatory on the whole Craft, yet
it would not be a landmark . 	It would have
the character of universality, it is true, but it
would be wanting in that of antiquity .
Another peculiarity of these landmarks
of Masonry is, that they are unrepealable . As
the congress to which I have just alluded
would not have the power to enact a land-
mark, so neither would it have the prerogative
of abolishing one . 	The landmarks of the
Order, like the laws of the Medes and the Per-
sians, can suffer no change . 	What they were
centuries ago, they still remain, and must so
continue in force until Masonry itself shall
cease to exist .
Until the year 1858, no attempt had been
made by any Masonic writer to distinctly
LANDMARKS
enumerate the landmarks of Freemasonry,
and to give to them a comprehensible form .
In October of that year, the author of this
work published in the American Quarterly
Review of Freemasonry (vol . ii ., p . 230) an
article on "The Foundations of Masonic
Law," which contained a distinct enumeration
of the landmarks, which was the first time that
such a list had been presented to the Fra-
ternity . 	This enumeration was subsequently
incorporated by the author in his Text Book
of Masonic Jurisprudence . 	It has since been
very generally adopted by the Fraternity and
republished by many writers on Masonic law ;
sometimes without any acknowledgment of
the source whence they derived their infor-
mation . 	According to this recapitulation,
the result of much labor and research, the
landmarks are twenty-five in number, and are
as follows :
1 . The modes of recognition are, of all the
landmarks, the most legitimate and unques-
tioned . 	They admit of no variation ; and if
ever they have suffered alteration or addition,
the evil of such a violation of the ancient law
has always made itself subsequently manifest .
2 . The division of symbolic Masonry into
three degrees is a landmark that has been bet-
ter preserved than almost any other ; although
even here the mischievous spirit of innova-
tion has left its traces, and, by the disruption
of its concluding portion from the Third De-
gree, a want of uniformity has been created in
respect to the final teaching of the Master's
Order ; and the Royal Arch of England, Scot-
land, Ireland, and America, and the "high
degrees " of France and Germany, are all made
to differ in the mode in which they lead the
neophyte to the great consummation of all
symbolic Masonry . 	In 1813, the Grand
Lodge of England vindicated the ancient land-
mark, by solemnly enacting that ancient
Craft Masonry consisted of the three degrees
of Entered Apprentice, 	Fellow-Craft, 	and
Master Mason, including the Holy Royal
Arch . 	But the disruption has never been
healed, and the landmark, although acknowl-
edged in its integrity by all, still continues to
be violated .
3 . The legend of the Third Degree is an
important landmark, the integrity of which
has been well preserved . There is no Rite of
Masonry, practised in any countryor language
in which the essential elements of this legend
are not taught . 	The lectures may vary, and
indeed are constantly changing, but the legend
has ever remained substantially the same .
And it is necessary that it should be so, for the
legend of the Temple Builder constitutes the
very essence and identity of Masonry . Any
Rite which should exclude it, or materially
alter it, would at once, by that exclusion or
alteration, cease to be a Masonic Rite .
4 . The government of the Fraternity by a
presiding officer called a Grand Master, who is
elected from the body of the Craft, is a fourth
landmark of the Order . Many persons sup-
pose that the election of the Grand Master is
held in consequence of a law or regulation of

LANDMARKS
the Grand Lodge . Such, however, is not the
case . The office is indebted for its existence
to a landmark of the Order . Grand Masters,
or persons performing the functions under a
different but equivalent title, are to be found
in the records of the Institution long before
Grand Lodges were established ; and if the
present system of legislative government by
Grand Lodges were to be abolished, a Grand
Master would still be necessary .
5 . The prerogative of the Grand Master to
preside over every assembly of the Craft,
wheresoever and whensoever held, is a fifth
landmark . It is in consequence of this law,
derived from ancient usage, and not from any
special enactment, that the Grand Master as-
sumes the chair, or as it is called in England,
"the throne," at every communication of the
Grand Lodge ; and that he is also entitled to
preside at the communication of every subor-
dinate Lodge, where he may happen to be
present .
6 . The prerogative of the Grand Master to
grant dispensations for conferring degrees at
irregular times, is another and a very impor-
tant landmark . The statutory law of Masonry
requires a month, or other determinate period,
to elapse between the presentation of a pe-
tition and the election of a candidate . But the
Grand Master has the power to set aside or
dispense with this probation, and to allow a
candidate to be initiated at once . This pre-
rogative he possessed before the enactment of
the law requiring a probation, and as no stat-
ute can impair his prerogative, he still retains
the power .
7 . The prerogative of the Grand Master to
give dispensations for opening and holding
Lodges is another landmark . He may grant,
in virtue of this, to a sufficient number of
Masons, the privilege of meeting together and
conferring degrees . The Lodges thus estab-
lished are called "Lodges under dispensation ."
(See Lodges .)
8 . The prerogative of the Grand Master to
make Masons at sight is a landmark which
is closely connected with the preceding one .
There has been much misapprehension in re-
lation to this landmark, which misapprehen-
sion has sometimes led to a denial of its exist-
ence in jurisdictions where the Grand Master
was, perhaps, at the very time substantially
exercising the prerogative, without the slight-
est remark or opposition . (See Sight, Making
Masons at .)
9 . The necessity for Masons to congregate
in Lodges is another landmark . It is not to be
understood by this that any ancient landmark
has directed that permanent organization of
subordinate Lodges which constitutes one of
the features of the Masonic system as it now
prevails . But the landmarks of the Order al-
ways prescribed that Masons should, from
time to time, congregate together for the pur-
pose of either Operative or Speculative labor,
and that these congregations should be called
Lodges . Formerly, these were extemporary
meetings called together for special purposes,
and then dissolved, the brethren departing to
LANDMAR KS 	423
meet again at other times and other places,
according to the necessity of circumstances .
But Warrants of Constitution, by-laws, per-
manent officers, and annual arrears are mod-
ern innovations wholly outside the landmarks,
and dependent entirely on the special enact-
ments of a comparatively recent period .
10 . The government of the Craft, when so
congregated in a Lodge, by a Master and two
Wardens, is also a landmark . A congrega-
tion of Masons meeting together under any
other government, as that, for instance, of a
president and vice-president, or a chairman
and subchairman, would not be recognized as
a Lodge . The presence of a Master and two
Wardens is as essential to the valid organiza-
tion of a Lodge as a Warrant of constitution
is at the present day . The names, of course,
vary in different languages ; but the officers,
their number, prerogatives, and duties are
everywhere identical .
11 . The necessity that every Lodge, when
congregated should be duly tiled, is an im-
portant landmark of the Institution which is
never neglected . The necessity of this law
arises from the esoteric character of Masonry .
The duty of guarding the door, and keeping
off cowans and eavesdroppers, is an ancient
one, which therefore constitutes a landmark .
12 . The right of every Mason to be repre-
sented in all general meetings of the Craft, and
to instruct his representatives, is a twelfth
landmark . Formerly, these general meetings,
which were usually held once a year, were
called "General Assemblies," and all the Fra-
ternity, even to the youngest Entered Appren-
tice, were permitted to be present . Now
they are called "Grand Lodges," and only the
Masters and Wardens of the subordinate
Lodges are summoned . But this is simply as
the representatives of their members . Orig-
inally, each Mason represented himself ; now
he is represented by his officers . (See Repre-
sentatives of Lodges .)
13 . The right of every Mason to appeal
from the decision of his brethren, in Lodge
convened, to the Grand Lodge or General
Assembly of Masons, is a landmark highly es-
sential to the preservation of justice, and the
prevention of oppression . A few modern
Grand Lodges, in adopting a regulation that
the decision of subordinate Lodges, in cases of
expulsion, cannot be wholly set aside upon an
appeal, have violated this unquestioned land-
mark, as well as the principles of just govern-
ment .
14 . The right of every Mason to visit and
sit in every regular Lodge is an unquestion-
able landmark of the Order . This is called
"the right of visitation ." This light of visi-
tation has always been recognize as an in-
herent right which inures to every Mason as be
travels through the world . And this is be-
cause Lodges are justly considered as only
divisions for convenience of the universal
Masonic family . This right may, of course,
be impaired or forfeited on special occasions
by various circumstances ; but when admis-
sion is refused to a Mason in good standing,

424 	LANDMARKS
who knocks at the door of a Lodge as a visitor,
it is to be expected that some good and suf-
ficient reason shall be furnished for this viola-
tion of what is, in general, a Masonic right,
founded on the landmarks of the Order .
15 . It is a landmark of the Order, that no
visitor unknown to the brethren present, or to
some one of them as a Mason, can enter a
Lodge without first passing an examination
according to ancient usage . Of course, if the
visitor is known to any brother present to be a
Mason in good standing, and if that brother
will vouch for his qualifications, the examina-
tion may be dispensed with, as the landmark
refers only to the cases of strangers, who are
not to be recognized unless after strict trial,
due examination, or lawful information .
16 . No Lodge can interfere in the business
of another Lodge, nor give degrees to brethren
who are members of other Lodges . This is un-
doubtedly an ancient landmark, founded on
the great principles of courtesy and fraternal
kindness, which are at the very foundation of
our Institution . It has been repeatedly rec-
o 	'zed by subsequent statutory enactments
o all Grand Lodges .
17 . It is a landmark that every Freemason
is amenable to the laws and regulations of the
Masonic jurisdiction in which he resides, and
this although he may not be a member of any
Lodge . Non-affiliation, which is, in fact, in
itself a Masonic offense, does not exempt a
Mason from Masonic jurisdiction .
18 . Certain qualifications of candidates for
initiation are derived from a landmark of the
Order . These qualifications are that he shall
be a man-unmutilated, free born, and of
mature age . That is to say, a woman, a crip-
ple, or a slave, or one born in slavery, is dis-
qualified for initiation into the Rites of Ma-
sonry . 	Statutes, it is true, have from time to
time been enacted, enforcing or explaining
these principles ; but the qualifications really
arise from the very nature of the Masonic In-
stitution, and from its symbolic teachings, and
have always existed as landmarks .
19 . A belief in the existence of God as the
Grand Architect of the Universe, is one of the
most important landmarks of the Order . It
has been always admitted that a denial of the
existence of a Supreme and Superintending
Power is an absolute disqualification for in-
itiation . The annals of the Order never yet
have furnished or could furnish an instance in
which an avowed Atheist was ever made a
Mason . The very initiatory ceremonies of
the First Degree forbid and prevent the pos-
sibility of such an occurrence .
20 . Subsidiary to this belief in God, as a
landmark of the Order, is the belief in a res-
urrection to a future life . This landmark is
not so positively impressed on the candidate by
exact words as the preceding ; but the doctrine
is taught by very plain implication, and runs
through the whole symbolism of the Order .
To believe in Masonry, and not to believe in a
resurrection, would be an absurd anomaly,
which could only be excused by the reflection,
that be, who thus confounded his belief and his
LANDMARKS
ekepticism was so ignorant of the meaning of
both theories as to have no rational founda-
tion for his knowledge of either .
21 . It is a landmark that a "Book of the
Law" shall constitute an indispensable part of
the furniture of every Lodge . I say, advisedly,
Book of the Law, because it is not absolutely
required that everywhere the Old and New
Testaments shall be used . The "Book of the
Law " is that volume which, by the religion of
the country, is believed to contain the revealed
will of the Grand Architect of the Universe .
Hence, in all Lodges in Christian countries, the
"Book of the Law " is composed of the Old and
New Testaments ; in a country where Juda-
ism was the prevailing faith, the Old Testa-
ment alone would be sufficient ; and in
Mohammedan countries, and among Moham-
medan Masons, the Koran might be substi-
tuted . Masonry does not attempt to interfere
with the peculiar religious faith of its dis-
ciples, except so far as relates to the belief in
the existence of God, and what necessarily re-
sults from that belief . The "Book of the
Law" is to the Speculative Mason his spirit-
ual trestle-board ; without this he cannot
labor ; whatever he believes to be the revealed
will of the Grand Architect constitutes for
him this spiritual trestle-board, and must ever
be before him in his hours of speculative labor,
to be the rule and guide of his conduct . The
landmark, therefore, requires that a "Book of
the Law," a religious code of some kind, pur-
porting to be an exemplar of the revealed will
of God, shall form an essential part of the fur-
niture of every Lodge .
22 . The equality of all Masons is another
landmark of the Order . This equality has no
reference to any subversion of those grada-
tions of rank which have been instituted by
the usages of society . The monarch, the
nobleman, or the gentleman is entitled to all
the influence, and receives all the respect,
which rightly belong to his position . But the
doctrine of Masonic equality implies that, as
children of one great Father, we meet in the
Lodge upon the level-that on that level we
are all traveling to one predestined goal-that
in the Lodge genuine merit shall receive more
respect than boundless wealth, and that virtue
and knowledge alone should be the basis of all
Masonic honors, and be rewarded with pre-
ferment . When the labors of the Lodge are
over, and the brethren have retired from their
peaceful retreat, to mingle once more with the
world, each will then again resume that social
position, and exercise the privileges of that
rank, to which the customs of society entitle
him .
23 . The secrecy of the Institution is another
and most important landmark . The form of
secrecy is a form inherent in it, existing with it
from its very foundation, and secured to it
by its ancient landmarks . If divested of its
secret character, it would lose its identity, and
would cease to be Freemasonry . Whatever ob-
jections may, therefore, be made to the In-
stitution on account of its secrecy, and how-
ever much some unskilful brethren have been

LANGES
unwilling in times of trial, for the sake of ex-
pediency, to divest it of its secret character, it
will be ever impossible to do so, even were the
landmark not standing before us as an insur-
mountable obstacle ; because such change of
its character would be social suicide, and the
death of the Order would follow its legalized
exposure . 	Freemasonry, as a secret associa-
tion, has lived unchanged for centuries ; as an
open society, it would not last for as many
years .
24 . The foundation of a speculative science
upon an operative art, and the symbolic
use and explanation of the terms of that
art, for the purposes of religious or moral
teaching, constitute another landmark of
the Order . The Temple of Solomon was the
symbolic cradle of the Institution, and, there-
fore, the reference to the Operative Masonry
which constructed that magnificent edifice,
to the materials 	and implements 	which
were employed in its construction, and to
the artists who were engaged in the building,
are all component and essential parts of the
body of Freemasonry, which could not be
subtracted from it without an entire destruc-
tion of the whole identity of the Order .
Hence, all the comparatively modern rites
of Masonry, however they may differ in
other respects, religiously preserve this Tem-
ple history and these operative elements, as
the substratum of all their modifications of
the Masonic system .
25 . The last and crowning landmark of all
is, that these landmarks can never be changed .
Nothing can be subtracted from them-noth-
ing can be added to them-not the slightest
modification can be made in them . As they
were received from our predecessors, we are
bound by the most solemn obligations of duty
to transmit them to our successors .
Langes, Savalette de . 	The Master of
"Les Amis Reunis," who aided in founding
the system of Philalethes in 1775 .
Language, Universal . 	The invention of
a universal language, which men of all nations
could understand and through which they
could communicate their thoughts, has always
been one of the Utopian dreams of certain
philologists . 	In the seventeenth century,
Dalgarno had written his Ars Signorum to
prove the possibility of a universal character
and a philosophical language . About the same
time Bishop Wilkins published his Essay
towards a Real Character and a Philosophical
Language ; and even the mathematical Leib-
nitz entertained the project of a universal lan-
guage for all the world . It is not, therefore
surprising, that when the so-called Leland
Manuscript stated that the Masons concealed
a "universelle longage," Mr . Locke, or who-
ever was the commentator on that document,
should have been attracted by the statement .
"A universal language," he says, "has been
much desired by the learned of many ages . It
is a thing rather to be wished than hoped for .
But it seems the Masons pretend to have such
LANSDOWNE 	4~5
a thing among them . 	If it be true, I guess it
must be something like the language of the
Pantomimes among the ancient Romans, who
are said to be able, by signs only, to express
and deliver any oration intelligibly to men of
all nations and languages ."
The "guess" of the commentator was near
the truth . 	A universal language founded on
words is utterly impracticable . Even if once
inaugurated by common consent, a thing itself
impossible, the lapse of but a few years, and
the continual innovation of new 	phrases,
would soon destroy its universality . But there
are signs and symbols which, by tacit consent,
have always been recognized as the exponents
of certain ideas, and these are everywhere
understood . 	It is well known that such a sys-
tem exists over the vast territory occupied by
the North American savages, and that the
Indians of two tribes, which totally differ in
language, meeting on the prairie or in the for-
est, are enabled, by conventual signs of uni-
versal agreement, to hold long and intelligible
intercourse . 	On such a basis the "universal
language" of Freemasonry is founded . 	It is
not universal to the world, but it is to the
Craft ; and a Mason of one country and lan-
guage meeting a Mason of another can make
himself understood for all practical purposes
of the Craft, simply because the system of
signs and symbols has been so perfected that
in every language they convey the same mean-
ing and make the same impression . 	This, and
this only, is the extent to which the universal
language of Masonry reaches . 	It would be an
error to suppose that it meets the expecta-
tions of Dalgarno or Wilkins, or any other
dreamer, and .that it is so perfect as to super-
sede the necessity of any other method of in-
tercommunication .
Lansdowne MS . This version of the Old
Charges is of very early date, about the middle
or latter half of the sixteenth century, as these
Free Masons Orders and Constitutions are be-
lieved to have been part of the collection made
by Lord Burghley (Sec . of State, temp . Ed-
ward VI .), who died A .D . 1598 .
Bro . Gould, in his History (vol . i ., p . 61),
says the "MS . is contained on the inner side
of three sheets and a half of stout paper,
eleven by fifteen inches, making in all seven
folios, many of the principal words being in
large letters of an ornamental character . 	Mr .
Sims (MS . Department of the British Mu-
seum) does not consider these `Orders' ever
formed a roll, though there are indications of
the sheets having been stitched together at
the top, and paper or vellum was used for
additional protection . 	It has evidently `seen
service .' 	It was published in Freemasons'
Mag ., February 24, 1858, and Hughan's Old
Charges (p . 31), and since in facsimile by the
Quatuor Coronati Lodge . The catalogue of the
Lansdowne MSS .-which consisted of twelve
hundred and forty-five volumes, bought by
Parliament, in 1807, for £4925-has the fol-
owing Rote on the contents of this document :

426 	LANTURELUS
`No . 48 . A very foolish legendary account of
the original of the Order of Freemasonry '-
in the handwriting, it is said, of Sir Henry
Ellis "
Lanturelus, Ordre des . 	Instituted, ac-
cording to Clavel, in 1771, by the Marquis de
Croismare . Its purposes or objects are not
now understood .
Lapicida . 	A word sometimes used in
Masonic documents to denote a Freemason .
It is derived from lapis, a stone, and credo, to
cut, and is employed by Varro and Livy to
signify "a stone-cutter ." But in the low Latin
of the Medieval age it took another meaning ;
and Du Cange defines it in his Glossarium as
"tEdeficiorum structor ; Gall . Macon," i . e .,
"A builder of edifices ; in French, a Mason" ;
and he quotes two authorities of 1304 and
1392, where lapicidx evidently means builders .
In the Vocabularium of Ugutio, Anno 1592,
Laoicedius is defined "a cutter of stones ."
The Latin word now more commonly used by
Masonic writers for Freemason isLatomus ; but
Lapicida is purer Latin . (See Latomus .)
Larmenius, Johannes Marcus . Accord-
ing to the tradition of the Order of the
Temple-the credibility of which is, however,
denied by most Masonic scholars-John Mark
Larmenius was in 1314 appointed by James de
Molay his successor as Grand Master of the
Templars, which power was transmitted by
La ; •m enius to his successors, in a document
known as the "Charter of Transmission ."
(Se-- Temple, Order of the .)
La Rochefoucault, Bayers, Le Marquis
de . 	G . Master of the "Rite Ecossais Phil-
osophique" in 1776 . A Mason of consider-
able note .
Larudan, Abbe . 	The author of a work
entitled Les FrancMagons ecrases . Suite du
here intitule l'Ordre des Franc-Masons trahi,
traduit du Latin . 	The first edition was pub-
lished at Amsterdam in 1746 . In calling it
the sequel of L'Ordre des FrancMagons trahi,
by the Abbe Perau, Larudan has sought to
attribute the authorship of his own libelous
work to Perau, but without success, as the in-
ternal evidence of style and of tone sufficiently
distinguishes the two works . Moss says
(Bibliog ., No . 1874) that this work is the
armory from which all subsequent enemies of
Masonry have derived their weapons . Laru-
dan was the first to broach the theory that
Oliver Cromwell was the inventor of Free-
Masonry .
Lasalle, Troubat de . 	One of the founders
of the Mother Lodge of the "Rite Ecossais
Philosophique ."
Lateran Councils . 	They were five in
number, regardpd as ecumenical, and were
held in the Church of St . John Lateran in
Rome, in 1123, 1139, 1179, 1215, and 1512 .
Latin Lodge . 	In the year 1785, the Grand
Lodge of Scotland granted a Warrant for
the establishment of Roman Eagle Lodge at
Edinburgh ; the whole of whose work was con-
ducted in the Latin language . Of this Lodge,
the celebrated and learned Dr . John Brown
was the founder and Master . He had himself
LATRES
translated the ritual into the classical language
of Rome, and the minutes were written in
Latin . 	(Lyon's Hist . of the Lodge of Edin-
burgh, p . 257 .) The Lodge is No . 160 on the
Scotch Roll, but ceased to work in Latin in
1794 .
Latomia . 	This word has sometimes been
used in modern Masonic documents as the
Latin translation of the word Lodge, with what
correctness we will see . The Greek Xaroμeiov,
latomeion (or xaroμta), from the roots laas, a
stone, and temno, to cut, meant a place where
stones were cut, a quarry . From this the
Romans got their word latomia, more usually
spelled lautumice, which also, in pure Latinity,
meant a stone-quarry . But as slaves were
confined and made to work in the quarries by
way of punishment, the name was given to any
prison excavated out of the living rock and
below the surface of the earth, and was es-
pecially so applied to the prison excavated by
Servius Tullius under the Capitoline hill at
Rome, and to the state prison at Syracuse .
Both xaro a and lautumice are seldom used
by ancient writers in their primary sense of
"a stone-quarry," but both are used in the
secondary sense of "a prison," and therefore
"Latomia" cannot be considered a good
equivalent for "Lodge ."
Latomus . 	By Masonic writers used as a
translation of Freemason into Latin ; thus,
Thory entitles his valuable work, Acta Lato-
morum, i . e ., "Transactions of the Freema-
sons ." This word was not used in classical
Latinity . In the low Latin of the Middle
Ages it was used as equivalent to lapicida .
Du Cange defines it, in the form of lathomus,
as a cutter of stones, "Caesor lapidum ." He
gives an example from one of the ecclesias-
tical Constitutions, where we find the expres-
sion "carpentarii ac Latomi," which may
mean Carpenters and Masons or Carpenters
and Stone-Cutters . 	Du Cange also gives La-
tomus as one of the definitions of Magonetus,
which he derives from the French Mason .
But Maconetus and Latomus could not have
had precisely the same meaning, for in one of
the examples cited by Du Cange, we have
"Joanne de Bareno, Magoneto, Latonio de
Gratianopolis," i . e ., "John de Bareno, Mason
and Stone-Cutter (?) of Grenoble ." Latomus
is here evidently an addition to Maconetus,
showing two different kinds of occupation .
We have abundant evidence in Medieval doc-
uments that a Maconetus was a builder, and
a Latomus was most probably an inferior
order, what the Masonic Constitutions call a
"rough Mason ." The propriety of applying
it to a Freemason seems doubtful . The
word is sometimes found as Lathomus and
Latonius .
Latour d'Auvergne, Le Prince de . Pres-
ident of the Mother Lodge of the "Rite Ecos-
sais Philosophique" in 1805, and member of
the Grand Orient of France in 1814 .
Latres . 	This word has given much un-
necessary trouble to the commentators on the
old Records of Masonry . In the legend of the
Craft contained in all the old Constitutions,

LAUREL
we are informed that the children of Lamech
" knew that God would take vengeance for
sinne, either by fire or water, wherefore they
did write these sciences that they had found in
twoe pillars of stone, that they might be found
after that God had taken vengeance ; the one
was of marble and would not burne, the other
was Latres and would not drowne in water ."
(Harleian MS . No . 1942 .) It is the Latin
word later, a brick . The legend is derived
from Josephus (Antiq ., I ., ii .), where the same
story is told . Whiston properly translates the
passage, "they made two pillars ; the one of
brick, the other of stone ." The original Greek
is irxlv8os, which has the same meaning .
The word is variously corrupted in the manu-
scripts . Thus the Harleian MS . has latres,
which comes nearest to the correct Latin
plural lateres ; the Cooke MS . has lacerus ; the
Dowland, laterns ; the Lansdowne, latherne ;
and the Sloane MS ., No . 3848, getting fur-
thest from the truth, has letera . It is strange
that Halliwell (Early Hist . off . M . in England,
2d ed ., p . 8) should have been ignorant of the
true meaning, and that Hy . Phillips (Free-
masons' Quarterly Review, 1836, p . 289) in
commenting on the Harleian MS ., should have
supposed that it alluded "to some floating
substance ." The Latin word later and the
passage in Josephus ought readily to have led
to an explication .
Laurel Crown . A decoration used in
some of the higher degrees of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite . The laurel is an em-
blem of victory ; and the corona triumphalis of
the Romans, which was given to generals who
had gained a triumph by their conquests, was
made of laurel leaves . The laurel crown in
Masonry is given to him who has made a con-
quest over his passions .
Laurens, J . L . A French Masonic writer,
and the author of anEssai historique et critique
sur la Franche-Magonnerie, published at Paris
in 1805 . In this work he gives a critical ex-
amination of the principal works that have
treated of the Institution . It contains also a
refutation of the imputations of anti-Masonic
writers . In 1808 he edited an edition of the
Vocabulaire desFranc-Masons, the first edition
of which had been issued in 1805 . In 1825
was published a Histoire des Initiations de
l'ancienne Egypt with an essay by Laurens on
the origin and aim of the Ancient Mysteries .
(HIoss, Bibliographic, No . 3871 .)
Laurie . 	See Lawrie, Alexander .
Laver, Brazen . 	A large brazen vessel for
washing placed in the court of the Jewish tab-
ernacle, where the officiating priest cleansed
his hands and feet, and as well the entrails of
victims . Constructed by command of Moses
(Exod . xxxviii . 8) . 	A similar vessel was
symbolically used at the entrance, in the mod-
ern French and Scotch Rites, when conferring
the Apprentice Degree . It is used in many of
the degrees of the latter Rite .
Law, Moral . 	See Moral Law .
Law, Oral . 	See Oral Law .
Law, Parliamentary . See Parliamentary
Law .
LAWRIE 	427
Law, Sacred . 	The Sacred Scriptures, the
Bible, the Great Light in Masonry .
Lawful Information . 	See Information,
Lawful .
Lawrie, Alexander . He was originally a
stocking-weaver, and afterward became a
bookseller and stationer in Parliament Square,
Edinburgh, and printer of the Edinburgh Ga-
zette . 	He was appointed bookseller and sta-
tioner to the Grand Lodge of Scotland, and
afterward Grand Secretary . In 1804 he pub-
lished a book entitled The History of Free-
masonry, drawn from authentic sources q in-
formation ; with an Account of the 	Grand
Lodge of Scotland, from its Institution in
1736 to the present time, compiled from the
Records ; 	and 	an 	Appendix 	of Original
Papers . 	Of this valuable and interesting
work, Lawrie was at one time deemed the
author notwithstanding that the learning ex-
hibited in the first part and the numerous
references to Greek and Latin authorities,
furnished abundant internal evidence of his
incapacity, from previous education to have
written it . The doubt which naturally arises,
whether he was really the author, derives
great support from the testimony of the late
Dr . David Irving, Librarian to the Faculty of
Advocates, Edinburgh . A writer in the Notes
and Queries (3d Ser ., iii ., 366), on May 9, 1863,
stated that at the sale of the library of Dr .
Irving, on Saturday, March 28, 1862, a copy
of Lawrie's History of Freemasonry was sold
for £l . In that copy there was the following
memorandum in the handwriting of Dr .
Irving :
"The history of this book is somewhat curi-
ous, and perhaps there are only two individ-
uals now living by whom it could be divulged .
The late Alexander Lawrie, `Grand Stationer,'
wished to recommend himself to the Fra-
ternity by the publication of such a work .
Through Dr . Anderson, he requested me to
undertake its compilation, and offered a suit-
able remuneration . As I did not relish the
task, he made a similar offer to my old ac-
quaintance David Brewster, by whom it was
readily undertaken, and I can say was exe-
cuted to the entire satisfaction of his em-
ployers . The title-page does not exhibit the
name of the author, but the dedication bears
the signature of Alexander Lawrie, and the
volume is commonly described as Lawrie's
History of Freemasonry ."
There can be no doubt of the truth of this
statement . It has never been unusual for
publishers to avail themselves of the labors of .
literary men and affix their own names to
books which they have written by proxy .
Besides, the familiarity with abstruse learning
that this work exhibits, although totally ir-
reconcilable with the attainments of the
stocking-weaver, can readily be assigned to
Sir David Brewster the philosopher . (See
Lyon's Hist . of the Lodge of Edinburgh,, p . 55 .)
Lawrie had a son, William Alexaner Lau-
rie (he had thus, for some unknown reason,
changed the spelling of his name), who was for
very many years the Grand Secretary of the

428 	LAW
Grand Lodge of Scotland, and died in office in
1870, highly esteemed . In 1859 he published
a new edition of the History, with many addi-
tions, under the title of The History of Free-
masonry and the Grand Lodge of Scotland, with
chapters on the Knights Templar, Knights of
St . John, Mark Masonry, and the R . A . De-
gree .
Law, Sacred . See Sacred Law .
Laws, General . 	See Laws of Masonry .
Laws, Local . 	See Laws of Masonry .
Laws of Masonry . The laws of Masonry,
or those rules of action by which the Institu-
tion is governed, are very properly divided
into three classes : 1 . Landmarks . 2 . Gen-
eral Laws or Regulations . 3 . Local Laws or
Regulations .
1 . Landmarks . 	These are the unwritten
laws of the Order, derived from those ancient
and universal customs which date at so remote
a period that we have no record of their origin .
2 . General Laws . 	These are all those Reg-
ulations that have been enacted by such bod-
ies as had at the time universal jurisdiction .
They operate therefore, over the Craft
wheresoever dispersed ; and as the para-
mount bodies which enacted them have long
ceased to exist, it would seem that they are
unrepealable . It is generally agreed that
these General or Universal Laws are to be
found in the old Constitutions and Charges,
so far as they were recognized and accepted
by the Grand Lodge of England at the revival
in 1717, and adopted previous to the year
1721 .
3 . Local Laws . 	These are the Regulations
which, since 1721, have been and continue to
be enacted by Grand Lodges . They are of
force only in those jurisdictions which have
adopted them, and are repealable by the bod-
ies which have enacted them . They must, to
be valid, be not repugnant to the Landmarks
or the General Laws, which are of paramount
authority .
Lawsuits . 	In the Old Charges which were
approved in 1722, and published in 1723, by
Anderson, in the Book of Constitutions, the
regulations as to lawsuits are thus laid down :
"And if any of them do you injury, you must
apply to your own or his Lodge, and from
thence you may appeal to the Grand Lodge,
at the Quarterly Communication, and from
thence to the Annual Grand Lodge, as has
been the ancient laudable conduct of our fore-
fathers in every nation ; never taking a legal
course but when the case cannot be otherwise
decided, and patiently listening to the honest
and friendly advice of Master and Fellows,
when they would prevent you going to law
with strangers, or would excite you to put a
speedy pe riod to all lawsuits, that so you may
mind the affair of Masonry with the more
alacrity and success ; but with respect to
Brothers or Fellows at law, the Master and
Brethren should kindly offer their mediation,
which ought to be thankfully submitted to by
the contending brethren ; and if that sub-
mission is impracticable, they must, however,
carry on their process or lawsuit without
LEBANON
wrath and rancor, (not in the common way,)
saying or doing nothing which may hinder
brotherly love and good offices to be renewed
and continued ; that all may see the benign
influence of Masonry, as all true Masons have
done from the beginning of the world, and will
do to the end of time ." 	(Constitutions, 1723,
p . 56 .)
Lax 	Observance . 	(Observantia Lata .)
When the Rite of Strict Observance was in-
stituted in Germany by Von Hund, its dis-
ciples gave to all the other German Lodges
which refused to submit to its obedience and
adopt its innovations, but preferred to remain
faithful to the English Rite, the title of
" Lodges of Lax Observance ." Ragon, in his
OrthodoxieMaconnique (p . 236), has committed
the unaccountable error of calling it a schism,
established at Vienna in 1767 ; thus evidently
confounding it with Starck's Rite of the
Clerks of Strict Observance .
Lay Brothers . A society founded in the
eleventh century, consisting of two classes,
who were skilled in architecture ; also recog-
nized as a degree in the Rite of Strict Ob-
servance .
Layer . 	A term used in the old Records to
designate a workman inferior to an Operative
Freemason . Thus : "Alsoe that no Mason
make moulds, square or rule to any rough
layers ." (Harleian MS ., No . 2054 .)
In Dr . Murray's new English Dictionary
the word is said to mean "one who lays stones ;
a mason," and is described as obsolete in this
sense . A quotation is given from Wyclif's
Bible of 1382, 1 Chron . xxii . 15, "Many craft-
ise men, masouns and leyers ." 	[E . L . H .]
Lazarus, Order of. 	An order instituted
in Palestine, termed the "United Order of St .
Lazarus and of our Beloved Lady of Mount
Carmel ." It was a military order engaged
against the Saracens, by whom it was nearly
destroyed . In 1150 the knights assumed the
vows of Obedience, Poverty, and Chastity, in
the presence of William the Patriarch . In
1572, Gregory XII . united the Italian knights
of the order with that of St . Maurice . Vincent
de Paul, in 1617, founded a religious order,
which was approved in 1626, and erected into
a congregation in 1632, and so called from the
priory of St . Lazarus in Paris, which was oc-
cupied by the order during the French Revo-
lution . The members are called Priests of
the Mission and are employed in teaching and
missionary labors .
Lebanon . 	A mountain, or rather a range
of mountains in Syria, extending'from beyond
Sidon to Tyre, and forming the northern
boundary of Palestine . Lebanon is cele-
brated for the cedars which it produces, many
of which are from fifty to eighty feet in height,
and cover with their branches a space of
ground the diameter of which is still greater .
Hiram, King of Tyre, in whose dominions
Mount Lebanon was situated, furnished these
trees for the building of the Temple of Solo-
mon . In relation to Lebanon, Kitto, in his
Biblical Cyclopedia, has these remarks : "The
forests of the Lebanon mountains only could

LEBANON
supply the timber for the Temple . Such of
these forests as lay nearest the sea were in the
possession of the Phoenicians, among whom
timber was in such constant demand that
they had acquired great and acknowledged
skill in the felling and transportation thereof ;
and hence it was of such importance that
Hiram consented to employ large bodies of
men in Lebanon to hew timber as well as
others to perform the service of bringing it
down to the seaside, whence it was to be taken
along the coasts in floats to the port of Joppa,
from which place it could be easily taken
across the country to Jerusalem ."
The Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite
has dedicated to this mountain its Twenty-
second Degree, or Prince of Lebanon . The
Druses now inhabit Mount Lebanon, and
still preserve there a secret organization .
(See Druses .)
Lebanon, Prince of . 	See Knight of the
Royal Ax .
Le Bauld de Nans, Claude Etienne . A
distinguished Masonic writer, born at Besan-
con in 1736 . He was by profession a highly
respected actor, and a man of much learning,
which he devoted to the cultivation of Free-
masonry . He was for seven years Master of
the Lodge St . Charles de 1'Union, in Mann-
heim ; and on his removal to Berlin, in 1771,
became the Orator of the Lodge Royale York
de 1'Amitie, and editor of a Masonic journal .
He delivered, while Orator of the Lodge-a
position which he resigned in 1778-a large
number of discourses, a collection of which
was published at Berlin in 1788 . He also
composed many Masonic odes and songs,
and published, in 1781, a collection of his
songs for the use of the Lodge Royale York,
and in 1786, his Lyre Magonnique . 	He is de-
scribed by his contemporaries as a man of
great knowledge and talents, and Fessler has
paid a warm tribute to his learning and to his
labors in behalf of Masonry . He died at Ber-
lin in 1789 .
Leehangeur . 	An officer of one of the
Lodges of Milan, Italy, of whom Rebold
(Hilt . des Trois G . Loges, p . 575) gives the fol-
lowing account . When, in 1805, a Supreme
Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite was established at Milan, Lechangeur
became a candidate for membership . He
received some of the degrees ; but subse-
quently the founders of the Council, for satis-
factory reasons, declined to confer upon him
the superior grades . Incensed at this, Le-
changeur announced to them that he would
elevate himself above them by creating a rite
of ninety degrees, into which they should not be
admitted . He carried this project into effect,
and the result was the Rite of Mizraim, of
which he declared himself to be the Superior
Grand Conservator . His energies seem to
have been exhausted in the creation of his un-
wieldy rite, for no Chapters were established
except in the city of Naples . But in 1810 a
patent was granted by him to Michel Bedar-
ride, by whom the Rite was propagated in
France . Lechangeur's fame, as the founder
LECTURE 	429
of the Rite, was overshadowed by the greater
zeal and impetuosity of Bedarride, by whom
his self-assumed prerogatives were usurped .
He died in 1812 .
Lecture . 	Each degree of Masonry con-
tains a course of instruction, in which the cere-
monies, traditions, and moral instruction ap-
pertaining to the degree are set forth . This
arrangement is called a lecture . Each lec-
ture, for the sake of convenience, and for the
purpose of conforming to certain divisions in
the ceremonies, is divided into sections, the
number of which have varied at different peri-
ods, although the substance remains the same .
According to Preston, the lecture of the first
degree contains six sections ; that of the
second, four ; and that of the third twelve .
But according to the arrangement adopted in
this country, commonly known as the
adopted
lectures," there are three sections in the first
degree, two in the second, and three in the
third .
In the Entered Apprentices', the first sec-
tion is almost entirely devoted to a recapitu-
lation of the ceremonies of initiation . The
initiatory portion, however, supplies certain
modes of recognition . The second section is
occupied with an explanation of the ceremo-
nies that had been detailed in the first-the two
together furnishing the interpretation of rit-
ualistic symbolism . The third is exclusively
occupied in explaining the signification of the
symbols peculiar to the degree .
In the Fellow-Craft's Degree, the first sec-
tion, like the first section of the Entered Ap-
prentice, is merely a recapitulation of cere-
monies, with a passing commentary on some
of them . The second section introduces the
neophyte for the first time to the differences
between Operative and Speculative Masonry
and to the Temple of King Solomon as a
Masonic symbol, while the candidate is in-
geniously deputed as a seeker after knowl-
edge .
the Master's Degree the first section
is again only a detail of ceremonies . The
second section is the most important and im-
pressive portion of all the lectures, for it con-
tains the legend on which the whole symbolic
character of the Institution is founded . The
third section is an interpretation of the sym-
bols of the degree, and is, of all the sections,
the one least creditable to the composer .
In fact, it must be confessed that many of
the interpretations g~ven in these lectures are
unsatisfactory to the cultivated mind, and
seem to have been adopted on the principle
of the old Egyptians, who made use of sym-
bols to conceal rather than to express their
thoughts . Learned Masons have been, there-
fore, always disposed to go beyond the mere
technicalities and stereotyped phrases of the
lectures, and to look in the history and the
philosophy of the ancient religions, and the
organization of the ancient mysteries, for a
true explanation of most of the symbols of
Masonry, and there they have always been
enabled to find this true interpretation . The
lectures, however, serve as an introduction or

430 	LECTURER
liminary essay, enabling the student, as
advances in his initiation, to become ac-
guainted with the symbolic character of the
Institution . But if he ever expects to become
a learned Mason, he must seek in other sources
for the true development of Masonic symbol-
ism . 	The lectures alone are but the primer of
the science .
Lecturer, Grand . 	An officer known only
in the United States . He is appointed by the
Grand Master or the Grand Lodge . His duty
is to visit the subordinate Lodges, and instruct
them in the ritual of the Order as practised in
his jurisdiction, for which he receives compen-
sation partly from the Grand Lodge and partly
from the Lodges which he visits .
p
Lectures, History of the . 	To each of the
degrees of Symbolic Masonry a catechetical
instruction is appended, in which the cere-
monies, traditions, and other esoteric instruc-
tions of the degree are contained . A knowledge
of these lectures which must, of course, be
communicated by oral teaching-constitutes
a very important part of a Masonic education ;
and, un 	the great progress made within the
resent century 	Masonic literature, many
`bright Masons," as they are technically
styled, could claim no other foundation than
such a knowledge for their high Masonic rep-
utation . But some share of learning more
difficult to attain, and more sublime in its
character than anything to be found in these
oral catechisms, is now considered necessary
to form a Masonic scholar . Still, as the best
commentary on the ritual observances is to be
found in the lectures, and as they also furnish a
large portion of that secret mode of recogni-
tion, or that universal language, which has
always been the boast of the Institution, not
only is a knowledge of them absolutely neces-
sary to every practical Freemason, but a his-
tory of the changes which they have from time
to time undergone constitutes an interesting
part of the literature of the Order .
Comparatively speaking (comparatively in
respect to the age of the Masonic Institution),
the system of Lodge lectures is undoubtedly a
modern invention . That is to say, we can
find no traces of any forms of lectures like the
present before the middle, or perhaps the close,
of the seventeenth century . Examinations,
however, of a technical nature, intended to
test the claims of the person examined to the
privileges of the Order, appear to have existed
at an early period . They were used until at
least the middle of the eighteenth century,
but were perpetually changing, so that the
tests of one generation of Masons constituted
no tests for the succeeding one . Oliver very
properly describes them as being "something
like the conundrums of the present day-dif-
ficult of comprehension-admitting only of
one answer, which appeared to have no direct
correspondence with the question, and ap-
plicable only in consonance with the mysteries
and symbols of the Institution ." 	(On the Ma-
sonic Tests of the Eighteenth Century . Golden
Remains, vol . iv ., p . 16 .) 	These tests were
sometimes, at first, distinct from the lectures,
LECTURES
and sometimes, at a later period, incorporated
with them . A specimen is the answer to the
question, "How blows the wind? " which was,
"Due east and west ."
The "Examination of a German Stone-
Mason," which is given by Findel in the ap-
pendix to his History, was most probably in
use in the fourteenth century . Dr . Oliver
was in possession of what purports to be a
formula, which he supposes to have been used
during the Grand Mastership of Archbishop
Chichely, in the reign of Henry VI ., and from
which (Rev, of a Sq ., p . 11) he makes the fol-
lowing extracts :
"Q . Peace be here? A . I hope there is .
Q . What o'clock is it? A . It is going to six,
or going to twelve . Q . Are you very busy?
A . No . Q . Will you give or take? A . Both ;
or which you please . Q . How go squares?
A . Straight . Q . Are you rich or poor? A .
Neither . Q . Change me that? A . I will .
Q . In the name of the King and the Holy
Church, are you a Mason? A . I am so taken
to be . Q . What is a Mason? A . A man
begot b a man, born of a woman, brother to a
king . Q . What is a fellow? A . A compan-
ion of a prince, etc ."
There are other questions and answers of a
similar nature, conveying no instruction, and
intended apparently to be used only as tests .
Dr . Oliver attributes, it will be seen, the date
of these questions to the beginning of the fif-
teenth century ; but the correctness of this
assumption is doubtful . They have no inter-
nal evidence in style of having been the inven-
tion of so early a period of the English tongue .
The earliest form of catechism that we have
on record is that contained in the Sloane
MS ., No . 3329, now in the British Museum,
which has been printed and published by the
Rev . A . F . A . Woodford . One familiar with
the catechisms of the eighteenth century will
detect the origin of much that they contain
in this early specimen . It is termed in the
manuscript the Mason's "private discourse
by way of question and answer," and is in
these words :
6
"Q . Are you a mason? A . Yes, I am a
Freemason . Q . How shall I know that? A .
By perfect signes and tokens and the first
poynts of my Entrance . Q . Which is the first
signe or token, shew me the first and I will
shew you the second . A . The first is heal
and conceal or conceal and keep secrett by no
less paine than cutting my tongue from my
throat . Q . Where were you made a mason?
A . In a just and perfect or just and lawfull
lodge . Q . What is a just and perfect or just
and lawfull lodge? A . A just and perfect
lodge is two Interprintices two fellow crafter
and two Mast'rs, more or fewer the more the
merrier the fewer the better chear but if need
require five will serve that is, two Inter rin-
tices, two fellow craftes and one Mast r on
the highest hill or lowest valley of the world
without the crow of a cock or the bark of a
dogg . Q . From whome do you derive your
rincipalls? A . From a great'r than you .
. Who is that on earth that is great'r than a

LECTURES
freemason? 	A . He y't was caryed to y'e
highest pinnicall of the temple of Jerusalem .
Q . Whith'r is your lodge shut or open ? A .
It is shut . Q . Where lyes the keys of the
lodge doore? A . They ley in a bound case or
under a three cornered pavem't about a foote
and halfe from the lodge door . Q . What is
the key of your lodge doore made of? A .
It is not made of wood stone iron or steel
or any sort of mettle but the tongue of good
report behind a Broth'rs back as well as be-
fore his face . Q . How many jewels belong to
your lodge? A . There are three the square
pavem't the blazing star and the Danty tass-
ley . 	Q . How long is the cable rope of your
lodge? A . As long as from the Lop of the
liver to the root of the tongue . Q . How many
lights are in your lodge? A . Three the sun
the mast'r and the square . Q . How high is
your lodge? A . Without foots yards or
Inches, it reaches to heaven . Q . How stood
your lodge? A . East and west as all holly
Temples stand . Q . W'ch is the mast'rs place
in the lodge? A . The east place is the mast'rs
place in the lodge and the jewell resteth on him
first and he setteth men to worke w't the m'rs
have in the forenoon the wardens reap in the
afternoon . Q . Where was the word first given?
A . At the tower of Babylon . Q . Where did
they first call their lodge? A . At the holy
chapell of St . John . Q . How stood your
lodge? A . As the said holy chapell and all
other holy Temples stand (viz .) east and west .
Q . How many lights are in your lodge? A .
Two one to see to go in and another to see to
work . Q . What were you sworne by? A .
By God and the square . Q . Whither above
the cloathes or und'r the cloathes? A . Und'r
the cloathes . Q . Und'r what acme? A . Und'r
the right arme . God is gratfull to all Wor-
ehipfull Mast'rs and fellows in that worship-
full lodge from whence we last came and to
you good fellow w't is your name . A . J or B
then giving the grip of the hand he will say
Broth 'r John greet you well you . A . God's
good greeting to you dear Broth'r ."
But when we speak of the lectures, in the
modern sense, as containing an exposition of
the symbolism of the Order, we may consider
it as an established historical fact, that the
Fraternity were without any such system until
after the revival in 1717 . Previous to that
time brief extemporary addresses and charges
in addition to these test catechisms were used
by the Masters of Lodges, which, of course,
varied in excellence with the varied attain-
ments and talents of the presiding officer .
We know, however, that a series of charges
were in use about the middle and end of the
seventeenth century, which were ordered "to
be read at the making of a Freemason ."
These "Charges and Covenants," as they
were called, contained no instructions on the
symbolism and ceremonies of the Order, but
were confined to an explanation of the duties
of Masons to each other . They were alto-
gether exoteric in their character, and have
accordingly been repeatedly printed in the au-
thorized publications of the Fraternity .
LECTURES 	431
Dr . Oliver, who had ampler opportunities
than any other Masonic writer of investigat-
ing this subject, says that the earliest author-
ized lectures with which he has met were
those of 1720 . They were arranged by Drs .
Anderson and Desaguliers, perhaps at the
same time that they were compiling the
Charges and Regulations from the ancient
Constitutions . They were written in a cate-
chetical form, which form has ever since been
retained in all subsequent Masonic lectures .
Oliver says that "the questions and answers
are short and comprehensive, and contain a
brief digest of the general principles of the
Craft as it was understood at that period ."
The "digest" must, indeed, have been brief,
since the lecture of the Third Degree, or what
was called "the Master's Part," contained
only thirty-one questions many of which are
simply tests of recognition . Dr . Oliver says
the number of questions was only seven ; but
he probably refers to the seven tests which
conclude the lecture . There axe, however,
twenty-four other questions that precede
these .
A comparison of these-the primitive lec-
tures, as they may be called-with those in
use in America at the present day, demon-
strate that a great many changes have taken
place . There are not only omissions of some
things, and additions of others, but some-
times the explanations of the same points are
entirely different in the two systems . Thus
the Andersonian lectures describe the " fur-
niture " of a Lodge as being the "Mosaic pave-
ment, blazing star, and indented tassel, em-
blems which are now, perhaps more properly,
designated as "ornaments ." But the present
furniture of a Lodge is also added to the pave-
ment, star, and tassel, under the name of
"other furniture ." The "greater lights" of
Masonry are entirely omitted, or, if we are to
suppose them to be meant by the expression
"fixed lights," then these are referred, differ-
ently from our system, to the three windows of
the Lodge .
In the First Degree may be noticed, among
others, the following points in the Andersonian
lectures which are omitted in the American
system : the place and duty of the Senior
and Junior Entered Apprentices, the punish-
ment of cowans, the bone bone-box, and all
that refers to it ; the clothing of the Master,
the age of an Apprentice, the uses of the day
and night, and the direction of the wind .
These latter, however, are, strictly speaking
what the Masons of that time denominated
"tests ." In the same degree, the following,
besides many other important points in the
present system are altogether omitted in the
old lectures of Anderson : the place where
Masons anciently met, the theological ladder,
and the lines parallel . Important charges
have been made in several particulars ; as, for
instance, in the "points of entrance," the an-
cient lecture giving an entirely different inter-
pretation of the e ression, and designating
what are now call " points of entrance" by
the term "principal signs" ; the distinctions

432 	LECTURES
between Operative and Speculative Masonry,
which are now referred to the Second Degree,
are there given in the First ; and the dedica-
tion of the Bible, compass, and square is dif-
ferently explained .
In the Second Degree, the variations of the
old from the modern lectures are still greater .
The old lecture is, in the first place, very brief,
and much instruction deemed important at
the present day was then altogether omitted .
There is no reference to the distinctions be-
tween Operative and Speculative Masonry
(but this topic is adverted to in the former
lecture) ; the approaches to the middle cham-
ber are very differently arranged ; and not a
single wordy is said of the fords of the river
Jordan . It must be confessed that the an-
cient lecture of the Fellow-Craft is immeasur-
ably inferior to that contained in the modern
system, and especially in that of Webb .
The Andersonian lecture of the Third De-
gree is brief, and therefore imperfect . The
legend is, of course, referred to, and its expla-
nation occupies nearly the whole of the lecture ;
but the details are meager, and many impor-
tant facts are omitted, while there are in other
points striking differences between the ancient
and the present system .
But, after all, there is a general feature of
similarity-a substratum of identity-per-
vading the two systems of lectures-the an-
cient and the modern-which shows that the
one derives its parentage from the other . In
fact, some of the answers given in the year
1730 are, word for word, the same as those
used in America at the present time .
[Martin Clare and Dunckerley (q . v .) are
often credited with being revisers of the Eng-
lish ritual and lectures, but as there is no
proof whatever that they had anything to
do with such revision it does not seem
worth while to repeat the well-worn tale here .
-E . L . H .]
[Nothing can be said with any certainty
about the lectures in England until the last
quarter of the eighteenth century, when Will-
iam Preston took the matter in hand and
revised or more probably rewrote them en-
tirely .-E . L . H .]
He divided the lecture on the First Degree
pinto six sections, the Second into four, and the
third into twelve . But of the twelve sections
of the third lecture, seven only strictly apper-
tain to the Master's Degree, the remaining five
referring to the ceremonies of the Order
which, in the Adierican system are contained
in the Past Master's lectA*e . Neaten has re-
capitulated the subjects of these several lec-
tures in his Illustrations of Masonry ; and if
the book were not now so readily accessible, it
would be worth while to copy his remarks .
It is sufficient, however, to say that he has pre-
sented us with a philosophical system of Ma-
sonry, which, coming immediately after the
unscientific and scanty details which up to his
time had been the subjects of Lodge instruc-
tions, must have been like the bursting forth
of a sun from the midst of midnight darkness .
There was no twilight or dawn to warn the
LECTURES
unexpectant Fraternity of the light that was
about to shine upon them . But at once
without preparation-without any gradual
progress or growth from almost nothing to
superfluity-the Prestonian lectures were
given to the Order in all their fulness of illus-
tration and richness of symbolism and science,
as a substitute for the plain and almost un-
meaning systems that had previously pre-
vailed . Not that Freemasonry had not al-
ways been a science, but that for all that time,
and longer, her science had been dormant-
had been in abeyance . From 1717 the Craft
had been engaged in something less profitable,
but more congenial than the cultivation of
Masonic science . The pleasant suppers, the
modicums of punch, the harmony of song, the
miserable puns, which would have provoked
the ire of Johnson beyond anything that Bos-
well has recorded, left no time for inquiry into
abstruser matters . The revelations of Dr .
Oliver's square furnish us abundant positive
evidence of the low state of Masonic literature
in those days ; and if we need negative proof,
we will find it in the entire absence of any
readable book on Scientific Masonry, until the
appearance of Hutchinson's and Preston's
works . Preston's lectures were, therefore,
undoubtedly the inauguration of a new era in
the esoteric system of Freemasonry .
These lectures continued for nearly half a
century to be the authoritative text of the
Order in England . But in 1813 the two
Grand Lodges-the "Moderns" and the
"Ancients," as they were called-after years
of antagonism, were happily united, and then,
as the first exercise of this newly combined au-
thority, it was determined "to revise" the
system of lectures .
This duty was entrusted to the Rev . Dr .
Hemming, the Senior Grand Warden, and the
result was the Union or Hemming lectures,
which are now the authoritative standard of
English Masonry . In these lectures many
alterations of the Prestonian system were
made, and some of the most cherished symbols
of the Fraternity were abandoned, as, for in-
stance, the twelve grand points, the initiation of
the free born, and the lines parallel . Preston's
lectures were rejected in consequence, it is
said, of their Christian references ; and Dr .
Hemming, in attempting to avoid this error,
fell into a greater one, of omitting in his new
course some of the important ritualistic land-
marks of the Order .
[Nothing definite can be stated about the
lectures used in America until near the end of
the eighteenth century, when a system of lec-
tures was put forth by Thomas Smith Webb .
-E . L . H .]
The lectures of Webb contained much that
was almost a verbal copy of parts of Preston ;
but the whole system was briefer, and the
paragraphs were framed with an evident view
to facility in committing them to memory . It
is an herculean task to acquire the whole sys-
tem of Prestonian lectures, while that of Webb
may be mastered in a comparatively short
time, and by much inferior intellects . There

LEFRANC
have, in consequence, in former years been
many "bright Masons" and "skilful lectur-
ers " whose brightness and skill consisted only
in the easy repetition from memory of the set
form of phrases established by Webb, and who
were otherwise ignorant of all the science, the
philosophy, and the history of Masonry . But
m the later years, a perfect verbal knowledge
of the lectures has not been esteemed so highly
in America as in England, and the most eru-
dite Masons have devoted themselves to the
study of-those illustrations and that symbol-
ism of the Order which lie outside of the lec-
tures . Book Masonry-that is, the study of
the principles of the Institution as any other
science is studied, by means of the various
treatises which have been written on these
subjects-has been, from year to year, getting
more popular with the American Masonic pub-
lic which is becoming emphatically a reading
people .
f
The lecture on the Third Degree is emi-
nently Hutchinsonian in its character, and
contains the bud from which, by a little culti-
vation, we might bring forth a gorgeous blos-
som of symbolism . Hence, the Third Degree
has always been the favorite of American Ma-
sons . But the lectures of the First and Sec-
ond degrees, the latter particularly, are mea-
er and unsatisfactory . The explanations,
or instance, of the form and extent of the
Lodge, of its covering of the theological lad-
der, and especially of the point within the
circle, will disappoint any intellectual student
who is seeking, in a symbolical science, for
some rational explanation of its symbols that
promises to be worthy of his investigations .
Lefranc . 	The Abb6 Lefranc, Superior of
the House of the Eudistes at Caen was a very
bitter enemy of Freemasonry, an~ the author
of two libelous works against Freemasonry,
both published in Paris ; the first and best
known, entitled Le Voile leve pour les cur-
teux, ou le secret des revolutions, revels d
l'aide de la Franc-Magonnerie, 1791 (repub-
lished at Liege in 1827), and the other, Con-
juration contre la religion Catholique et les
souverains, dont le projet, eongu eu France,
doit s'exeeuter dens l'univers entier, 	1792 .
In these scandalous books, and especially in
the former, Lefranc has, to use the language
of Thory (Acta Let ., i ., 192), "vomited the
most undeserved abuse of the Order ." Of the
Veil Lifted, the two great detractors of Ma-
sonry, Robison and Barruel, entertained dif-
ferent opinions . Robison made great use of it
in his Proofs of a Conspiracy ; but Barruel,
while speaking highly of the Abbt's virtues,
doubts his accuracy and declines to trust to
his authority . Lefranc was slain in the mas-
sacre of September 2d, at the Convent of the
Carmelites, in Paris, with one hundred and
ninety-one other priests . Thory (1 . c .) says
that M . Ledhui, a Freemason, who was pres-
ent at the sanguinary scene, attempted to
save the life of Lefranc, and nearly lost his
own in the effort . The Abbt ; says that, on the
death of a friend, who was a zealous Mason
and Master of a Lodge, he found among his
LEGEND 	433
papers a collection of Masonic writings con-
taining the rituals of a great many degrees,
and from these he obtained the information
on which he has based his attacks upon the
Order . Some idea may be formed of his ac-
curacy and credibility from the fact that he
asserts that Faustus Socinus, the Father of
Modern Unitarianism, was the contriver and
inventor of the Masonic system-a theory so
absurd that even Robison and Barruel both
reject it .
Left Hand . 	Among the ancients the left
hand was a symbol of equity and justice .
Thus, Apuleius (Met ., 1 . xi .), when describing
the procession in honor of Isis says one of the
ministers of the sacred rites "bore the symbol
of equity, a left hand, fashioned with the palm
extended ; which seems to be more adapted to
a dm inistering equity than the right, from its
natural inertness, and its being endowed
with no craft and no subtlety ."
Left Side . 	In the symbolism of Masonry,
the First Degree is represented by the left
side, which is to indicate that as the left is the
weaker part of the body, so is the Entered Ap-
prentice s Degree the weakest part of Ma-
sonry . This doctrine, that the left is the
weaker side of the body, is very ancient . Plato
says it arises from the fact that the right is
more used ; but Aristotle contends that the
organs of the right side are by nature more
powerful than those of the left .
Legally Constituted . 	See Constituted,
Legally .
Legate . 	In the Middle Ages, a legate, or
legatus, was one who was, says Du Cange
(Glossar .), "in provincias a Principe ad exer-
cendas judicias mittebalur," sent by a prince
into the provinces to exercise judicial func-
tions . The word is now applied by the Su-
preme Council of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite to designate certain persons who
are sent into unoccupied territory to propa-
gate the Rite . The word is, however, of re-
cent origin, not having been used before 1866 .
A legate should be in possession of at least the
Thirty-second Degree .
Legend . 	Strictly speaking, a legend, from
the Latin, legendus, "to be read," should be
restricted to a story that has been committed
to writing ; but by good usage the word has
been applied more extensively, and now prop-
erly means a narrative, whether true or false,
that has been traditionally preserved from
the time of its first oral communication . Such
is the definition of a Masonic legend . The
authors of the Conversations Lexicon, refer-
ring to the monkish lives of the saints which
originated in the twelfth and thirteenth cen-
turies, say that the title legend was given to all
fictions which made pretensions to truth .
Such a remark, however correct it may be in
reference to these monkish narratives, which
were often invented as ecclesiastical exercises,
is by no means applicable to the legends of
Freemasonry . These are not necessarily fic-
titious, but are either based on actual and his-
torical facts which have been but slightly mod-
ified, or they are the offspring and expansion

434 	LEGEND
of some symbolic idea ; in which latter respect
they differ entirely from the monastic legends,
which often have only the fertile imagination
of some studious monk for the basis of their
construction .
The instructions of Freemasonry are given
to us in two modes : by the symbol and by the
legend . 	The symbol is a material, and the
legend a mental, representation of a truth .
The sources of neither can be in every case au-
thentically traced . Many of them come to us,
undoubtedly, from the old Operative Masons
of the Medieval gilds . But whence they got
them is a question that naturally arises, and
which still remains unanswered . Others have
sprung from a far earlier source- perhaps, as
Creuzer has suggested in his Sym~bolik, from an
effort to engraft higher and purer knowledge
on an imperfect religious idea . If so, then the
myths of the Ancient Mysteries, and the leg-
ends or traditions of Freemasonry, would have
the same remote and the same final cause .
They would differ in construction, but they
would agree in design . For instance, the
myth of Adonis in the Syrian mysteries, and
the legend of Hiram Abif in the Third Degree,
would differ very widely in their details ; but
the object of each would be the same, namely,
to teach the doctrine of the restoration from
death to eternal life .
The legends of Freemasonry constitute a
considerable and a very important part of its
ritual . Without them, its most valuable por-
tions as a scientific system would cease to
exist . It is, in fact, in the traditions and
legends of Freemasonry, more, even, than in
its material symbols, that we are to find the
deep religious instructions which the Institu-
tion is intended to inculcate . It must be
remembered that Freemasonry has been de-
fined to be "a system of morality, veiled in al-
legory and illustrated by symbols ." Sym bols,
then, alone, do not constitute the whole of the
system : allegory comes in for its share ; and
this allegory, which veils the Divine truths of
Masonry, is presented to the neophyte in the
various legends which have been traditionally
preserved in the Order .
They may be divided into three classes :
1 . The Mythical legend . 2 . The Philosoph-
ical legend 	3 . The Historical legend . And
these three classes may be defined as follows :
1 . The myth may be engaged in the trans-
mission of a narrative of early deeds and
events having a foundation in truth, which
truth, however, has been greatly distorted and
perverted by the omission or introduction of
circumstances and personages, and then it
constitutes the mythical legend .
2 . Or it may have been invented and
adopted as the medium of enunciating a par-
ticular thought, or of inculcating a certain doc-
trine, when it becomes a philosophical legend .
3 . Or, lastly, the truthful elements of actual
history may greatly predominate over the fic-
titious and invented materials of the myth ;
and the narrative may be, in the main, made
up of facts, with a slight coloring of imagina-
tion, when it forms an historical legend .
LEGEND
Legend of Enoch . 	See Enoch .
Legend of Euclid . 	See Euclid, Legend of .
Legend of the Craft . 	The Old Records
of the Fraternity of Operative Freemasons,
under the general name of Old Constitutions or
Constitutions of Masonry, or Old Charges, were
written in the fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth,
and seventeenth centuries . The loss of many
of these by the indiscretion of overzealous
brethren was deplored by Anderson ; but a few
of them have been long known to us, and
many more have been recently recovered, by
the labors of such men as Hughan, from the
archives of old Lodges and from manuscript
collections in the British Museum . In these
is to be found a history of Freemasonry ; full,
it is true, of absurdities and anachronisms,
and yet exceedingly interesting, as giving us
the belief of our ancient brethren on the sub-
ject of the origin of the Order . This history
has been called by Masonic writers the "LEG-
END OF THE CRAFT " because it is really a leg-
endary narrative, laving little or no historic
authenticity . In all these Old Constitutions,
the legend is substantially the same ; showing,
evidently, a common origin ; most probably
an oral teaching which prevailed in the earliest
ages of the confraternity . In giving it, the
Dowland Manuscript, as reproduced in Hugh-
an's Old Charges (1872), has been selected for
the purpose, because it is believed to be a
copy of an older one of the beginning of the
sixteenth century, and because its rather
modernized spelling makes it more intelligible
to the general reader .
THE LEGEND OF THE CRAFT .
"Before Noyes floode there was a man
called Lameche as it is written in the Byble,
in the iiijth chapter of Genesis ; and this La-
meche had two wives, and the one height
Ada and the other height Sella ; by his first
wife Ada he gott two sons, and that one
Jahell, and thother Tuball, And by that other
wife Sella he gott a son and a daughter . And
these four children founden the begining of all
the sciences in the world . And this elder son
Jahell found the science of Geometrie, and he
departed flocks of sheepe and lambs in the
field, and first wrought house of stone and
tree, as is noted in the chapter above said .
And his brother Tuball found the science of
Musicke, songe of tonge, harpe and orgaine .
And the third brother Tubal1 Cain found
smithcraft of gold, silver, copper, iron, and
steele ; and the daughter found the craft of
Weavinge . And these children knew well that
God would take vengeance for synn, either by
fire or by water ; wherefore they writt their
science that they had found in two pillars of
stone, that they might be found after Noyes
flood . And that one stone was marble, for
that would not bren with fire ; and that other
stone was clepped laterns, and would not
drown in noe water .
"Our intent is to tell you trulie how and in
what manner these stones were found, that
thise sciences were written in . The great Her-
marynes that was Cubys son, the which Cub

LEGEND
was Sem's son that was Noys son . This
Hermarynes, afterwards was called Harmes
the father of wise men : he found one of the
two pillars of stone, and found the science
written there, and he taught it to other men .
And at the making of the Tower of Babylon
there was Masonrye first made much of . And
the Kinge of Babylon that height Nemrothe,
was a mason himself e, and loved well the sci-
ence, as it is said with masters of histories .
And when the City of Nyneve, and other cit-
ties of the East should be made, Nemrothe,
the Kinge of Babilon, sent thither threescore
Masons at the rogation of the Kinge of Nyneve
his cosen . And when he sent them forth, he
gave them a charge on this manner : That
they should be true each of them to other, and
that they should love truly together, and that
they should serve their lord truly for their
pay ; soe that the master may have worshipp,
and all that long to him . And other moe
charges he gave them . And this was the first
tyme that ever Masons had any charge of his
science .
"Moreover, when Abraham and Sara his
wife went into Egipt there he taught the
Seaven Scyences to the Egiptians ; and he
had a worthy Scoller that height Ewclyde,
and he learned right well, and was a master of
all the vii Sciences liberall . And in his dayes
it befell that the lord and the estates of the
realme had soe many sons that they had
gotten some by their wifes and some by other
ladyes of the realme ; for that land is a hott
land and a plentious of generation . And they
had not competent livelode to find with their
children ; wherefore they made much care .
And then the King of the land made a great
Counsell and a parliament, to witt, how they
might find their children honestly as gentle-
men . And they could find noe manner of
good way . And then they did crye through
all the realme, if their were any man that could
informe them, that he should come to them,
and he should be soe rewarded for his travail,
that he should hold him pleased .
"After that this cry was made, then came
this worthy clarke Ewclyde, and said to the
king and to all his great lords : `If yee will,
take me your children to governe and to
teache them one of the Seaven §cyences,
wherewith they may live honestly as gentle-
men should, under a condition that yee will
grant me and them a commission that I may
have power to rule them after the manner that
the science ought to be ruled .' And that the
Kinge and all his Counsell granted to him
anone, and sealed their commission . And then
this worthy Doctor tooke to him these lords'
sons, and taught them the scyence of Geom-
etrie in practice, for to work in stones- all
manner of worthy worke that belongeth to
buildinge churches, temples, castells, towres,
and manors, and all other manner of build-
ings ; and he gave them a charge on this man-
ner :
"The first was, that they should be true to
the Kinge, and to the lord that they owe .
And that they should love well together, and
LEGEND 	435
be true each one to other . And that they
should call each other his fellowe, or else
brother and not by servant, nor his nave, nor
none other foule name . And that the should
deserve their paie of the lord, or of the master
that they serve . And that they should or-
daine the wisest of them to be master of the
worke ; and neither for love nor great lyn-
neage, ne ritches ne for noe favour to lett an-
other that hath little conning for to be master
of the lord's worke wherethrough the lord
should be evill served and they ashamed . And
also that they should call their governors of
the worke, Master, in the time that they
worke with him . And other many moe
charges that longe to tell . And to all these
charges he made them to sweare a great oath
that men used in that time ; and ordayned
them for reasonable wages, that they might
live honestly by 	And- also that they should
come and semble together every yeare once
how they might worke best to serve the lord
for his profitt= and to their own worshipp ; and
to correct within themselves him that had
trespassed against the science . And thus was
the scyence grounded there ; and that worthy
Mr . Ewclide gave it the name of Geometric .
And now it is called through all this land Ma-
so 	e .
" ythen longe after, when the Children of
Israeli were coming into the Land of Beheast,
that is now called amongst us the Country of
Jhrlm, King David began the Temple that
they called Templum D'ni and it is named
with us the Temple of Jerusalem . And the
same King David loved Masons well and
cherished them much, and gave them good
paie . And he gave the charges and the man-
ners as he had learned of Egipt given by
Ewclyde, and other charges moe that ye shall
heare afterwards . And after the decease of
Kinge David, Salamon, that was David's
son, performed out the Temple that his
father begone ; and sent after Masons into
divers countries and of divers lands- and
gathered them together, so that he had four-
score thousand workers of stone, and were all
named Masons . And he chose out of them
three thousand that were ordayned to be
maisters and governors of his worke . And
furthermore, there was a Kinge of another
region that men called Iram, and he loved well
Kinga Solomon, and he gave him tymber to his
worke . And he had a son that height Aynon,
and he was a Master of Geometric, and was
chiefe Maister of all his Masons, and was
Master of all his gravings and carvinge, and of
all other manner of Masonrye that longed to
the Temple ; and this is witnessed by the Bible
in libro Regum the third chapter . And this
Solomon confirmed both charges and the man-
ners that his father had given to Masons .
And thus was that worthy science of Mason-
rye confirmed in the country of Jerusalem, and
in many other kingdomes .
"Curious craftsmen walked about full wide
into divers countryes, some because of learn-
inge more craft and cunninge, and some to
teach them that had but little conynge . And

436 	LEGEND
soe it befell that there was one curious Mason
that height Maymus Grecus, that had been at
the making of Solomon's Temple, and he came
into France, and there he taught the science
of Masonrye to men of France . 	And there
was one of the Regal lyne of France, that
height Charles Martell ; and he was a man
that loved well such a science, and drew to this
Maymus Grecus that is above said, and
learned of him the science, and tooke upon
him the charges and manners ; and afterwards,
by the grace of God, he was elect to be Kinge
of France . 	And when he was in his estate he
tooke Masons, and did helpe to make men
Masons that were none ; and set them to
worke, and gave them both the charge and the
manners and good paie, as he had learned of
other Masons ; and confirmed them a Chartor
from yeare to yeare, to hold their semble wher
they would ; and cherished them right much ;
And thus came the science into France .
"England in all this season stood voyd as
for any charge of Masonrye unto St . Albones
tyme . 	And in his days the King of England
that was a Pagan, he did wall the towne about
that is called Sainct Albones . And Sainct Al-
bones was a worthy Knight, and steward with
the Kinge of his Household, and had gov-
ernance of the realme, and also of the makinge
of the town walls ; and loved well Masons and
cherished them much . And he made their
paie right good, standinge as the realm did,
for he gave them ijs . vjd . a weeke, and i ijd .
t o their nonesynches . And before that time,
through all this land, a Mason took but a
penny a day and his meate, till Sainct Albone
amended it, and gave them a chartour of the
Kinge and his Counsell for to hold a general
councell, and gave it the name of Assemble ;
and thereat he was himselfe, and helped to
make Masons, and gave them charges as yee
shall heare afterward .
"Right scone after the decease of Sainct
Albone, there came divers warrs into the
realme of England of divers Nations, soe that
the good rule of Masonrye was destroyed unto
the tyme of Kinge Athelstone days that was a
worthy Kingeof England and broughtthis land
into good rest and peace' and builded many
great works of Abbyes and Towres, and other
many divers buildings ; and loved well Masons .
And he had a son that height Edwinne, and he
loved Masons much more than his father did .
And he was a great practiser in Geometry ;
and he drew him much to talke and to com-
mune with Masons, and to learne of them sci-
ence ; and afterward, for love that he had to
Masons, and to the science, he was made a
Mason, and he gatt of the Kinge his father a
Chartour and Commission to hold every yeare
once an Assemble, wher that ever they would
within the realme of England • and to correct
within themselves defaults and trespasses that
were done within the science . 	And he held
himself an Assemble at Yorke, and there he
made Masons, and gave them charges, and
taught them the manners, and commanded
that rule to be kept ever after, and tooke then
the Chartour and Commission to keepe, and
LEGEND
made ordinance that it should be renewed
from Kinge to Kinge .
"And when the assemble was gathered he
made a cry that all old Masons and young
that had any writeinge or understanding of
the charges and the manners that were made
before in this land or in any other that they
should show them forth . 	And when it was
proved, there were founden some in Frenche
and some in Greek, and some in English, and
some in other languages ; and the intent of
them all was founden all one . 	And he did
make a booke thereof, and how the science was
founded . 	And he himselfe bad and com-
manded that it should be readd or tould, when
that any Mason should be made, for to give
him his Charge . 	And fro that day unto this
tyme manners of Masons have beene kept in
that forme as well as men might governe it .
And furthermore divers Assembles have beene
put and ordayned certaine charges by the best
advice of Masters and fellowes ."
If anyone carefully examines this legend,
he will find that it is really a history of the rise
and progress of architecture, with which is
mixed allusions to the ancient gilds of the Op-
erative Masons . 	Geometry also, as a science
essentially necessary to the proper cultivation
of architecture, receives a due share of atten-
tion . 	In thus confounding architecture, ge-
ometry and Freemasonry, the workmen of
the Middle Ages were but obeying a natural in-
stinct which leads every man to seek to ele-
vate the character of his profession, and to
give to it an authentic claim to antiquity .
It is this instinct which has given rise to so
much of the mythical element in the modern
history of Masonry . Anderson has thus writ-
ten his records in the very spirit of the legend
of the Craft, and Preston and Oliver have fol-
lowed his example . 	Hence this legend de-
rives its great importance from the fact that
it has given a complexion to all subsequent
Masonic history . 	In dissecting it with crit-
ical hands, we shall be enabled to dissever its
historical from its mythical portions, and as-
sign to it its true value as an exponent of the
Masonic sentiment of the Middle Ages .
Legend of the Gild . 	A title by which
the Legend of the Craft is sometimes desig-
nated in reference to the Gild of . Operative
Masons .
Legend of the Royal Arch Degree .
Much of this legend is a myth, having very
little foundation, and some of it none, in his-
torical accuracy . 	But underneath it all there
lies a profound stratum of philosophical sym-
bolism . 	The destruction and the rebuilding
of the Temple by the efforts of Zerubbabel and
his compatriots, the captivity and the return
of the captives, are matters of sacred history ;
but many of the details have been invented
and introduced for the purpose of giving form
to a symbolic idea . 	And this idea, expressed
in the symbolism of the Royal Arch, is the
very highest form of that which the ancient
Mystagogues called the euresis, or the dis-
covery . 	There are some portions of the
legend which do not bear directly on the sym-

LEGEND
bolism of the second Temple as a type of the
second life, but which still have an indirect
bearing on the general idea . Thus the'par-
ticular legend of the three weary sojourners is
undoubtedly a mere myth, there being no
known historical testimony for its support ;
but it is evidently the enunciation symbolic-
ally of the religious and philosophical idea that
Divine truth may be sought and won only by
successful perseverance through all the dan-
F.ers, trials, and tribulations of life, and that
it is not in this, but in the next life, that it is
fully attained .
The legend of the English and the American
systems is identical ; that of the Irish is very
different as to the time and events ; and the
legend of the Royal Arch of the Scottish Rite
is more usually called the legend of Enoch .
Legend of the Third Degree . 	The most
important and significant of the legendary
symbols of Freemasonry is, undoubtedly, that
which relates to the fate of Hiram Abif, com-
monly called, "by way of excellence," the
Legend of the Third Degree .
The first written record that I have been
able to find of this legend is contained in the
second edition of Anderson's Constitutions,
published in 1738 (p . 14), and is in these
words :
"It (the Temple) was finished in the short
space of seven years and six months, to the
amazement of all the world ; when the cape-
stone was celebrated by the Fraternity with
b eat joy . But their joy was soon interrupted
y the sudden death of their dear master,
Hiram Abif, whom they decently interred in
the Lodge near the Temple, according to
ancient usage ."
In the next edition of the same work, pub-
lished in 1756 (p. 24), a few additional circum-
stances are related, such as the participation
of King Solomon in the general grief and the
fact that the King of Israel "ordered his
obsequies to be performed with great solem-
nity and decency ." With these exceptions,
and the citations of the same passages, made
by subsequent authors, the narrative has al-
ways remained unwritten, and descended,
from age to age, through the means of oral
tradition .
The legend has been considered of so much
importance that it has been preserved in the
symbolism of every Masonic rite . No matter
what modifications or alterations the general
system may have undergone-no matter how
much the ingenuity or the imagination of the
founders of rites may have perverted or cor-
rupted other symbols, abolishing the old and
substituting new ones-the legend of the
Temple Builder has ever been left untouched,
to present itself in all the integrity of its
ancient mythical form .
What, then, is the signification of this sym-
bol so important and so extensively diffused?
What interpretation can we give to it that
will account for its universal adoption? How
is it that it has thus become so intimately
interwoven with Freemasonry as to make, to
all appearances, a part of its very essence, and
LEGEND 	437
u
to have been always deemed inseparable
from it?
To answer these questions satisfactorily, it
is necessary to trace, in a brief investigation,
the remote origin of the institution of Free-
masonry and its connection with the ancient
systems of initiation .
It was, then, the object of all the rites and
mysteries of antiquity to teach the doctrine
of the immortality of the soul . This dogma,
shining as an almost solitary beacon-light in
the surrounding gloom of Pagan darkness, had
undoubtedly been received from that ancient
people or priesthood, among whom it probably
existed only in the form of an abstract proposi-
tion or a simple and unembellished tradition .
But in the more sensual minds of the Pagan
philosophers and mystics, the idea, when
presented to the initiates in their mysteries,
was always conveyed in the form of a scenic
representation . The influence, too of the
early Sabian worship of the sun and heavenly
bodies, in which the solar orb was adored
on its resurrection, each morning, from the
apparent death of its evening setting, caused
this rising sun to be adopted in the more an-
cient mysteries as a symbol of the regenera-
tion of the soul .
Thus, in the Egyptian mysteries we find a
representation of the death and subsequent
regeneration of Osiris ; in the Phoenician, of
Adonis ; in the Syrian, of Dionysus ; in all of
which the scenic apparatus of initiation was
intended to indoctrinate the candidate into
the dogma of a future life .
It will be sufficient here to refer to the
theory of Oliver, that through the instrumen-
tality of the Tyrian workmen at the Temple
of King Solomon, what he calls the spurious
and pure branches of the Masonic system were
united at Jerusalem, and that the same
method of scenic representation was adopted
by the latter from the former, and the narra-
tive of the Temple Builder substituted for that
of Dionysus, which was the myth peculiar to
the mysteries practised by the Tyrian work-
men .
The idea, therefore, proposed to be com-
municated in the myth of the ancient mys-
teries was the same as that which is now con-
veyed in the Masonic Legend of the Third
Degree .
Hence, then, Hiram Abif is, in the Masonic
system, the symbol of human nature, as de-
veloped in the life here and the life to come ;
and so, while the Temple was the visible sym-
bol of the world, its builder became the
mythical symbol of man, the dweller and
worker in that world .
Man, setting forth on the voyage of life,
with faculties and powers fitting him for the
due exercise of the high duties to whose per-
formance he has been called, holds, if he be
"a curious and cunning workman," skilled in
all moral and intellectual purposes (and it is
only of such men that the Temple Builder can
be the symbol), within the grasp of his attain-
ment, the knowledge of all that Divine truth
imparted to him as the heirloom of his race-

438 	LEGEND
that race to whom it has been granted to look,
with exalted countenance, on high ; which
Divine truth is symbolized by the worn .
Thus provided with the word of life, he
occupies his time in the construction of a
spiritual temple, and travels onward in the
faithful discharge of all his duties, laying
down his designs upon the trestle-board of
the future, and invoking the assistance and
direction of God .
But is his path always over flowery meads
and through pleasant groves? Is there no
hidden foe to obstruct his progress? Is all
before him clear and calm, with joyous sun-
shine and refreshing zephyrs? Alas! not so .
"Man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly up-
ward ." At every "gate of life "-as the
Orientalists have beautifully called the differ-
ent ages-he is beset by peril . Temptations
allure his youth ; misfortunes darken the path-
way of his manhood, and his old age is encum-
bered with infirmity and disease . But clothed
in the armor of virtue he may resist the
temptation ; he may cast misfortunes aside and
rise triumphantly above them ; but to the last
-the direst, the most inexorable foe of his
race-he must eventually yield, and, stricken
down by death, he sinks prostrate into the
grave, and is buried in the rubbish of his sin and
human frailty .
Here then, in Masonry, is what was called
the aphanism, concealment or disappearance
in the Ancient Mysteries . The bitter, but
necessary lesson of death has been imparted .
The living soul, with the lifeless body which
encased it, has disappeared, and can nowhere
be found . 	All is darkness-confusion-de-
spair . Divine truth-the worn-for a time is
lost, and the Master Mason may now say, in
the language of Hutchinson, "I prepare my
sepulchre . I make my grave in the pollution
of the earth . I am under the shadow of
death ."
But if the mythic symbolism ended here,
with this lesson of death, then were the
lesson incomplete . That teaching would be
vain and idle-nay more, it would be corrupt
and pernicious-which should stop short of
the conscious and innate instinct for another
existence . And hence the succeeding por-
tions of the legend are intended to convey the
sublime symbolism of a resurrection from the
grave and a new birth into a future life . The
discovery of the body, which, in the initiations
of the ancient mysteries, was called the
euresis ; and its removal, from the polluted
grave into which it had been cast, to an
honored and sacred place within the precincts
of the temple, are all profoundly and beauti-
fully symbolic of that great truth, the dis-
covery of which was the object of all the
ancient initiations, as it is almost the whole
design of Freemasonry, namely, that when
man shall have passed the gates of life and
have yielded to the inexorable fiat of death,
he shall then (not in the pictured ritual of an
earthly Lodge, but in the realities of that
eternal one, of which the former is but an
antitype) be raised, at the omnific word of
LEGEND
the Grand Master of the Universe, from time
to eternity-from the tomb of corruption to
the chambers of hope-from the darkness of
death to the celestial beams of life-and that
his disembodied spirit shall be conveyed as
near to the holy of holies of the Divine presence
as humanity can ever approach to deity .
Such I conceive to be the true interpretation
of the symbolism of the Legend of the Third
Degree .
I have said that this mythical history of the
Temple Builder was universal in all nations
and all rites, and that in no place and at no
time had it, by alteration, diminution, or
addition, acquired any essentially new or
different form : the myth has always remained
the same .
But it is not so with its interpretation .
That which I have just given, and which I
conceive to be the correct one, has been very
generally adopted by the Masons of Amer-
ica . But elsewhere, and by various writ-
ers, other interpretations have been made,
very different in their character, although
always agreeing in retaining the general idea
of a resurrection or regeneration, or a restora-
tion of something from an inferior to a higher
sphere or function .
Thus, some of the earlier continental
writers have supposed the myth to have been
a symbol of the destruction of the Order of
the Templars, looking upon its restoration to
its original wealth and dignities as being
prophetically symbolized .
In some of the high philosophical degrees
it is taught that the whole legend refers to
the sufferings and death, with the subsequent
resurrection of Christ .
Hutchinson, who has the honor of being the
earliest philosophical writer on Freemasonry
in England, supposes it to have been intended
to embody the idea of the decadence of the
Jewish religion and the substitution of the
Christian in its place and on its ruins .
Dr . Oliver thinks that it is typical of the
murder of Abel and Cain, and that it sym-
bolically refers to the universal death of our
race through Adam and its restoration to life
in the Redeemer, according to the expression
of the Apostle, "as in Adam we all died, so in
Christ we all live ."
Ragon makes Hiram a symbol of the sun
shorn of its vivifying rays and fructifying
power by the three winter months, and its
restoration to prolific heat by the season of
spring .
And, finally, Des Etangs, adopting, in part,
the interpretation of Ragon, adds to it another
which he calls the moral symbolism of the
legend, and supposes that Hiram is no other
than eternal reason, whose enemies are the
vices that deprave and destroy humanity .
To each of these interpretations it seems
to me that there are important objections,
though perhaps to some less so than to others .
As to those who seek for an astronomical
interpretation of the legend, in which the
annual changes of the sun are symbolized,
while the ingenuity with which they press

LEGISLATION
their argument cannot but be admired, it is
evident that, by such an interpretation, they
yield all that Masonry has gained of religious
development in past ages, and fall back upon
that corruption and perversion of Sabaism
from which it was the object, even of the
Spurious Freemasonry of antiquity, to rescue
its disciples .
The Templar interpretation of the myth
must at once be discarded if we would avoid
the difficulties of anachronism, unless we - deny
that the legend existed before the abolition of
the Order of Knights Templar, and such
denial would be fatal to the Antiquity of
Freemasonry .
And as to the adoption of the 'Christian
reference, Hutchinson and, after him, Oliver,
profoundly philosophical as are the Masonic
speculations of both, have, I am constrained
to believe, fallen into a great error in calling
the Master Mason's Degree a Christian in-
stitution . It is true that it embraces within
its scheme the great truths of Christianity
upon the subject of the immortality of the
soul and the resurrection of the body ; but this
was to be presumed, because Freemasonry is
truth, and Christianity is truth, and all truth
must be identical . But the origin of each is
different ; their histories are dissimilar . The
creed of Freemasonry is the primitive one of
Noah and his immediate descendants . If
Masonry were simply a Christian institution,
the Jew and the Moslem, the Brahman and
the Buddhist could not conscientiously par-
take of its illumination ; but its universality
is its boast . In its language, citizens of every
nation may converse ; at its altar men of all
religions may kneel ; to its creed, disciples of
every faith may subscribe .
But the true ancient interpretation of the
legend-the universal, Masonic one-for all
countries and all ages, undoubtedly, was that
the fate of the Temple Builder is but figurative
of the pilgrimage of man on earth, through
trials and temptations through sin and sor-
row, until his eventual tall beneath the blow of
death and his final and glorious resurrection
to another and an eternal life .
And now, in conclusion, a word of historical
criticism may not be misplaced . It is not at
all essential to the value of the symbolism that
the legend shall be proved to be historical .
Whether considered as a truthful narrative of
an event that actually transpired during the
building of the Temple, or simply as a myth
embodying the utterance of a religious senti-
ment, the symbolic lesson of life and death
and immortality is still contained in its teach-
ings, and commands our earnest attention .
Legislation . 	On the subject of that cry-
ing sin of the Order-over-legislation by
Grand Lodges-Gov . Thomas Brown, for-
merly Grand Master of Florida, has wisely
said : "Too much legislation is the vice of the
present day, as well in Masonic as in civil
government . The same thirst for change and
innovation which has prompted tyros and
demagogues to legislate upon constitutional
law, and write expositions of the common
LELAND 	439
law, has prompted uninformed and unscrupu-
lous Masons to legislate upon the landmarks
of Masonry ."
Lehrling . 	German for an Entered Ap-
prentice .
Leland, John . An eminent English an-
tiquary, the chaplain of King Henry VIII .,
who appointed him "King's Antiquary," a
title which he was the first and last to bear .
The king also directed him to search after the
antiquities of England, "and peruse the
libraries of all cathedrals, abbies, priories,
colleges, etc ., as also all places wherein records,
writings, and secrets of antiquity were de-
posited . ' 	Leland, accordingly, traveled over
England for several years, and made many
collections of manuscripts, which were after-
ward deposited in the Bodleian Library . He
was a man of great learning and industry .
He was born in London in the beginning of
the sixteenth century (the exact year is un-
certain), and died on the 18th of April 1552 .
Anthony Wood says that he was by far the
most eminent historian and antiquary ever
born in England . His connection with Free-
masonry arises from the manuscript contain-
ing the questions of King Henry VI ., which he
is said to have copied from the original . (See
Leland Manuscript .)
Leland Manuscript . There is no one of
the old Records of Freemasonry, except, per-
haps, the Charter of Cologne, that has given
rise to more controversy among the critics
than the one generally known as the "Leland
Manuscript ." It derives this name from the
statement made in its title, which is : "Cer-
tayne questyons with awnsweres to the same,
concernynge the mystery of maconrye ;
wryttene by the hande of Kynge Henry the
Sixthe of the name, and faythfullye copied by
me, Johan Leylande Antiquanus, by the
commaunde of His Highnesse ." It first ap-
peared in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1753
(p . 417), where it purports to be a reprint of
a pamphlet published five years before at
Frankfort . The title of the paper in the
Gentleman's Magazine is : "Copy of a small
pamphlet, consisting of twelve pages in 8vo,
printed in Germany in 1748, entitled 'Ein
Brief von dem beriihmten Heren Johann
Locke betreffend die Frey-Maurerein . So
auf einem Schreib-Tisch eines verstorbnen
Bruders ist gefunden worden ."' That is, "A
Letter of the famous Mr . John Locke relating
to Freemasonry . As found in the writing-
desk of a deceased brother ." Hearne copied
it in his Life of Leland (p . 67), prefacing it
with the remark that "it also appears that an
ancient manuscript of Leland's has long re-
mained in the Bodleian Library, unnoticed in
any account of our author yet published ."
Hearne speaks of it thus :
"The original is said to be inthe handwriting
of King Henry VI ., and copied by Leland by
order of His Highness (King Henry VIII .) .
If the authenticity of this ancient monument
of literature remains unquestioned, it demands
particular notice in the present publication,
on account of the singularity of the subject,

440 	LELAND
and no less from a due regard to the royal
writer, and our author, his transcriber, inde-
fatigable in every part of literature : it will
also be admitted, acknowledgment is due to
the learned Mr . Locke, who, amidst the
closest studies and the most strict attention to
human understanding, could unbend his mind
in search of this ancient treatise, which he first
brought from obscurity in the year 1696 ."
The . Manuscript purports to be a series of
questions proposed by Henry VI . and answers
given by the Masons . 	It is accompanied by
an introductory letter and a commentary
by Mr . Locke, together with a glossary of
the archaic words . 	The'best account of the
Manuscript is contained in the letter of Locke
to a nobleman, said to be the Earl of Pem-
broke, dated May 6, 1696, in which, after
stating that he had procured a copy of it from
the Bodleian Library, he adds :
"The Manuscript of which this is a copy
appears to be about one hundred and sixty
years old ; yet (as your Lordship will observe
by the title) it is itself a copy of one yet more
ancient by about one hundred years . 	For the
original is said to have been in the handwriting
of King Henry the VI . 	Where that prince
had it is an uncertainty ; but it seems to me
to be an examination (taken, perhaps, before
the King) of some one of the Brotherhood of
Masons, among whom he entered himself, as
'tis said, when he came out of his minority,
and thenceforth put a stop to a persecution
that had been raised against them ."
After its appearance in the Gentleman's
Magazine, which first introduced the knowl-
edge of it to the world, and in Huddesford's
L . of Leland, who evidently copied it from the
Magazine, it next appeared, in 1764, in the
Pocket Companion, and in 1769 in Calcott's
Candid Disquisition . 	In 1775, Hutchinson
introduced it into his Spirit of Masonry .
Dermott published it in his Ahiman Rezon,
and Preston in his Illustrations . 	Noorthouck,
in 1784, embodied it in his edition of the Con-
stitutions ; and it has since been repeatedly
published in England and America, so that the
Craft have had every opportunity of becoming
familiar with its contents . 	Translations of it
have also been given in French by Thory, in
his Acta Latomorum ; in German by Lenning,
in his Encyclopadie ; by Krause, in his Kunstur-
kunden, and also by Fessler and several other
French and German writers .
This document-so important, if true, as a
record of the condition of Freemasonry in
the beginning of the fifteenth century-has
been from an early period attacked and de-
fended with equal vehemence by those who
have denied and those who have maintained
its authenticity . 	As early as 1787, the Baron
de Chefdebien, in a discourse entitled Re-
cherches Magonniques d l'usage des Freres de
Regime primif de Narbonne, read before the
Congress of the Philalethans, attacked the
authenticity of the document . Thory also,
although acknowledging that he wished that
the Manuscript was true, presented his ob-
jections to its authenticity in a memoir read in
LELAND
1806 before the Tribunal of the Philosophic
Rite . 	His objections are eight in number,
and are to this effect : 	1 . That it was not
published in any of the early editions of the
works of Locke . 	2 . That it was printed for
the first time at Frankfort, in 1748 . 	3 . That
it was not known in England until 1753 . 	4 .
That Anderson makes no mention of it .
5 . That it is not in any of the editions of
Leland's works printed before 1772 . 	6 . That
Dr . Plot contends that Henry VI . was never
made a Mason . 	7 . That the Manuscript says
that Masonry was brought from the East by
the Venetians . 	8 . That the troubles in the
reign of Henry VI ., and his incapacity, render
it improbable that he would have occupied his
mind with the subject of Freemasonry . 	The
sixth and eighth of these objections merely
beg the question ; and the seventh is puerile,
founded on ignorance of the meaning of the
word "Venetian ." 	But the other objections
have much weight . Sloane, in his New Curi-
osities of Literature (1849, vol . ii ., p . 80),
attacks the document with the bitterness
which he usually displays wherever Free-
masonry is concerned .
Halliwell, in his Early History of Freema-
sonry in England (p . 40), has advanced the
following arguments against its authenticity :
"It is singular that the circumstances at-
tending its publication should have led no one
to suspect its authenticity . 	I was at the pains
of making a long search in the Bodleian Li-
brary last summer, in the hopes of finding the
original, but without success . 	In fact there
can be but little doubt that this celebrated
and well-known document is a forgery!
"In the first place, why should such a
document have been printed abroad? 	Was
it likely that it should have found its way to
Frankfrt, nearly half a century afterwards,
and been published without any explanation
of the source whence it was obtained? 	Again,
the orthography is most grotesque, and too
gross ever to have been penned either by
Henry VI . or Leland, or both combined . 	For
instance, we have Peter Gower, a Grecian,
explained in a note by the fabricator-for who
else could have solved it?-to be Pythagoras!
As a whole, it is but a clumsy attempt at de-
ception, and is quite a parallel to the recently
discovered one of the first Englishe Mercurie . '
Among the German opponents of the Manu-
script are Leasing, Keller, and Findel ; and
more recently, the iconoclasts of England,
who have been attacking so many of the
ancient records of the Craft, have not left this
one unspared .
On the other hand, it has ranked among its
advocates some of the most learned Masons
of England, Germany, and France, of whom
may be named Krause, Fessler, Lenning,
Reghellini, 	Preston, 	Hutchinson, 	Calcott
(these three, perhaps, without critical exam-
ination), and Oliver . 	Of these the language
of the last may be cited as a specimen of the
arguments adduced in its favor .
"This famous Manuscript," says Dr . Oliver
(Freemasons' Quart . Rev ., 1840, p . 10), "poe-

LEMANCEAU
sesses the reputation of having converted the
tearned Locke, who was initiated after care-
fully perusing and analyzing it . 	Before any
faith can be placed on this invaluable docu-
ment, it will be necessary to say a word re-
specting its authenticity . 	I admit that there
is some degree of mystery about it, and doubts
have been entertained whether it be not a
forgery . We have the strongest presumptive
proofs that it was in existence about the mid-
dle of the last century, because the utmost
publicity was given to it ; and as at that time
Freemasonry was beginning to excite a con-
siderable share of public attention, the decep-
tion, had it been such, would have been pub-
licly exposed by its opponents, who appear to
have used the lash of ridicule very freely, as
witness Hogarth's picture of Night, where the
principal figures represent some brethren,
decorated with aprons and jewels, returning
from the Lodge in a state of intoxication ; the
broad sheet of the Scald Miserables, and other
prints and publications in which Freemasonry
is burlesqued . But no attempt was ever made
to invalidate its claim to be a genuine docu-
ment ."
After enumerating the several books in
which it had been published, he resumes his
argument, as follows :
"Being thus universally diffused, had it
been a suspected document, 	its exposure
would certainly have been attempted ; par-
ticularly about the close of the last century,
when the progress of Masonry was sensibly
checked by the publication of works which
charged it with being the depository of prin-
ciples fatal equally to the peace and religion
of civil society ; and if a forgery, it would have
been unable to have endured the test of a
critical examination . 	But no such attempt
was made ; and the presumption therefore is
that the document is authentic .
"I should be inclined to pronounce, from
internal evidence only, that the `Letter and
Annotations' were written by Locke ; but
there are corroborating facts which appear
conclusive ; for this great philosopher was
actually residing at Oates, the country-seat of
Sir Francis Masham at the time when the
paper is dated ; and shortly afterwards he
went up to town, where he was initiated into
Masonry . 	These facts are fully proved by
Locke's Letters to Mr . Molyneux, dated
March 30 and July 2, 1696 . 	For these reasons
I entertain no doubt of the genuineness and
authenticity of this valuable Manuscript ."
If my own opinion is worth giving on this
subject, I should say with much reluctance,
and against my own wishes, that there is
neither internal nor external evidence of the
authenticity of this document to make it a
sufficient foundation for historical evidence .
[R . F . Gould (Hilt . of F . M ., i ., 489) styles the
document "an impudent forgery ."-E . L . H .]
Lemanceau . A zealous French Mason,
and the possessor of a fine collection of degrees,
the nomenclature of which is preserved by
Thory in his Acta Latomorum . 	The most
important are referred to in the present work .
LENOIR 	441
Lemlerre, A . M . 	Born in 1733, died in
1793 . 	A writer of merit who belonged to the
"Neuf Sceurs," and was present at the re-
ception of Voltaire .
Length of the Lodge . 	See Extent of the
Lodge .
Lenning, C . 	The assumed name of a
learned German Mason, who resided at Paris
in 1817, where Krause speaks of him as an
estimable man and well-informed Freemason .
He was the first projector of the Encyclopddie
der Freimaurerei, which Findel justly calls
"one of the most learned and remarkable
works in Masonic literature ." 	The manu-
script coming into the possession of the Leip-
sic bookseller Brockhaus, he engaged Fried-
rich Mossdori to edit it . 	He added so much
to the original, revising and amplifying all the
most important articles and adding many new
ones, that Kloss catalogues it in his Bib-
liographie as the work of Mossdorf . 	The
Encyclopadie is in three volumes, of which
the first was published in 1822, the second in
1824, and the third in 1828 . 	A second edi-
tion, under the title of Handbuch der Frei-
maurerei, was published under the editorship
of Schletter and Zille . A third edition in two
volumes was published in 1900 (first vol .)
and 1901 (second vol .) .
Lenoir, Alexandre . 	A celebrated arche-
ologist, who was born at Paris in 1761 . 	Hav-
ing studied at the Mazarin College, he en-
tered the studio of Doyeu, and successfully
cultivated painting . 	In 1790, the National
Assembly having decreed that the treasures
of art in the suppressed churches and con-
vents should be collected 	at the Petits-
Augustins, he was appointed the Conserv-
ator of the depot, which was subsequently
called the Museum, of which he was then made
the Director . 	He there collected more than
five hundred monuments rescued from de-
struction, and classified them with great care .
On the conversion of the garden of Moasseaux
into a Museum of Monuments, he was ap-
pointed one of the administrators, and subse-
quently the administrator of the monuments
of the Church of St . Denis . 	In all these
appointments, Lenoir exhibited his taste and
judgment as an archeologist . 	He was a
member of the Society of Antiquaries of
France, to whose Transactions he contributed
several memoirs .
The Metropolitan Chapter of France had,
from the year 1777, annually held philo-
sophical conventions, at which lectures on
Masonic subjects were delivered by such men
as Court de Gebelin . 	In 1789 these con-
ventions were discontinued in consequence of
the political troubles of the times, but they
were renewed in 1812 by M . Lenoir, who
delivered before the Chapter a course of
eight lectures on the relations which exist
between the ancient mysteries of the Egyp-
tians and the Greeks and those of Free-
masonry . In 1814, he published the sub-
stance of these lectures in a work entitled
La Franche-Maconnerie rendue a sa veritable
origin, ou l'Aniiquiti de la Franche-Magon-

442 	LEONTICA
aerie prouvle~par l'Explicatwn des Myafkres
Anciens et Modernes (Paris, 4to, p . 304) .
The theory of the author being that the mys-
teries of Freemasonry are only a repetition of
those of antiquity, he attempts to support it
by investigations into the ancient initiations
that are marked with profound learning, al-
though the work was severely criticised in the
Journal de Debats . 	He had previously pub-
lished, in 1809, a work in three volumes, en-
titled Nouvelle Explication des Hieroglyphes
ou Anciens Allegories sacrEes des Egiptiennes .
He died at Paris, June 12, 1839 .
Leontica . Ancient sacrificial festivals in
honor of the sun ; the officiating priests being
termed Leontes .
Leo XH ., Pope . 	Born in 1760, died in
1829 . On the 13th of March, 1825, he issued
the well-remembered bull, beginning "Quo
graviora mala " against the Freemasons .
Lepage . 	One of those French Masons
who in the latter part of the last century
occupied themselves in the accumulation of
cahiers or rituals of Masonic degrees . Most
of the degrees in his collection, which is said
to have been a valuable one, are referred to
by Thory in the nomenclature contained in
his Acta Latomorum .
Lerouge, Andre Joseph Etienne . A
man of letters and zealous Mason of Paris,
born at Commercy, April 25, 1766 . He made
a large and valuable collection of manuscript
and printed degrees . He died in 1834, and on
the 7th of . January, 1835, his collection was
sold at p ublic auction . Thory has made use
of it in his Nomenclature des Grades . Lerouge
was the author of several didactic writings on
Masonic subjects, all of which, however, have
had but an ephemeral existence . He was one
of the editors of the French Masonic journal
Hermes, published in 1819, and of the Me-
langes de Philosophic, d'Histoire et de Litera-
ture Maconnique . 	He was a man of much
learning, and is said to have supplied several
of his Masonic contemporaries with assistance
in the preparation of their works .
Lesser Lights . In the lecture of the First
Degree we are told that a Lodge has three
symbolic lesser li g hts ; one of these is in the
East, one in the West, and one in the South .
There is no light in the North, because King
Solomon's Temple, of which every Lodge is a
re p resentation, was placed so far north of the
ecliptic that the sun and moon, at their
meridian height, could dart no ra y s into the
northern part thereof . The North we there-
fore Masonically call a place of darkness .
This symbolic use of the three lesser lights
is very old, being found in the earliest lectures
of the last century .
The three lights, like the three princi p al
officers and the three principal supports, refer,
undoubtedly, to the three stations of the sun
-its rising in the East, its meridian in the
South, and its setting in the West ; and thus
the symbolism of the Lodge, as typical of the
world, continues to be p reserved .
The use of lights in all religious ceremonies
is an ancient custom . There was a seven-
LEVEL
branched candlestick in the tabernacle, and
in the Temple "were the golden candlesticks,
five on the right hand and five on the left ."
They were always typical of moral, spiritual,
or intellectual light .
The custom prevalent in some localities,
of placing the burning tapers, or three sym-
bolic lesser lights, East, West, and South, near
the altar, is sometimes changed so that these
res p ective lights are burning on or beside the
pedestals of the Master and his two Wardens
at their several stations . In the old Teutonic
mythology, and in accordance with Medieval
court usage, flaming lights or fires burned
before each column, similarly situated, on
which rested the image of Odin, Thor, and
Frey . These columns are further repre-
sented as Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty,
sustaining the "Starry-decked Heaven," roof
or ceiling colored blue, with stars .
Lessing, Gottfried Ephraim . 	A learned
litterateur of Germany, who was born at
Kaumitz, in the Neiderlausetz, January 22,
1729, and died on the 15th of February, 1781,
at Woefenbutal, where he was librarian to the
Duke of Brunswick . Leasing was initiated in
a Lodge at Hamburg, and took great interest
in the Institution . His theory, that it sprang
out of a secret association of Templars which
had long existed in London, and was modified
in form by Sir Christopher Wren, has long
been rejected, if it was ever admitted by any •
but in his two works Ernst and Falk and
Nathan der Weise, he has given profound and
comprehensive views on the genius and spirit
of Freemasonry . Leasing was the most
eminent litterateur of his age, and has been
styled "the man who was the forerunner of
the p hilosophers, and whose criticisms sup-
p lied the place of poetry ." . (See Ernest and
Falk .)
Lessons . 	The passages of Scripture re-
cited by the Prelate in the ceremony of in-
ducting a candidate into the Masonic Order
of Knights Templar . It is an ecclesiastical
term, and is used by the Templars because
these passages are intended to instruct the
candidate in reference to the incidents of our
Savior's life which are referred to in the
ritual .
Letter of Application . 	More properly
called a Petition, which see .
Letters Patent . 	See Patents .
Lettuce . 	A sacred plant used in the mys-
teries of Adonis, and therefore the analogue
of the Acacia in the mysteries of Freemasonry .
Leueht . 	A Masonic charlatan of the
eighteenth century, better known by his
assumed name of Johnson, which see .
Level . 	In Freemasonry, the level is a sym-
bol of equalit y ; not of that social equalit
which would destroy all distinctions of ra
and position, and beget confusion, insub-
ordination, and anarchy ; but of that fraternal
equality which, recognizing the fatherhood
of God, admits as a necessary corollary the
brotherhood of man . It, therefore, teaches
us that in the sight of the Great Architect of
the Universe, his creatures, who are at an im-

LEVI
measurable distance from him, move upon the
same plane ; as the far-moving stars, which
though millions of miles apart, yet seem to
shine upon the same canopy of the sky . In
this view the level teaches us that all men are
equal, subject to the same infirmities, hasten-
ing to the same goal, and preparing to be
judged by the same immutable law .
The level is deemed, like the square and the
plumb, of so much importance as a symbol,
that it is repeated in many different relations .
First, it is one of the jewels of the Lodge ; in
the English system a movable in the Ameri-
can an immovable, one . This leads to its
being adopted as the proper official ensign
of the Senior Warden, because the Craft when
at labor, at which time he presides over them
are on a common level of subordination . And
then it is one of the working-tools of a Fellow-
Craft, still retaining its symbolism of equality .
Levi, Ellphas . The pseudonym of Louis
Alphonse Constance, a prolific writer on
Magical Masonry, or of works in which he
seeks to connect the symbols of Masonry with
the dogmas of the High Magic . His principal
works, which abound in dreamy speculations,
are Dogme et Rituel de la Haute Magie, Paris,
1860 ; Histoire de la Magie, same place and
year ; and Le Clef des Grand Mysteres, pub-
lished a year afterward .
Levit, Der . The Levite was the fourth
grade of the Order of the Knights of the True
Light .
Levite, Knight . The Knight Levite was
the fourth section of the Seventh Degree of
the Rite of Clerks of Strict Observance .
Levite of the External Guard . The
lowest of the nine Orders of the Priesthood,
or highest of the Masonic degrees in the Order
of the Temple as modified by Fabre-Palaprat .
It was equivalent to Kadosh .
Levites . Those descendants of Levi who
were employed in the lowest ministerial duties
of the Temple, and were thus subordinate to
the priests, who were the lineal descendants
of Aaron . They are represented, in some of
the high degrees .
Levite, Sacrificer . A degree in the col-
lection of the Mother Lodge of the Philo-
sophic Scottish Rite .
Levitikon . There is a spurious Gospel of
St . John, supposed to have been forged in
the fifteenth century, which contradicts the
genuine Gospel in many particulars . It con-
tains an introduction and a commentary,
said to have been written by Nicephorus, a
Greek monk of Athens . This commentary
is called the "Levitikon ." Out of this Gospel
and its commentary, Fabre-Palaprat, about
the year 1814, composed a liturgy for the sect
of Johannites, which he had established and
attached to the Order of the Temple at Paris .
Levy . 	A collection of men raised for a
particular purpose . The lectures tell us that
the timbers for building the Temple at Je-
rusalem were felled in the forests of Lebanon,
where a levy of thirty thousand men of Je-
rusalem were employed by monthly courses
of ten thousand . Adoniram was placed over
LEWIS 	443
this levy . The facts are derived from the
statement in 1 Kings v . 13, 14 : "And King
Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel ; and the
levy was thirty thousand men . And he sent
them to Lebanon ten thousand a month by
courses ; a month they were in Lebanon and
two months at home : and Adoniram was
over the levy ." These wood-cutters were not
Tyrians, but all Israelites .
Lewis . 	1 . An instrument in Operative
Masonry . It is an iron cramp which is in-
serted in a cavity prepared for that purpose
in any large stone, so as to give attachment
to a pulley and hook whereby the stone may
be conveniently raised to any height and
deposited in its proper position . It is well
described by Mr . Gibson, in the British
Archxologia (vol . x ., p . 127) ; but he is in error
in attributing its invention to a French archi-
tect in the time of Louis XIV ., and its name
to that monarch. The contrivance was
known to the Romans, and several taken from
old ruins are now in the Vatican . In the
ruins of Whitby Abbey, in England, which
was founded by Oswy, King of Northumber-
land, in 658, large stones were discovered,
with the necessary excavation for the inser-
tion of a lewis . The word is most probably
derived from the old French levis, any con-
trivance for lifting . The modern French call
the instrument a louve .
2 . In the English system, the lewis is found
on the tracing-board of the Entered Appren-
tice, where it is used as a symbol of strength,
because, by its assistance, the Operative Ma-
son is enabled to lift the heaviest stones with
a comparatively trifling exertion of physical
power . It has not been adopted as a symbol
by the American Masons, except in Pennsyl-
vania, where, of course, it receives the English
interpretation .
3 . The son of a Mason is, in England,
called a lewis, because it is his duty to sup-
port the sinking powers and aid the failing
strength of his father ; or, as Oliver has ex-
pressed it, "to bear the burden and heat of
the day, that his parents may rest in their old
age ; thus rendering the evening of their lives
peaceful and happy ." In the rituals of the
middle of the last century he was called a
buff ton . 	From this the French derived their
word lufton, which they apply in the same way .
They also employ the word louveteau, and call
the daughter of a Mason louvetine . Louveteau
is probably derived directly from the louve,
the French name of the implement ; but it is a
singular coincidence that louveteau also means
a young wolf, and that in the Egyptian mys-
teries of Isis the candidate was made to wear
the mask of a wolf's head . Hence, a wolf and
a candidate in these mysteries were often used
as synonymous terms . Macrobius, in his
Saturnalia, says, in reference to this custom,
that the ancients perceived a relationship be-
tween the sun, the great symbol in these
mysteries, and a wolf, which the candidate
represented at his initiation . For, he remarks,
as the flocks of sheep and cattle fly and dis-
perse at the sight of the wolf, so the flocks of

444 	LEXINGTON
stars disappear at the approach of the sun's
light . The learned reader will also recollect
that in the Greek language lukos signifies both
the sun and a wolf . Hence some etymologists
have sought to derive louveteau, the son of a
Mason, from louveteau, a young wolf . But
the more direct derivation from louve, the
operative instrument is preferable .
In Browne's Master Key, which is sup-
posed to represent the Prestonian lecture, we
find the following definition :
"What do we call the son of a Freemason?
"A lewis .
"What does that denote?
"Strength .
"How is a lewis depicted in a Mason's
Lodge?
"As a cramp of metal, by which, when fixed
into a stone, great and ponderous weights are
raised to a certain height and fixed upon their
proper basis, without which Operative Masons
could not so conveniently do .
"What is the duty of a lewis, the son of a
Mason, to his aged parents?
"To bear the heavy burden in the heat of
the day and help them in time of need, which,
by reason of their great age, they ought to be
exempted from, so as to render the close of
their days happy and comfortable .
"His privilege for so doing?
"To be made a Mason before any other
person, however dignified by birth, rank, or
riches, unless he, through complaisance, waives
this privilege ."
[The term occurs in this sense in the Con-
stitutions of 1738 at the end of the Deputy
Grand Master's song-in allusion to the ex-
pected birth of George III., son of Frederick,
Prince of Wales :
"May a Lewis be born, whom the World
shall admire, Serene as his Mother, August
as his Sire ."
It is sometimes stated that a Lewis may be
initiated before he has reached the age of
twenty-one ; but this is not so under the Eng-
lish Constitution, by which a dispensation is
required in all cases of initiation under age,
as was distinctly stated at the meeting of the
Grand Lodge of England held on December
2, 1874 . The Scotch Constitution, however,
does allow a Lewis to be entered at eighteen
years of age . (Rule 180 .)
No such right is recognized in America,
where the symbolism of the Lewis is unknown,
though it has been suggested, not without
some probability, that the initiation of
Washington when he was only twenty years
and eight months old, may be explained by
a reference to this supposed privilege of
Lewis .-E . L . H .]
Lexington, Congress of . 	This Congress
was convoked in 1853, at Lexington, Ken-
tucky, for the purpose of attempting to form
a General Grand Lodge .* A plan of con-
stitution was proposed, but a sufficient num-
ber of Grand Lodges did not accede to the
proposition to give it efficacy .
* See General Grand Lodge .
LIBERAL
Libanus . 	The Latin name of Lebanon,
which see .
Libation . Among the Greeks and Romans
the libation was a religious ceremony, consist-
ing of the pouring of wine or other liquid upon
the ground, or, in a sacrifice, upon the head
of the victim after it had been first tasted by
the priest and by those who stood next to him .
The libations were usually of unmixed wine,
but were sometimes of . mingled wine and
water . Libations are used in some of the
chivalric and the high degrees of Masonry .
Libavius, Andreas . 	A learned German
physician, who was born at Halle, in Saxony
and died at Coburg, where he was rector ol
the Gymnasium in 1616 . He was a vehement
opponent of Paracelsus and of the Rosi-
crucians . In 1613 he published at Frankfort
his Syntagma selectorum alchimia arcanorum,
in two folio volumes, and two years after, an
Appendix, in which he attacks the Society of
the Rosicrucians and analyzes the Confessio
of Valentine Andrea . De Quincey has used
the works of Libavius in his article on Secret
Societies .
Liber . 	Liberty . 	Of which the eagle, in
the Rose Croix Degree, is symbolical . Liberty
of thought, speech, and action, within the
bounds of civil, political, and conscientious
law, without license . A book, and hence the
word library, or collection of books . It was
also one of the names of the god Bacchus .
The freedom which knowledge confers . Liber,
the bark, or inner rind of a tree, on which
books were originally written ; hence, leaves
of a book and leaves of a tree ; or, similarly in
Latin, folio of a book, the foliage of a tree .
Thus, the "tree of knowledge" becomes the
"book of wisdom" ; the "tree of life" be-
comes the "book of life ." (See Lakak Deror
Pessah and Libertas .) 	The Bridge mentioned
in the Sixteenth Degree, Scottish Rite, has
the initials of Liberty of Passage over its
arches .
Liberal Arts and Sciences . 	We are in-
debted to the Scholastic philosophers of the
Middle Ages for the nomenclature by which
they distinguished the seven sciences then
best known to them . With the metaphorical
spirit of the age in which they lived, they called
the two classes into which they divided them
the trivium, or meeting of three roads, and the
quadrivium, or meeting of four roads ; calling
grammar, logic, and rhetoric the trivium, and
arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy
the quadrivium . These they styled the seven
liberal arts and sciences, to separate them from
the mechanical arts which were practised by
the handicraftsmen . The liberal man, liber-
alis homo, meant, in the Middle Ages, the man

LIBERTAS
who was his own master-free, independent,
and often a nobleman .
Mosheim, speaking of the state of litera-
ture in the eleventh century, uses the follow-
ing language : "The seven liberal arts ; as they
were now styled, were taught in the greatest
part of the schools that were erected in this
century for the education of youth . The first
stage of these sciences was grammar, which
was followed successively b y rhetoric and
logic . When the disciple, having learned
these branches, which were generally known
by the name of trivium, extended his ambition
further, and was desirous of new improve-
ment in the sciences, he was conducted slowly
through the quadrivium (arithmetic, music,
geometry, and astronomy) to the very summit
of literary fame ."
The Freemasons of the Middle Ages, al-
ways anxious to elevate their profession above
the position of a mere operative art, readily
assumed these liberal arts and sciences as a
part of their course of knowledge, thus seeking
to assimilate themselves rather to the schol-
ars who were above them than to the work-
men who were below them .* Hence in all the
Old Constitutions we find these liberal arts
and sciences introduced at the beginning as
forming an essential part of the body of Ma-
sonry . Thus, in the Lansdowne MS ., whose
date is about 1560 (and it may be taken as a
fair specimen of all the others, these sciences
are thus referred to :
"Wee minde to shew you the charge that
belongs to every trew Mason to keep, for in
good and (faith if you take good heed it is
well worthy to be kept for A worthy Craft and
curious science,-Sirs, there be Seaven Lib-
erall Sciencies of the which the Noble Craft
of Masonry is one ." And then the writer
proceeds to define them in the order which
they still retain . It is noteworth y , however,
that that order must have been changed ; for
in what is probably the earliest of the manu-
scri p ts-the Regius MS .-geometry appears
as the last, instead of the fifth of the sciences,
and arithmetic as the sixth . (Lines 557-563 .)
It is not therefore surprising that, on the
revival of Masonry in 1717, these seven lib-
eral arts and sciences were made a part of the
system of instruction . At first, of course,
they were placed in the Entered Apprentice's
Degree, that being the most important degree
of the period, and they were made to refer to
the seven Masons who com p osed a Lodge .
Afterward, on the more methodical division
of the degrees, they were transferred to the
Fellow-Craft, because that was the degree
symbolic of science, and were made to refer
to seven of the steps of the winding stairs,
that bein g itself, when pro p erly interpreted, a
symbol of the progress of knowledge . And
apart a se p arate place where the Seven Liberal
Arts and Sciences were taught . 	[E. E . C .]
LIBRARY 	445
word in the Red Cross Degree . It refers to
the "liberty of passage" gained by the re-
turning Jews over their opponents at the river
Euphrates, as described in the Scottish Rite
degree of Knight of the East, where the old
French rituals have "liberty du passer ."
Liberte, Ordre de la . 	(Order of Liberty .)
A French androgyn Order existing in Paris in
1740, and the precursor of "La Magonnerie
d'Adoption ." (Thory, Acta Let ., i ., 320 .)
Libertine . 	The Charges of 1722 com-
mence by saying that "a Mason is obliged by
his tenure to obey the moral law- and if he
rightly understands the art, he will never be a
stupid Atheist, nor an irreligious libertine ."
(Constitutions, 1723, p . 50 .) The word "lib-
ertine" there used conveyed a meaning dif-
ferent from that which it now bears . In the
present usage of language it signifies a profli-
gate and licentious person, but originally it
meant a freethinker, or Deist . Derived from
the Latin "libertinus," a man that was once a
bondsman but who has been made free, it was
metaphorically used to designate one who had
been released, or who had released himself
from the bonds of religious belief, and become
in matters of faith a doubter or denier . Hence
"a stupid Atheist" denoted, to use the lan-
guage of the Psalmist, "the fool who has said
in his heart there is no God," while an "irre-
ligious libertine" designated the man who,
with a degree less of unbelief denies the dis-
tinctive doctrines of revealed religion . And
this meaning of the expression connects itself
very appropriately with the succeeding para-
graph of the Charge . "But though in ancient
times, Masons were charged in every country
to be of the religion of that country or nation,
whatever it was, yet 'tis now thought more ex-
pedient only to oblige them to that religion in
which all men agree, leaving their particular
opinions to themselves ."
The expression "irreligious libertine," al-
luding, as it does, to a scoffer at religious
truths, is eminently suggestive of the religious
character of our Institution, which, founded as
it is on the great doctrines of religion, cannot
be properly appreciated by anyone who
doubts or denies their truth .
" Liberty, Equality, Fraternity ." 	The
motto of the French Freemasons .
Liberty of Passage . A significant phrase
in the high degrees . (See Libertas .) 	The
French rituals designate it by the letters
L . - . D .' . P .'% as the initials of liberte de passer,
or liberty of passage . But Bro . Pike pro-
poses to interpret these letters as liberte de pen-
ser, liberty of thought ; the prerogative of a
freeman and a Freemason .
Library . 	It is the duty as well as the in-
terest of Lodges to facilitate the efforts of the
members in the acquisition of Masonic knowl-
edge, and no method is more appropriate than
the formation of Masonic libraries . The es-
tablishment of a Grand Lodge libr ary is of
course not objectionable, but it is of far less
value and importance than a Lodge library .
The original outlay of a few dollars in the be-
ginning for its .establishment, and of a few
there they still remain .
Libertas . (Latin) Liberty . A significant
* The claim has been made that Charle-
magne, in his castle at Aix-la-Chapelle, set

446 	LIBYAN
more annually for its maintenance and in-
crease, would secure to every Lodge in the
land a rich treasury of Masonic reading for
the information and improvement of its mem-
bers . The very fact that Masonic books were
within their reach, showing themselves on the
well-filled shelves at every meeting, and ready
at their hands for the mere asking or the
trouble of taking them down, would induce
many brethren to read who never yet have
read a page or even a line upon the subject of
Masonic history and science .
Considering the immense number of books
that have been published on the subject of
Speculative Masonry, many of which would
be rendered accessible to every one by the es-
tablishment of Lodge libraries, the Mason who
would then be ignorant of the true genius of
his art would be worthy of all shame and re-
proach .
As thoughtful municipalities place public
fountains in their parks and at the corners of
streets, that the famished wayfarer may allay
his thirst and receive physical refreshment so
should Masonic Lodges place such intellec-
tual fountains in reach of their members, that
they might enjoy mental refreshment . Such
fountains are libraries ; and the Lodge which
spends fifty dollars, more or less, upon a ban-
quet, and yet does without a library, commits
a grave Masonic offense ; for it refuses, or at
least neglects, to diffuse that light among its
children which its obligation requires it to do .
Of two Lodges-the one without and the
other with a library-the difference is this,
that the one will have more ignorance in it
than the other . If a Lodge takes delight in an
ignorant membership, let it forego a library .
If it thinks there is honor and reputation and
pleasure in having its members well informed,
it will give them means of instruction .
Libyan or Lybic Chain . 	The eighty-
fifth grade of the Rite of Memphis ; old style .
Licht, Hitter von Wahren . 	Knight of
the True Light, presumed to have been
founded in Austria in 1780, by Hans Hein-
rich Freiherr von ticker and Eckhoffen . It
consisted of five grades .
Lichtseher, 	Oder 	Erleuchtete . 	(The
Enlightened .) A mystical sect established at
Schlettstadt by Kilper Martin Steinbach, in
the sixteenth century . Mentioned in the
Handbuch, in 1566, by Pastor Reinhard Lutz .
It delved in Scriptural interpretation .
Lieutenant Grand Commander . 	The
title of the second and third officers of a Grand
Consistory in the Ancient and Accepted Scot-
* The three most important Masonic libraries
inAmerica are : The Grand Lodge Libraryof Iowa,
at Cedar Rapids, it having a separate building
devoted entirely to its uses, and containing a large
number of books and collections, many of which
are rare . The Grand Lodges of both Pennsyl-
vania and Massachusetts have been ardent col-
lectors of Masonic literature . The Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts has lately acquired by gift
of the late Samuel R . Lawrence his own li-
brary and that of Enoch T . Carson, which he had
purchased . 	[E . E. C .)
LIGHT
tish Rite, and the second officer in a Supreme
Council .
Life . 	The three stages of human life are
said in the lectures to be symbolized by the
three degrees of Ancient Craft Masonry, and
the doctrine is illustrated in the Third Degree
by the emblem of the Steps on the Master's
Carpet, which see .
Life, Eternal . 	See Eternal Life .
Life Member . 	It is the custom in some
Lodges to permit a member to become a life
member by paying dues for some number of
years (21 to 25) determined by the By-Laws of
the Lodge or the immediate payment of a sum
of money, after which he is released from any
subsequent payment of quarterly or yearly
dues . 	Such a system is of advantage in a
pecuniary sense to the Lodge, if the money
paid for life membership is invested in profit-
able stock, because the interest continues to
accrue to the Lodge even after the death of a
member . A Lodge consisting entirely of life
members would be a Lodge the number of
whose members might increase, but could
never decrease . Life members are subject to
all the discipline of the Lodge, such as sus-
pension or expulsion, just as the other mem-
bers . [Such Life Membership is, however, not
recognized by the Grand Lodge of England,
which restricts the privileges of the Craft to
those who continue to be subscribing members
of some Lodge . 	(Report of G . L . of England
for June, 1873 .)-E . L . H .)
Light . 	Light is an important word in the
Masonic system . It conveys a far more recon-
dite meaning than it is believed to possess by
the generality of readers . It is in fact the first
of all the symbols presented to the neophyte,
and continues to be presented to him in vari-
ous modifications throughout all his future
progress in his Masonic career . It does not
simply mean, as might be supposed, truth or
wisdom, but it contains within itself a far more
abstruse allusion to the very essence of Specu-
lative Masonry, and embraces within its ca-
pacious signification all the other symbols
of the Order . Freemasons are emphatically
called the "sons of light," because they are,
or at least are entitled to be, in possession of
the true meaning of the symbol ; while the
profane or uninitiated who have not received
this knowledge are, by a parity of expression,
said to be in darkness .
The connection of material light with this
emblematic and mental illumination, was
prominently exhibited in all the ancient sys-
tems of religion and esoteric mysteries .
Among the Egyptians, the hare was the
heiroglyphic of eyes that are open, because
that animal was supposed to have his eyes
always open . The priests afterward adopted
the hare as the symbol of the moral illumina-
tion revealed to the neophytes in the con-
templation of the Divine truth, and hence,
according to Champollion, it was also the sym-
bol of Osiris, their principal divinity, and the
chief object of their mystic rites-thus show-
ing the intimate connection that they main-
tained in their symbolic language between the

LIGHT
process of initiation and the contemplation of
divinity . On this subject a remarkable coin-
cidence has been pointed out by M . Portal
(Symb . desEgypt, 69), in the Hebrew language .
There the word for "hare" is arnebet, which
seems to be compounded of our "light," and
nabat, "to see " ; so that the word which among
the Egyptians was used to designate an initia-
tion, among the Hebrews meant to see the
light .
If we proceed to an examination of the other
systems of religion which were practised by
the nations of antiquity, we shall find that
light always constituted a principal object of
adoration, as the primordial source of knowl-
edge and goodness, and that darkness was
with them synonymous with ignorance and
evil . Dr . Beard (Encyc . Bib . Lit .) attributes
this view of the Divine origin of light among
the Eastern nations, to the fact that "light
in the East has a clearness and brilliancy, is
accompanied by an intensity of heat, and
is followed in its influence by a largeness of
good, of which the inhabitants of less genial
climates have no conception . Light easily
and naturally became, in consequence, with
Orientals, a representative of the highest
human good . All the more joyous emotions
of the mind, all the pleasing sensations of the
frame, all the happy hours of domestic inter-
course, were described under imagery derived
from light . The transition was natural-
from earthly to heavenly, from corporeal to
spiritual things ; and so light came to typify
true religion and the felicity which it imparts .
But as light not only came from God, but also
makes man's way clear before him, so it was
employed to signify moral truth, and pre-
eminently that divine system of truth which is
set forth in the Bible, from its earliest gleam-
ings onward to the perfect day of the Great
Sun of Righteousness ."
As light was thus adored as the source of
goodness, darkness, which is the negation of
light, was abhorred as the cause of evil, and
hence arose that doctrine which prevailed
among the ancients, that there were two an-
tagonistic principles continually contending
for the government of the world .
"Light," says Duncan (Relig . of Prof . Ant .,
187), "is a source of positive happiness : with-
out it man could barely exist . And since all
religious opinion is based on the ideas of
pleasure and pain, and the corresponding
sensations of hope and fear, it is not to be won-
dered if the heathen reverenced light . Dark-
ness, on the contrary, by replunging nature,
as it were, into a state of nothingness, and de-
priving man of the pleasurable emotions con-
veyed through the organ of sight, was ever
held in abhorrence, as a source of misery and
fear . The two opposite conditions in which
man thus found himself placed, occasioned
by the enjoyment or the banishment of light,
induced him to imagine the existence of two
antagonistic principles in nature, to whose
dominion he was alternately subjected ."
Such was the dogma of Zoroaster, the great
Persian philosopher, who, under the names of
LIGURE 	447
Ormuzd and Ahriman, symbolized these two
principles of light and darkness .
Such was also the doctrine, though some-
what modified, of Manes, the founder of the
sect of Manichees, who describes God the
Father as ruling over the kingdom of light
and contending with the powers of darkness .
Pythagoras also maintained this doctrine
of two antagonistic principles . He called the
one, unity, light, the right hand, equality, sta-
bility, and a straight line ; the other he named
binary, darkness, the left hand inequality,
instability, and a curved line . b f the colors,
he attributed white to the good principle, and
black to the evil one .
The Jewish Kabbalists believed that, before
the creation of the world, all space was filled
with the Infinite Intellectual Light, which
afterward withdrew itself to an equal dis-
tance from a central point in space, and after-
ward by its emanation produced future worlds .
The first emanation of this surrounding light
into the abyss of darkness produced what
they called the "Adam Kadmon," the first
man, or the first production of the Divine
energy .
In the Bhagvat Geeta (one of the religious
books of the Brahmans), it is said : "Light and
darkness are esteemed the world's eternal
ways ; he who walketh in the former path re-
turneth not-that is, he goeth immediately to
bliss ; whilst he who walketh in the latter com-
eth back again upon the earth ."
In fact, m all the ancient systems, this rev-
erence for light, as an emblematic representa-
tion of the Eternal Principle of Good, is pre-
dominant . In the mysteries, the candidate
passed, during his initiation, through scenes
of utter darkness, and at length terminated
his trials by an admission to the splendidly
illuminated sacellum, where he was said to
have attained pure and perfect light, and
where he received the necessary instructions
which were to invest him with that knowledge
of the Divine truth which had been the object
of all his labors .
Lights, Fixed . According to the old rit-
uals of the last century every Lodge room was
furnished, or supposed to be furnished, with
three windows, situated in the East, West, and
South . They were called the Fixed Lights,
and their uses were said to be "to light the
men to, at, and from their work ."
Lights, Greater . 	The Bible, 	and the
Square and Compasses, which see . In the
Persian initiations, the Archimagus informed
the candidate, at the moment of illumination,
that the Divine Lights were displayed before
him .
Light, To Bring to . A technical expres-
sion in Masonry meaning to initiate ; as
"He was brought to light in such a Lodge,' ;
that is, he was initiated in it .
Ligure . 	=75 . The first stone in the third
row of the high priest's breastplate . Com-
mentators have been divided in opinion as to
the nature of this stone ; but it is now sup-
posed by the best authorities to have been the
rubellite, which is a red variety of the tourma-

448 	LILTS
line . 	The ligure in the breastplate was re-
f erred to the tribe of Dan .
Lilts or Lilith . 	In the popular belief of
the Hebrews, a female specter, in elegant
attire who secretly destroys children . The
fabled wife of Adam, before he married Eve,
by whom he begat devils .
Lily . The plant so frequently mentioned
in the Old Testament under the name of lily,
as an emblem of purity and peace, was the lotus
lily of Egypt and India . It occupied a con-
spicuous place among the ornaments of the
Temple furniture . The brim of the molten
sea was wrought with flowers of the lotus ; the
chapiters on the tops of the pillars at the
porch, and the tops of the pillars themselves,
were adorned with the same plant . Sir Rob-
ert Ker Porter, describing a piece of sculpture
which he found at Persepolis, says, "Almost
every one in this procession holds in his hand
a figure like the lotus . This flower was full
of meaning among the ancients, and occurs all
over the East . Egypt, Persia, Palestine, and
India present it everywhere over their archi-
tecture, in the hands and on the heads of their
sculptured figures, whether in statue or in
bas-relief . We also find it in the sacred vest-
ments and architecture of the tabernacle and
Temple of the Israelites . The lily which is
mentioned by our Savior, as an image of
peculiar beauty and glory, when comparing
the works of nature with the decorations of
art, was a different flower ; probably a species
of lilium . 	This is also represented in all pic-
tures of the salutation of Gabriel to the Virgin
Mary ; and, in fact, has been held in mysteri-
ous veneration by people of all nations and
times . 	`It is the symbol of divinity, of purity,
and abundance, and of a love most complete
in perfection, charity, and benediction ; as in
Holy Scripture, that mirror of purity, Susanna
is defined Susa, which signified the lily flower,
the chief city of the Persians, bearing that
name for excellency . Hence, the lily's three
leaves in the arms of France meaneth Piety,
Justice, and Charity .' So far, the general im-
pression of a peculiar regard to this beautiful
and fragrant flower ; but the early Persians
attached to it a peculiar sanctity ." We must
not, however, forget the difference between
the lotus of the Old Testament and the lily
of the New . The former is a Masonic plant ;
the latter is scarcely referred to . Never-
theless, through the ignorance of the early
translators as to sacred plants, the lotus is
constantly used for the lily ; and hence the
same error has crept into the Masonic rituals .
(See Lotus .)
Lily-of-the-Valley . A side degree in the
Templar system of France .
Lily Work . 	The lily work which is de-
scribed as a part of the ornamentation of the
two pillars in the porch of Solomon's Temple
is said to be, from the whiteness of the plant,
symbolic of purity and peace . Properly, it is
lotus work . 	(See Lily, Lotus, and Pillars of
the Porch .)
Limbs . 	See Quali~ cations, Physical .
Lindner, Friederich Wilhelm . A pro-
LITERATURE
fessor of philosophy in Leipsic, who published
in 1818-19 an attack on Freemasonry under
the title of Mac Benac ; Er lebet im Sohne ; oder
das Positive der Freimaurerei . 	This work con-
tains some good ideas, although taken from an
adverse point of view ; but, as Lenning has
observed, these bear little fruit because of the
fanatical spirit of knight errantry with which
he attacks the Institution .
Line . 	One of the working-tools of a Past
Master, and presented to the Master of a
Lodge at his installation . (See Plumb Line .)
Linear Triad . 	Oliver says that the Linear
Triad is a figure which appears in some old
Royal Arch floor-cloths . It bore a reference
to the sojourners, who represented the three
stones on which prayers and thanksgivings
were offered on the discovery of the lost Word ;
thereby affording an example that it is our
duty in every undertaking to offer up our
prayers and thanksgivings to the God of our
salvation .
Lines, Parallel . 	See Parallel Lines .
Lingam . 	The lingam and the youi of the
Indian mysteries were the same as the phallus
and cteis of the Grecian . (See Phallic Wor-
ship .)
Link . A degree formerly conferred in
England, in connection with the Mark Degree,
under the title of the "Mark and Link or
Wrestle ." It is now obsolete .
Linnecar, Richard . 	The author of the
celebrated Masonic anthem beginning
"Let there be Light! th' Almighty spoke ;
Refulgent beams from chaos broke,
T' illume the rising earth ."
Little is known of his personal history except
that he was the Coroner of Wakefield, Eng-
land, and for many years the Master of the
Lodge of Unanimity, No . 238, in that town .
He was a zealous and studious Mason . In
1789 he published, at Leeds, a volume of plays,
poems, and miscellaneous writings, among
which was an essay entitled Strictures on Free-
masonry, and the anthem already referred to .
He appears to have been a man of respectable
abilities .
Lion, Chevalier du . 	(Knight of theLion .)
The twentieth grade of the third series of the
Metropolitan Chapter of France .
Lion of the Tribe of Judah . 	See Tribe
of Judah, Lion of the .
Lion's Paw . A mode of recognition so
called because of the rude resemblance made
by the hand and fingers to a lion's paw . It
refers to the "Lion of the tribe of Judah ."
Literature of Masonry . 	Freemasonry
has its literature, which has been rapidly de-
veloped in the last few decades of the present
century, far more than in any preceding ones .
This literature is not to be found in the work-
ing of its degrees, in the institution of its
Lodges, in the diffusion of its charities, or in
the extension of its fraternal ties . Of all
these, although necessary and important in-
gredients of the Order, its literature is wholly
independent . This is connected with its
ethics as a science of moral, social, and relig-

LITIGATION
ious philosophy ; with its history and archeol-
ogy, as springing up out of the past times ;
with its biography as the field in which men of
intellect have delighted to labor ; and with its
bibliography as the record of the results of
that labor . It is connected, too, incidentally,
with many other arts and sciences . Myth-
ology affords an ample field for discussion in
the effort to collate the analogies of classic
myths and symbols with its own . Philology
submits its laws for application to the origin
of its mystic words, all of which are con-
nected with its history . It has, in fine, its
science and its philosophy, its poetry and
romance . No one who has not studied the
literature of Masonry can even dream of its
beauty and extent ; no one who has studied it
can have failed to receive the reward that it
bestows .
Litigation . 	See Lawsuits .
Livery . 	The word livery is supposed to be
derived from the clothing delivered by masters
to their servants . The trading companies or
gilds of England began about the time of Ed-
ward I . to wear a suit of clothing of a form,
color, and material peculiar to each company,
which was called its livery, and also its cloth-
ing . To be admitted into the membership
and privileges of the company was called "to
have the clothing ." The Grocers' Company,
for instance, were ordered "to be clothed once
a year in a suit of livery " ; and there is an
order in the reign of Henry V . to purchase
cloth "for the clothing of the brethren of the
brewers' craft ." There can be no doubt that
the usage of speaking of a Mason's clothing, or
of his being clothed, is derived from the cus-
tom of the gilds . A Mason's clothing, "black
dress and white gloves and apron," is, in fact,
his livery . (See Clothed .)
Livre d'Architecture . 	The French desig-
nation of the book of minutes .
Livre d'Eloquence . 	A French expres-
sion for a collection of minutes of addresses
made in a Lodge .
Livre d'Or . 	French . The Book of Gold,
which see .
Local Laws . See Laws of Masonry .
Locke's Letter . 	The letter of John Locke
which is said to have accompanied the Le-
land MS ., and which contains his comments
on it . (See Leland Manuscript .)
Lodge . 	There are three definitions which,
in the technical language of Masonry, apply
to the word Lodge .
1 . It is a place in which Freemasons meet .
In this sense the words more generally used
are Lodge Room, which see .
2 . It is the assembly or organized body of
Freemasons duly congregated for labor or
for business . 	These two distinctions are
precisely the same as those to be found in the
word "church," which is expressive both of
the building in which a congregation meets
to worship and the congregation of worship-
ers themselves . This second definition is
what distinguishes a meeting of Symbolic
Masons, who constitute a Lodge, from one of
Royal Arch Masons, whose meeting would
LODGE 	449
be called a Chapter, or of Cryptic Masons,
whose assembly would be a Council .
The word appears in French as loge ; Ger-
man, loge ; Spanish, logic ; Portuguese, loja ;
and Italian, loggia . 	This is irrefragible evi-
dence that the word was, with the Institu-
tion, derived by the Continent of Europe from
England .
The derivation of the word is, I think, plain .
Ragon says that it comes from the Sanskrit
loga, signifying the world . There would, at
first sight, seem to be a connection between
this etymology and the symbolic meaning of a
Lodge, which represents the world ; but yet it
is evidently far-fetched, since we have a much
simpler root immediately at hand . Mr . Hope
says, speaking of the Freemasons of the
Middle Ages (and Wren had previously said
the same thing), that wherever they were en-
gaged to work, they "set themselves to build-
ing temporary huts, for their habitation,
around the spot where the work was to be car-
ried on ." These huts the German Masons
called hutten ; the English, lodges, which is
from the Anglo-Saxon, 	logian, to dwell .
Lodge, therefore, meant the dwelling-place or
lodging of the Masons ; and this is undoubt-
edly the origin of the modern use of the word .
To corroborate this, we find Du Cange (Gloss .)
defining the Medieval Latin, logic or logium,
as "a house or habitation ." He refers to the
Italian, loggia, and quotes Lambertus Ar-
densis as saying that "logic is a place next to
the house, where persons were accustomed
to hold pleasant conversation ." 	Hence
Lambertus thinks that it comes from the
Greek, logos, a discourse . Du Cange asserts
that there is no doubt that in the Middle Ages
logic or logium was commonly used for an
apartment or dwelling connected with the
main building. Thus, the smallest apart-
ments occupied by the cardinals when meeting
in conclave were called logice or Lodges . All
of which sustains the idea that the Lodges of
the old Operative Masons were small dwellings
attached, or at least contiguous, to the main
edifice on which they were at work .
In the Old Charges, the word is not gener-
ally met with . The meeting of the Craft is
there usually called the Assembly . 	But there
are instances of its employment in those docu-
ments . Thus in the Lodge of Antiquity MS .
whose date is 1686, the word occurs several
times . There is also abundant documentary
evidence to show that the word Lodge was
long before the eighteenth century, applied
to their meeting by the Freemasons of Eng-
land and Scotland .
Before the restoration of the Grand Lodge
of England in 1717, Preston tells us that
any number of brethren might assemble at
any place for the performance of work, and,
when so assembled, were authorized to receive
into the Order brothers and fellows, and to
practise the rites of Masonry . The ancient
charges were the only standard for the regula-
tion of their conduct . The Master of the
Lodge was elected pro tempore, and his au-
thority terminated with the dissolution of the

450 	LODGE
meeting over which he had presided, unless the
Lodge was permanently established at any
particular place . To the general assembly of
the Craft, held once or twice a year, all the
brethren indiscriminately were amenable, and
to that power alone . But on the formation of
Grand Lodges, this inherent right of assem-
bling was voluntarily surrendered by the
brethren and the Lodges, and vested in the
Grand Lodge . And from this time Warrants
of Constitution date their existence .
The mode of bringing a Lodge into existence
under the present system in America is as fol-
lows : Seven Master Masons, being desirous
of establishing a Lodge, apply by petition to
the Grand Master, who will, if he thinks
proper, issue his dispensation authorizing
them to congregate as Masons in a Lodge, and
therein to confer the three degrees of Ancient
Craft Masonry . This instrument is of force
during the pleasure of the Grand Master . At
the next meeting of the Grand Lodge it ex-
pires, and is surrendered to the Grand Lodge,
which, if there be no objection, will issue a
Charter, technically called a Warrant of Con-
stitution, whereby the body is permanently
established as a Lodge, and as one of the con-
stituents of the Grand Lodge .
The power of granting Warrants of Consti-
tution is vested in the Grand Lodges of Scot-
land, Ireland, Germany, and France, as it is in
America ; but in England the rule is different,
and there the prerogative is vested in the
Grand Master .
A Lodge thus constituted consists, in the
American system, of the following officers :
Worshipful Master, Senior and Junior Ward-
ens, Treasurer, Secretary, Senior and Junior
Deacons, two Stewards, and a Tiler .
Under the English Constitution the officers
are, in addition to these, a Director of Cere-
monies, a Chaplain, an Inner Guard, an Or-
ganist and an Almoner .
In a Lodge of the French Rite, the officers
are still more numerous . They are Le Ven-
erable or Worshipful Master, Premier and
Second Surveillants or Senior and Junior
Wardens, Orator, Treasurer, Secretary, Hos-
pitaler or Collector of Alms, the Expert, com-
bining the duties of the Senior Deacon and an
examining committee, Master of Ceremonies,
Architecte, who attends to the decoration of
the Lodge, and superintends the financial
department, Archiviste or Librarian, Keeper
of the Seal, Master of the Banquets or Stew-
ard, and Guardian of the Temple or Tiler .
The officers in a Lodge of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite are a Master, two
Wardens, Orator, Treasurer, Secretary, Al-
moner, Expert, Assistant Expert, Master of
Ceremonies, Almoner Steward, Tiler, and
sometimes a few others as Pursuivant, and
Keeper of the Seals .
In other Rites and countries the officers
vary to a slight extent, but everywhere there
are four officers who always are found, and who
may therefore be considered as indispensable,
namely, the Master, two Wardens and Tiler .
A Lodge thus constituted is a Lodge of
LODGE
Master Masons . Strictly and legally speak-
ing, such a body as a Lodge of Entered Ap-
prentices or of Fellow-Crafts is not known
under the present Masonic system . No War-
rant is ever granted for an Apprentices' or
Fellow-Crafts' Lodge, and without a Warrant
a Lodge cannot exist . The Warrant granted
is always for a Masters' Lodge, and the mem-
bers composing it are all Master Masons . The
Lodges mentioned by Wren and Hope, to
which allusion has been made, and which were
congregated, in the Middle Ages, around the
edifices which the Masons were constructing,
were properly Fellow-Crafts' Lodge, because
all the members were Fellow-Crafts ; even the
Master being merely a gradation of rank, not
a degree of knowledge . So at the revival of
Masonry in 1717, the Lodges were Entered
Apprentices' Lodges, because in them nothing
but the First Degree was conferred, and nearly
all the members were Entered Apprentices .
But when the Grand Lodge, where only at
first the Fellow-Craft and Master's Degree
were conferred, permitted them to be conferred
in the subordinate Lodges, then the degree of
Master Mason was sought for by all the
Craft, and became the object of every Mason's
ambition . From that time the Craft became
master Masons, and the First and Second
degrees were considered only as preliminary
steps . So it has remained to this day ; and
all modern Lodges, wherever Masonry has ex-
tended, are Masters' Lodges, and nothing less .
Sometimes secretaries, ignorant of these
facts, will record in their minutes that "the
Lodge of Master Masons was closed and a
Lodge of Entered Apprentices was opened ."
Neither written nor unwritten law sanctions
any such phraseology . If the Lodge of Mas-
ter Masons is closed, there is an end of the
Masonic congregation . Where is the Warrant
under which a Lodge of Entered Apprentices
is opened, and how can a Lodge, in which
there is not, probably, a single Apprentice,
but where all the officers and all the members
are Master Masons, be called a Lodge of Ap-
prentices? The ritual has wisely provided for
the avoidance of such an anomaly, and, seeing
that the Warrant says that the Lodge of Mas-
ter Masons is empowered to make Appren-
tices and Fellow-Crafts, it says "the Lodge
was opened on the first degree ." That is to
say, the Lodge of Masters still retaining its
character as a Masters' Lodge, without which
it would lose its legality, and not venturing to
open a kind of Lodge for which its members
had no Warrant nor authority, simply placed
itself on the points of a degree in which it was
about to give instruction .
Some of the rituals speak, it is true, of
Lodges composed in ancient times of Masters
and Fellow-Crafts or Masters and Appren-
tices ; and the Webb lectures tell us that at
the Temple of Solomon the Lodges of En-
tered Apprentices consisted of one Master
and six Apprentices, and the Lodges of Fel-
low-Crafts of two Masters and three Fellow-
Crafts . But all this is purely symbolic, and
has no real existence in the practical working

LODGE
of the Order . No one in these days has seen a
Lodge of one Master Mason and six Appren-
tices . The Masons working in the First De-
gree are as much Master Masons as the same
Masons are when they are working in the
Third . 	The Lodge legally is the same,
though it may vary the subjects of its instruc-
tion so as to have them in the First, Second,
or Third Degree .
So important a feature in Masonry as a
Lodge, the congregations of Masons for work
or worship, cannot be without its appropriate
symbolism . Hence a Lodge when duly opened
becomes a symbol of the world . 	Its cov-
ering is like the world's, a sky or clouded can-
opy, to reach which, as the abode of those
who do the will of the Great Architect, it is
furnished with the theological ladder, which
reaches from earth to heaven ; and it is il-
luminated as is the world, by the refulgent
rays of the sun, symbolically represented in
his rising in the East, his meridian height in
the South, and his setting in the West ; and
lastly, its very form, a long quadrangle or ob-
long square, is in reference to the early tradi-
tion that such was the shape of the inhabited
world .
3 . The Lodge, technically speaking, is a
piece of furniture made in imitation of the
Ark of the Covenant, which was constructed
by Bezaleel (Exodus xxxvii . 1) according
to the form prescribed by God himself, and
which, after the erection of the Temple, was
kept in the Holy of Holies . As that con-
tained the table of the laws, the Lodge con-
tains the Book of Constitutions and the War-
rant of Constitution granted by the Grand
Lodge . It is used only in certain ceremonies,
such as the constitution and consecration of
new Lodges, but its use is obsolete in England .
Lodge, Chartered . 	See Chartered Lodge .
Lodge, Clandestine . 	See Clandestine
Lodge .
Lodge, Constituted . 	See 	Constituted
Legally .
Lodge, Dormant . See Dormant Lodge .
Lodge, Emergent . See Emergent Lodge .
Lodge, Extinct . 	See Extinct Lodge .
Lodge, Holy . 	See Holy Lodge .
Lodge Hours . Dermott says (A him . Rez .,
p . xxiii .) "that Lodge hours, that is, the time
in which it is lawful for a Lodge to work or do
business, are from March 25th to September
25th, between the hours of seven and ten ; and
from September 25th to March 25th, between
the hours of six and nine ." Whence he derived
the law is unknown ; but it is certain that it
has never been rigidly observed even by the
"ancient Lodges," for whom his Ahiman
Rezon was written .
Lodge, Just . 	See Just Lodge .
Lodge Master, English . 	(Maitre 	de
Lodge Anglais .) 	A degree in the nomenclature
of Thory, inserted on the authority of Leman-
ceau .
Lodge Master, French . 	(Maitre de Loge
Frangais .) The Twenty-sixth Degree of the
collection of the Metropolitan Chapter of
France .
LODGE 	451
Lodge, Occasional . See Occasional Lodge .
Lodge of Instruction . 	These are assem-
blies of brethren congregated without a War-
rant of Constitution, under the direction of a
lecturer or skilful brother, for the purpose of
improvement in Masonry, which is accom-
plished by the frequent rehearsal of the work
and lectures of each degree . These bodies
should consist exclusively of Master Masons ;
and though they possess no Masonic power, it
is evident to every Mason that they are ex-
tremely useful as schoors of preparation for
the duties that are afterward to be per-
formed in the regular Lodge . In England,
these Lodges of Instruction are attached to
regularly Warranted Lodges, or are specially
licensed by the Grand Master . But they have
an independent set of officers, who are elected
at no stated periods-sometimes for a year,
sometimes for six or three months, and some-
times changed at every night of meeting .
They of course have no power of initiation,
but simply meet for purposes of practise in
the ritual . They are, however, bound to keep
a record of their transactions, subject to the
inspection of the superior powers .
Lodge of St. John . 	The Masonic tradi-
tion is that the primitive or mother Lodge was
held at Jerusalem, and dedicated to St . John
first the Baptist, then the Evangelist, and
finally to both . Hence this Lodge was called
"TheLodgeof theHolySt . John of Jerusalem ."
From this Lodge all other Lodges are supposed
figuratively to descend, and they therefore
receive the same general name, accompanied
by another local and distinctive one . In all
Masonic documents the words ran formerly as
follows : "From the Lodge of the holy St .
John of Jerusalem, under the distinctive ap-
pellation of Solomon's Lodge, No . 1," or what-
ever might be the local name . In this style
foreign documents still run ; and it is but a
few years since it has been at all disused in
America . Hence we say that every Mason
hails from such a Lodge, that is to say, from a
just and legally constituted Lodge . In the
earliest catechisms of the eighteenth century
we find this formula : "Q . What Lodge are
you of? A . The Lodge of St . John ." And
another question is, "How many angles in St .
John's Lodge? " In one of the high degrees it
is stated that Lodges receive this title "be-
cause, in the time of the Crusades, the Perfect
Masons communicated a knowledge of their
Mysteries to the Knights of St . John of Jeru-
salem," and as both were thus under the same
law, the Lodges were called St . John's Lodges .
But this was only one of the attempts to con-
nect Freemasonry with the Templar system .
Lodge, Perfect . 	See Just Lodge .
Lodge, Regular . 	See Regular Lodge .
Lodge Room . The Masons on the Conti-
nent of Europe have a prescribed form or rit-
ual of building, according to whose directions
it is absolutely necessary that every hall for
Masonic purposes shall be erected . No such
regulation exists among the Fraternity of
America or Great Britain . Still, the usages
of the Craft, and the objects of convenience in

452 	LODGE
the administration of our rites, require that
certain general rules should be followed in the
construction of a Lodge room . These rules,
as generally observed in America, are as fol-
lows :
A Lodge room should always, if possible, be
situated due East and West . This position is
not absolutely necessary ; and yet it is so far
so as to demand that some sacrifices should be
EAST .
H
0
Platform 	- 	or Dais
for 	Past Masters .
-----------------------------------------
Senior Deacon .
Treasurer . 	Secretary .
Light . *
Altar .
b U
Cd
* Light .
Light . " 	Steward .
Junior Warden .
Steward . 	+
Preparation Door . 	Tiler's
,oom . 	~ Room .
WEST . Doorm.--~
0
0
J1
made, if possible, to obtain so desirable a po-
sition . 	It should also be isolated, where it is
practicable, from all surrounding buildings,
and should always be placed in an upper story .
No Lodge should ever be held on the ground
floor .
The form of a Lodge room should be that of
a parallelogram or oblong square, at least one-
third larger from East to West than it is from
North to South . The ceiling should be lofty,
to give dignity to the appearance of the hall,
as well as for the purposes of health, by com-
pensating, in some degree, for the inconven-
ience of closed windows, which necessarily
will deteriorate the quality of the air in a very
LONDON
short time in a low room . The approaches to
the Lodge room from without should be angu-
lar, for, as Oliver says, "A straight entrance is
unmasonic, and cannot be tolerated ." There
should be two entrances to the room, which
should be situated in the West, and on each
side of the Senior Warden's station . The one
on his right hand is for the introduction of vis-
itors and members, and leading from the
Tiler's room, is called the Tiler's, or the outer
door ; the other, on his left, leading from the
preparation room ; is known as the "inner
door," and sometimes called the "northwest
door ." The situation of these two doors, as
well as the rooms with which they are con-
nected, and which are essentially necessary in
a well-constructed Lodge room, may be seen
from the diagram in opposite column, which
also exhibits the seats of the officers and
the arrangement of the altar and lights . For
further observations, see Hall, Masonic .
Lodge, Royal . 	See Royal Lodge .
Lodge, Sacred . See Sacred Lodge .
Lodge, Symbol of the . 	The modern
symbol or hieroglyphic of the word Lodge is
the figure=, which undoubtedly refers to the
form of the Lodge as an "oblong square ."
But in the old rituals of the early part of the
last century we find this symbol : The
c ross here, as Krause (Kunsturk ., i ., 37) O
H suggests, refers to the "four angles" of
the Lodge, as in the question : "How
many angles in St . John's Lodge?
A . Four, bordering on squares" ; and
the delta is the Pythagorean symbol of
Divine Providence watching over the Lodge .
This symbol has long since become obsolete .
Loge . 	The French word for Lodge .
Logic . 	The art of reasoning, and one of
the seven liberal arts and sciences, whose uses
are inculcated in the Second Degree . The
power of right reasoning, which distinguishes
the man of sane mind from the madman and
the idiot, is deemed essential to the Mason,
that he may comprehend both his rights and
his duties . And hence the unfortunate beings
just named, who are without this necessary
mental quality, are denied admission into the
Order . The Old Charges define logic to be the
art "that teacheth to discern truth from false-
hood ."
Loki . See Balder .
Lombardy . 	At the close of the dark ages,
Lombardy and the adjacent Italian States
were the first which awakened to industry .
New cities arose, and the kings, lords, and
municipalities began to encourage the artifi-
cers of different professions . Among the arts
exercised and improved in Lombardy, the art
of building held a preeminent rank, and from
that kingdom, as from a center, the Coma-
cine Masters were dispersed over all Europe .
(See Traveling Freemasons : Comacine .)
London . 	With the city of London, the
modern history of Freemasonry is intimately
connected . A congress of Masons, as it may
p roperly be called, was convened there by the
four old Lodges, at the Apple-Tree Tavern,
in 1717 . Its results were the formation of

LOST
the Grand Lodge of England, and a modifica-
tion of the Masonic system, whence the Free-
masonry of the present day has descended .
Anderson, in his second edition of the Book of
Constitutions (1738), gives the account of
this, as it is now called, Revival of Masonry,
which see .
Lost Word . 	The mythical history of Free-
masonry informs us that there once existed a
WORD of surpassing value, and claiming a
profound veneration ; that this Word was
known to but few ; that it was at length
lost ; and that a temporary substitute for it
was adopted . But as the very philosophy of
Masonry teaches us that there can be no
death without a resurrection-no decay
without a subsequent restoration-on the
same principle it follows that the loss of the
Word must suppose its eventual recovery .
Now, this it is, precisely, that constitutes
the myth of the Lost Word and the search for
it . No matter what was the word, no matter
how it was lost, nor why a substitute was pro-
vided, nor when nor where it was recovered .
These are all points of subsidiary importance,
necessary, it is true, for knowing the legendary
history, but not necessary for understanding
the symbolism . The only term of the myth
that is to be regarded in the study of its in-
terpretation, is the abstract idea of a word
lost and afterward recovered .
The WORD therefore, may be conceived to
be the symbol of Divine Truth ; and all its
modifications-the loss, the substitution, and
the recovery-are but component parts of the
mythical symbol which represents a search
after truth . In a general sense, the Word
itself being then the symbol of Divine Truth,
the narrative of its loss and the search for its
recovery becomes a mythical symbol of the
decay and loss of the true religion among the
ancient nations, at and after the dispersion on
the plains of Shinar, and of the attempts of
the wise men, the philosophers, and priests, to
find and retain it in their secret mysteries and
initiations, which have hence been designated
as the Spurious Freemasonry of Antiquity .
But there is a special or individual, as well
as a general interpretation, and in this special
or individual interpretation the Word, with its
accompanying myth of a loss, a substitute,
and a recovery, becomes a symbol of the per-
sonal progress of a candidate from his first
initiation to the completion of his course,
when he receives a full development of the
mysteries .
Lotus . 	The lotus plant, so celebrated in
the religions of Egypt and Asia, is a species
of Nymphsea, or water-lily, which grows
abundantly on the banks of streams in warm
climates . Although more familiarly known as
the lotus of the Nile, it was not indigenous to
Egypt, but was probably introduced into that
country from the East, among whose people it
was everywhere consecrated as a sacred sym-
bol . The Brahmanical deities were almost
always represented as either decorated with
its flowers, or holding it as a scepter, or seated
on it as a throne . Coleman says (Mythol .
LOYALTY 	453
Hindus, p . 388) that to the Hindu poets the
lotus was what the rose was to the Persians .
Floating on the water it is the emblem of the
world, and the type also of the mountain
Meru, the residence of the gods . Among the
Egyptians, the lotus was the symbol of Osiris
and Isis . It was esteemed a sacred ornament
by the priests, and was placed as a coronet
upon the heads of many of the gods . It was
also much used in the sacred architecture of
the Egyptians, being placed as an entablature
upon the columns of their temples . Thence
it was introduced by Solomon into Jewish
architecture, being found, under the name of
"lily work," as a part of the ornaments of the
two pillars at the porch of the Temple . (See
Lily and Pillars of the Porch .)
Louis Napoleon . 	Second Adjoint of the
Grand Master of the G . Orient of France .
Nominated, in 1806, King of Holland . Louis
Napoleon III . was widely known as an inter-
ested Mason .
Louisiana . 	Masonry was introduced into
Louisiana in 1793 by the organization of Per-
fect Union Lodge, under a Charter issued by
the Grand Lodge of South Carolina . A sec-
ond Lodge was established by the Mother
Lodge of Marseilles, in France ; and three
others were subsequently chartered by the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania . These five
Lodges instituted a Grand Lodge on July 11,
1812, and Francis du Bourg was elected the
first Grand Master . A difference of nation-
ality and of Masonic rites have been a fertile
source of controversy in Louisiana, the results
of which it would be tedious to follow in detail .
In 1848, there were two Grand Lodges, which
were united in 1850 to constitute the present
Grand Lodge .
The Grand Chapter of Louisiana was insti-
tuted on March 5, 1813 ; a Grand Council of
Royal and Select Masters on February 16,
1856 ; and a Grand Commandery of Knights
Templar on February 4, 1864 . The Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite has always held
a prominent position in the Masonry of Louis-
iana, and it has a Grand Consistory and many
subordinate bodies of the Rite in active and
successful operation .
Louveteau . 	See Lewis .
Lowen . In the Lansdowne Manuscript
we meet with this charge : "that a Master or
ffellow make not a moulde stone square, nor
rule to no Lowen nor sett no Lowen worke
within the Lodge .; ' 	[This has been said to be
an error for "Cowan," but it is more probably
intended for "Layer" (q . v .), which is the word
used in the parallel passage in other MSS .-
E . L . H .]
Low Twelve . 	In Masonic language mid-
night is so called . The reference is to the sun,
which is then below the earth . Low twelve
in Masonic symbolism is an unpropitious
hour .
Loyalty . 	Notwithstanding the calumnies
of Barruel, Robison, and a host of other anti-
Masonic writers who assert that Masonry is
ever engaged in efforts to uproot the govern-
ments within which it may exist, there is

454 	LUCHET
nothing more evident than that Freemasonry
is a loyal institution, and that it inculcates, in
all its public instructions, obedience to govern-
ment . Thus, in the Prestonian charge given
in the last century to the Entered Apprentice,
and continued to this day in the same words
in English Lodges, we find the following
words :
"In the State, you are to be a quiet and
peaceable subject, true to your sovereign, and
just to y our country ; you are not to counte-
nance disloyalty or rebellion, but patiently
submit to legal authority, and conform with
cheerfulness to the government under which
you live, yielding obedience to the laws which
afford you protection, but never forgetting
the attachment you owe to the place of your
nativity, or the allegiance due to the sover-
eign or protectors of that spot ."
The charge given in American Lodges is of
the same import, and varies but slightly in its
language .
"In the State, you are to be a quiet and
peaceful subject, true to your government,
and just to your country ; you are not to
countenance disloyalty or rebellion, but pa-
tiently submit to legal authority, and conform
with cheerfulness to the government of the
country in which you live ."
The charge given in French Lodges, though
somewhat differing in form from both of these,
is couched in the same spirit and teaches the
same lesson . It is to this effect :
"Obedience to the laws and submission to
the authorities are among the most imperious
duties of the Mason, and he is forbidden at all
times from engaging in plots and conspira-
cies ."
Hence it is evident that the true Mason
must be a true patriot .
Luchet, Jean Pierre Louis, Marquis de .
A French historical writer, who was born at
Saintes in 1740, and died in 1791 . He was the
writer of many works of but little reputation,
but is principally distinguished in Masonic
literature as the author of an attack upon Il-
luminism under the title of Essai sur la Secte
des Illumines . 	It first appeared anonymously
in 1789 . Four editions of it were published .
The third and fourth with augmentations and
revisions, which were attributed to Mirabeau,
were printed with the outer title of Histoire
secret de la Cour de Berlin (par Mirabeau) .
This work was published, it is known, without
his consent, and was burned by the common
executioner in consequence of its libelous
character . Luchet's essay has become very
scarce, and is now valued rather on account of
its rarity than for its intrinsic excellence .
Ludewig, H . E . 	An energetic Mason,
born in 1810, in Germany ; died in 1856, in
America . By "powers from home" this
ardent brother attempted to set up an inde-
pendent authority to the existing Grand Lodge
system in the United States ; but, like many
such attempts, it flashed brilliantly for a sea-
son, but proved of ephemeral nature .
Lufton . 	One of the French terms for Lou-
veteau, or Lewis, which see .
LUX
Lully, Raymond . 	A celebrated chemist
and philosopher, the seneschal of Majorca,
surnamed le docteur illumine . 	His discoveries
are most noted, such as the mode of rectifying
s p irits, the refining of silver, etc . He was born
about 1234 . In 1276 he founded a college of
Franciscans at Palma, for instruction in East-
ern lore, and especially the study of the Arabic
language, for which purpose he instituted
several colleges between the years 1293 and
1311 . He died in 1314 . He is known as an
eminent Rosicrucian, and many fables as to
his longevity are related of him .
Lumiere, La Grande . 	(The Grand Light .)
A grade in the collection of Brother Viany .
Lumiere, La Vrale . 	(The True Light, or
Perfect Mason .) A degree in the Chapter of
the Grand Lodge of Royal York of Berlin .
(Thory, Acta Lat ., i ., 321 .)
Luminaries . 	The first five officers in a
French Lodge, namely, the Master, two
Wardens, Orator, and Secretary, are called
luminaires or luminaries, because it is by them
that light is dispensed to the Lodge .
Lunus . 	An Egyptian deity, known as
Khons Lunus, and represented as hawk-
headed, surmounted by the crescent and disk .
When appearin g with the head of an ibis, he
is called Thoth-Lunus . His worship was
very extensive through ancient Egypt, where
he was known as Aah, who presides over re-
juvenation and resurrection . Champollion
mentions in his Pantheon a Lunus bifrons .
Lustration . 	A religious rite practised by
the ancients, and performed before any act
of devotion . It consisted in washing the
hands, and sometimes the whole body, in lus-
tral or consecrated water . It was intended
as a symbol of the internal purification of the
heart . It was a ceremony preparatory to
initiation in all the Ancient Mysteries . The
ceremony is practised with the same sym-
bolic import in some of the high degrees of
Masonry . So strong was the idea of a con-
nection between lustration and initiation,
that in the low Latin of the Middle Ages
lustrare meant to initiate . Thus Du Cange
(Glossarium) cites the expression "lustrare
religione Christianorum" as signifying "to
initiate into the Christian religion ."
Lux . 	Latin for light, which see . Free-
masonry anciently received, among other
names, that of "Lux," because it is that sub-
lime doctrine of truth by which the pathway
of him who has attained it is to be illumined
in the pilgrimage of life . Among the Rosi-
crucians, light was the knowledge of the
philosopher's stone ; and Mosheim says that
in chemical language the cross was an emblem
of light, because it contains within its figure
the forms of the three figures of which LVX,
or light, is composed .
Lux e tenebris . Light out of darkness . 	A
motto very commonly used in the caption of
Masonic documents as expressive of the object
of Masonry, and of what the true Mason sup-
poses himself to have attained . It has a
recondite meaning . In the primeval ages and
in the early mythology, darkness preceded

LUX
light . 	"In the thought," says Cox, "of these
early ages, the sun was the child of night or
darkness ." (Aryan Myth ., i ., 43 .) So lux being
truth or Masonry, and tenebrce, or darkness,
the symbol of initiation, lux e tenebris is Ma-
sonic truth proceeding from initiation .
Lux Flat et Lux Fit . 	Latin . "Let
there be light, and there was light ." A motto
sometimes prefixed to Masonic documents .
Luz . 	An ever-living power, according to
the old Jewish Rabbis, residing in a small
joint-bone existing at the base of the spinal
column . To this undying principle, watered
by the dew of heaven, is ascribed the immor-
tality in man .
"R . Joshua Ben Hananiah re p lied to
Hadrian, as to how man revived in the world
to come, `From Luz, in the back-bone .' When
asked to demonstrate this, he took Luz, a
little bone out of the back-bone, and put it in
water, and it was not steeped ; he put it in the
fire, and it was not burned ; he brought it to
the mill, and that could not grind it ; he laid
it on the anvil, and knocked it with a hammer,
but the anvil was cleft, and the hammer
broken ."
L . V . C . Letters inscribed on the rings of
profession, worn by the Knights of Baron von
Hund's Templar system . They are the
initials of the sentence Labor Viris Convenit .
Labor is suitable for men . 	It was also en-
graved on their seals .
Lyon, David Murray . 	This well-known
writer and historian of Freemasonry in Scot-
land was initiated in 1856 in Lodge Ayr St .
Paul, No . 204, on the roll of the Grand Lodge
of Scotland . He was a printer by trade and
was at one time employed by the Ayrshire
Express Company . In 1877 he was ap-
pointed Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
LYONS 	455
of Scotland and held the post until 1900 . He
died on January 30, 1903 .
He was, without doubt, the foremost Ma-
sonic student of Scotland, either of this or
any other period ; and the results of his
continuous and arduous researches are to be
found in all the books and periodicals of the
Craft for the last twenty years, both at home
and abroad . It is simply impossible to furnish
anything like an accurate and complete list of
his many valuable contributions to Masonic
magazines . 	. His chief works have been
the History of the Mother Lodge Kilwinning,
Scotland, the History of the Old Lodge at Thorn-
hill, and, finally, the History of the Ancient
Lodge at Edinburgh (Mary's Chapel), from
the sixteenth century . 	This grand work,
which was published in 1873, has placed its
author in the front rank of Masonic authors .
[E . L . H .]
Lyons, Congress of . A Masonic congress
was convoked in 1778, at the city of Lyons,
France, by the Lodge of Chevaliers Bien-
faisants . 	It was opened on the 26th of No-
vember, and continued in session until the
27th of December, under the presidency of M .
Villermoz . Its ostensible object was to pro-
cure a reformation in Masonry by the abjura-
tion of the Templar theory ; but it wasted its
time in the correction of rituals and in Ma-
sonic intrigues, and does not ap p ear to have
been either sagacious in its methods, or success-
ful in its results . Even its abjuration of the
Strict Observance doctrine that Templarism
was the true origin of Freemasonry, is said to
have been insincere, and forced upon it by the
injunctions of the political authorities, who
were opposed to the p ropagation of any sys-
tem which might tend to restore the Order of
Knights Templar .
