Advanced Magick
for Beginners
Alan Chapman
AEON

A new paradigm that delivers a genuine
transformation of occultism
The author assumes no previous knowledge, only a willingness
to explore what magick offers, yet it's apparent to anyone with
a background in the subject that Alan Chapman is drawing on
a wide range of experience, from classical Crowleyean Magick,
to eastern metaphysics, and back again to Discordianism and
Chaos Magick. Chapman's writing-style is humorous, direct,
seductively logical, and his enthusiasm for the benefits of
magick is both tangible and infectious.
The novice magician will indeed find themselves equipped
to commence all sorts of magickal operations: trance work,
enchantment, divination, and even some of the higher forms of
spiritual development. To experienced magicians, Chapman
offers a subtler challenge: he revitalises magick by cutting it
free from the extreme relativism Chaos Magick bequeathed,
provocatively redefining it as: xthe art, science and culture of
experiencing truth.'
Alan Chapman is a Western magician and writer, a Magus of
the A.'.A.', and a member of numerous secret societies.
He has appeared in the Fortean Times and Chaos International,
and regularly contributes to the award-winning website
www.thebaptistshead.co.uk.
AEON BOOKS LTD
118 FINCHLEY RD
LONDON NW3 5HT
www.aeonbooks.co.uk
ISBN 978-1-904658-41-2
9

fr
This book was scanned and edited
as a labour of love by
,- Lithargoel -
M M . '

Advanced Magick
for Beginners
by
Alan Chapman

First p u b l i s h e d 2008
b y A e o n Books Ltd.
L o n d o n W 5
w w w . a e o n b o o k s . c o . u k
© Alan C h a p m a n
The moral right of the a u t h o r h a s been asserted.
All rights reserved. N o part of this b o o k m a y b e repro-
d u c e d or untilised Ln any form or by a n y m e a n s , elec-
tronic or mechanical, w i t h o u t permission in w r i t i n g
from the publisher.
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data
A C.I.P. is available for this b o o k from the British Lib-
rary.
ISBN-13:978-1 -9C465-&41 -2
Printed and bound in Great Britain.

Om Gam.
I bow to Ganapati.

C O N T E N T S
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 7
INTRODUCTION 9
1. NOTHING U P M Y SLEEVE 1 5
2 . YL A M EXTERNAL!' 2 3
3 . RUB A SPONGE 2 9
4 . IN THE BEGINNING WAS THE W O R D 3 7
5 . METHOD T o THE MADNESS 3 9
6 . A MODEL MAGICIAN 5 1
7 . WHAT'S IN A NAME? 5 7
8 . G O T YOUR NUMBER 6 5
9 . THE WORLD AS W E KNOW IT 7 1
1 0 . THE DIRTY F - W O R D : 8 9
1 1 . G O D BOTHERING 9 3
1 2 . O N E PORTION O F DEATH, PLEASE 1 0 7
1 3 . MAKING OMELETTES 1 2 1
1 4 . HOVER BOARDS AND SILVER LYCRA 1 3 5
1 5 . ABSEILING 1 4 1
1 6 . BUT SOMEONE W O U L D HAVE TOLD M E ! 1 5 1
1 7. R o w YOUR BOM... 1 5 5
RECOMMENDED READING 1 6 7

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This book is dedicated to my lazy chela, Duncan
Barford.
I would like to thank OR for the vision, Lord Gane-
sha for opening the way, Tezcatlipoca for taking an
interest, AC for the teachings, RAW for the hand-
over, the BIS for the most fun I've had in my life,
and the One True Body of Saints for all their love
and support.

OR:
'THE PURPOSE O F THIS BOOK'
Investigating the Western tradition of magick can
be confusing at the best of times, let alone for a
person who is at the beginning of their magical
journey. There is the near-impenetrable transcend-
entalism of early twentieth-century magical texts,
the moralistic environmentalism of the modern Pa-
gan movement, the popular naive sentimentality
of the New Age and the almost cartoon-like prac-
tical materialism of some postmodern authors.
Where are we supposed to look for a basic intro-
duction to magick, when there doesn't appear to
be a consensus on what magick is, let alone a reas-
on for w h y w e might want to practice it?
However this confusion around the fundament-
al nature of magick is in itself a fairly recent devel-
opment. Historically, magick has a very specific
purpose as a two-thcusand-year-old sacred tradi-
tion peculiar to the West. Beginning in Hellenistic
Greece, where it w a s taught by the likes of Plato
and Plotiirus, it was absorbed into Christianity by

pseudo-Dionysius, then forced underground to be-
come alchemy during the Dark Ages. It resurfaced
through John Dee and Rosicrucianism in the six-
teenth century, and later manifested as the
European occult revival of the nineteenth and
twentieth centuries. Over the years it has survived
near extinction through religious persecution and
deliberate misrepresentation. Today it has to con-
tend with the rot of extreme postmodernism,
which is the principal cause of the tradition's cur-
rent obfuscation.
Postmodern thought is often misunderstood,
and the concept of pluralism—the recognition of
many contexts and the understanding that no one
context is privileged in and of itself—is often con-
fused with the absurd notion that every approach,
culture and tradition is commensurate and of
equal merit. In terms of magick, the purpose and
teachings of our magical heritage in the West has
been replaced with this extreme ethical standpoint,
and some magicians even claim that the Western
Tradition is actually a syncretic mish-mash of any
and all of the magical religions practiced in the
West. Is it any wonder we can't find a basic con-
sensus on what magick is?
Thankfully, as inconvenient as extreme post-
modernism may be, the truth of the matter doesn't
require a democracy, nor is the Western Tradition
simply a body of work that requires recovery. On
the contrary: direct, personal experience of its core
practice can teach us everything we need to know.
Therefore the fresh perspective on magick
presented here is the result of over a decade's per-

sonal research, experiment and revelation. The
fundamental purpose and practice of magick is the
same as it ever was, and so although this work ap-
pears to offer a new paradigm it should be noted
that this is nothing more than a timely rejuvena-
tion of the surface features of the Tradition,
something which has already occurred periodically
throughout magick's long and troubled history.
CHAOS M A G I C
The publication of Peter Carroll's Liber Null in 1978
ushered in the last revolution in the surface fea-
tures of magick, spawning a movement that even-
tually became known as 'Chaos Magic1'. With its
emphasis on practicality and on looking at what
actually 'works'. Liber Null was different to previ-
ous magical texts, in that for the first time a com-
monality of technique behind magical effects was
revealed.
However a subtle shift in focus came about as a
result of this experiment in reductionism. Magick
became the technology of using belief as a tool,
and any given world view could be command-
eered to provide personal satisfaction for the post-
modern magician.
The influence of Chaos Magic has been pervas-
ive, and present day occultism is essentially com-
prised of a handful of techniques endlessly re-
cycled and translated by fame hungry 'occult
1. For more o a Chaos Magic see Liber Null and Psychonaut and
Liber Kaos "by Peter CarroLl; Condensed. Chaos by Phil Hine; and
Chaotopia! b y Dave Lee.

stars', who actually believe they are offering trans-
formation for the masses. It is a testament to Car-
roll that these techniques can be found in the first
five pages of Liber Null. It is also telling of where
reduCtionism has led magick when we see that the
rest of Liber Null (which covers topics such as 'The
Great Work', morality, reincarnation and perman-
ent 'magical consciousness') is no longer con-
sidered magick at all.
Now, thirty years on, Chaos Magic (like much
of magical culture) has fallen prey to extreme post-
modernism. The Tradition has degenerated to such
an extent that many of its practitioners now claim
it is just a theory, despite the fact that it is clearly
synonymous with a body of work and an unques-
tionable aesthetic. Instead of attempting to under-
stand magick by discovering what the practice has
to offer through experience, these extreme postmod-
ern magicians deconstruct our rich and varied ma-
gical heritage to one correct answer ('all truth is relat-
ive'—except for their omniscient knowledge that
this is so) with the benefits of magical practice re-
duced to immediate material effect: 'I already know
everything magick has to offer—and anything else
that isn't a material result isn't magick'.
Before Chaos Magic came along the Western
Tradition was in danger of being lost behind a wall
of overly complex symbolism and antiquated mor-
ality, more or less existing as the pastime of ridicu-
lous armchair eccentrics. Chaos Magic breathed
new life into it, making it a practice once again,
and this time in a manner accessible to all. The
contribution of postmodern thought to Western

magical culture should therefore be celebrated.
Nevertheless, it is time to address the detriment of
extreme postmodernism. I hope this book will do
this through providing a new, revitalised expres-
sion of our magical heritage.
THE NEXT BIG T H I N G
Today, 'occult' no longer means 'hidden'. The tor-
ture and murder of magicians is now quite low on
the government's list of things to do. Although ma-
gick is still not accepted as a bone fide spiritual
discipline by the media at large, the number of
people investigating it as a valid world view is
evident from the steady growth of popular interest
in dumbed-down versions of magical traditions,
such as Rav Berg's Kabbalah, or the proliferation of
published works by the 'next generation' of young
magicians, where scholarship is considered inap-
propriate, sentimentalism rife and reasoning
power painfully absent. Yet this is not to be
mourned; for the occult as a commodity—just like
the popularisation of alien abductions, the return
of Buddha and increasingly complex crop circles—
is indicative of a growing trend towards a prolifer-
ation of magical thought in the public sphere, and
a re-orientatiori of Western culture towards the
esoteric.
At present, magick may incur ridicule—-this is
clearly demonstrated through the embarrassment
felt by the current occult scene towards the term it-
self. However this very embarrassment indicates
an increasing openness towards magical practice—

something that has never occurred before on such
a scale. Some feel that calling it 'a technology'
saves their blushes, but this is an unnecessary exer-
cise in finding public acceptance. Increasingly, the
word 'magick' is being used more and more in its
original sense. Ask yourself—do you think that our
forebears who were burnt at the stake would have
been embarrassed to call themselves 'magicians'?
SIGNING ON
Magick is now an opportunity for more people
than ever before.
This book is a sign-post.

1 . N O T H I N G U P M V SLEEVE
O R :
' W H A T T O EXPECT FROM MAGICK'
Below are the two most frequently asked ques-
tions about magick, with my answers.
Q: What is magick?
A: There isn't a man, woman or child on this
planet that does not know what magick is. Don't
ask silly questions.
Q: Does magick work?
A: No.
STILL READING?
The only way you will ever answer either of these
questions, to any degree of satisfaction, is to actu-
ally do some magick.
I can tell you what to expect: sometime after
you have performed a magical act, whether to
bring about a specific event, divine the future or
communicate with a spirit, the result will manifest
via the means available, and you will get exactly
what you ask for.

But then, I can tell a virgin what to expect from
sex, however that expectation is incapable of con-
veying a modicum of the experience, and can in no
way account for the effect of that experience upon
the self. It should also be noted that, just as in sex,
no one is good the first time they do magick, and it
takes a degree of practice before you can even be-
gin to do it properly.
Remember: failure means you need more prac-
tice. If the first time you hear music is at your first
piano lesson, would it not be a great folly to dis-
miss the idea that you might one day be a concert
pianist, or to refuse to even consider the existence
of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, based on the res-
ults of that lesson?
So what are the implications of the magical ex-
perience upon the self? Beyond performing the
odd ritual here and there, what can a novice expect
from a future as a practicing magician?
GETTING W H A T Y O U W A N T
Being a magician means you get to make wishes
that come true.
What you can experience through magick is lim-
ited only by your imagination.
How you experience a magical result is limited
only by the available means of manifestation.
Yes, you can use magick to obtain money, sex
and power; as such, these things will occur along
the lines of any other 'real' event, in the form of a
synchroriicity. For instance, if you do some niagick
to win some money, the next day you might visit a

betting shop, put some money on a horse and win.
But if you do some magick to 'fly like Superman',
you will no doubt experience the result via a
dream, because that is the available means by
which the result can manifest. Unless of course you
accidentally fall out of the 53rd floor window at
the office fancy dress party.
In the same sense, you can use magick to raise
the dead, summon demons and converse with
gods, so long as there is a means by which these
experiences can manifest. If you have no visionary
ability, and fail to provide a communication device
such as a pendulum or your best friend's body, the
conversation is going to be pretty much one way.
No doubt some newcomers to magick will be
disappointed to learn that magick will not allow
you to grow an extra five inches (erm, in height),
grant the ability to walk through walls or facilitate
the turning of people into frogs.
But the 'physical' or 'real' world is simply one
type of experience, and one means of materialisa-
tion amongst many. Dreaming is another type of
experience. Whether you experience something in
the 'real' world or in the 'dream' world makes no
difference; the immediate effect of the experience is
still the same. This may sound like a cop-out; but
the ability to cure cancer, change peoples' minds
and end the career of a murderer or rapist in the
'real' world isn't something to be sniffed at. You'll
also be glad to hear that if there is one thing you
will learn front magick, it is that what can manifest
in the 'real' world is probably far beyond what you
might expect.

The material manifestation of a desire is enough
for a lot of magicians, to the extent that some will
even say anything else simply isn't magick.
However, after your first successful act of ma-
gick, it is evident that magick offers...
REVELATION
The experience of a magical result will reveal
something very odd about the nature of reality.
This will have a transformative effect—your previ-
ous view of reality, and so yourself, must necessar-
ily change as a result of that experience. It follows
then that the more you do magick, the more you
will encounter revelation, and the more you will be
transformed.
It must be stressed that intellectual comprehen-
sion, or explanation, reveals or changes nothing. If
you want to know the truth, you must experience
it.
Magick is one way of experiencing truth.
CULTURE
It is often assumed that magick is simply a set of
techniques. However, any set of techniques (or be-
havior) must necessarily include sociological and
ethical implications, whether they are consciously
addressed or not.
As such, magick is a culture. What form your
magical culture takes depends on how you deal
with the plethora of questions that must be con-

fronted as a result of being able to bend reality, and
the increased exposure to revelation, for example:
Do I help people with my magick? The whole
community, close friends or just myself?
Do I evangelise magick, spouting its many vir-
tues to all and sundry at every given opportunity,
or do I practice it in secret?
Do I really want to maintain contact with my
supposed best friends, and my loving family, if
they fail to take my magick seriously, or supersti-
tiously spurn me for practicing 'the Black Arts',
without making the smallest amount of effort to
try and accept me for what I am?
Should I curse the crap out of that man that
gave me the beady eye, or his entire bloodline?
Should I find like-minded people for corrobora-
tion of experiences, the exchange of ideas, moral
su pport and a goddamn fun and exciting time?
Should I only dress in black, wear a top hat and
eyeliner, and call myself Dargon, High Priest of
Voodoo', or do I exhibit some taste?2
Of course, this is by no means the full extent of
the decisions you'll have to make as a budding ma-
gician.
THE CROSSROADS
If you do actually have a go at magick, sooner or
later you'll come to the crossroads3.
2. If yon come across someone who claims magick is nothing
more than a technology, ask him or her why they dress the
way they do.
3. Actually; it's more of a T-junction, but that doesn't quite
have the same ring to it, does it?

For a couple of years, my magical practice con-
sisted of messing around with sigils (a very easy
method of magick—see Chapter 3— Rub a sponge).
Eventually I reached a crossroads. The sign point-
ing to the left said: 'Quit dabbling with the occult,
and actually do something "serious" with your
life'; and to the right: 'Go all out, balls to the wall,
and dedicate your life to chasing the ideal of being
the greatest magician that has ever lived' (I have
no idea what that means, but I do know that if
you're not aiming to be the best you can be in any
serious endeavor, you need to ask yourself why
you're doing it).
I knew which road was right for me when I real-
ised that I would undoubtedly come across events
in my life that I knew for a fact 1 could change for the
better using magick. If it looked like I might not be
able to find the rent for next month by normal
means, I knew I could do some magick to ensure it
turned up. On a more serious note, what if
someone in my family developed a life-threatening
illness? How could I fail to resort to magick know-
ing that it works?
So there was no doubt about it—I couldn't leave
magick alone.
That was a decade ago, and at this point in my
life I no longer have an option of turning back. I've
irrevocably transformed my reality. That might
sound a little scary, and I suppose, at times, it is.
But the happiness it brings is overwhelming (and
thankfully more of an enduring feature).
Which brings me to a very important question:
is magick for everyone?

A lot of magicians in the media spotlight have
opted for magical evangelising. The attitude found
in many 'next generation' occult blogs and books
appears to assume that everyone would have a lot
of fun if they just had a go. I mean, come on, it's a
bit weird, but it's really easy and you'll have a
good laugh, right?
When 1 first began dabbling, I thought a lot of
what I read about the pitfalls of magick was a
touch melodramatic. But that was ok, because I
was a dabbler. When I became 'serious' about ma-
gick, I went out and found other 'serious' magi-
cians. I then watched a few of them go barking
mad.
Me, melodramatic?
Although the majority of magicians I've met
haven't lost their minds, and have no doubt gained
a certain amount of technical proficiency, very few
have actually gone on to make any progress in
terms of genuine magical development (by which I
mean undergoing revelatory experiences at the
metaphysical level of reality—see chapter 9). Ma-
gick requires a lot of hard work, and by its very
nature, is difficult to understand.
We have now reached the point where I can
safely be accused of being an elitist egomaniac. But
tell me this: would a brain surgeon be an elitist
egomaniac if he told you brain surgery is hard
work and very difficult to understand? Do you
think everyone has the aptitude and abilities re-
quired to perform brain surgery, safely and with
any degree of success?

Magick isn't for everyone, but everyone can
have a go. And just like brain surgery, things will
get rather messy at times.
If you do decide to become a magician, remem-
ber: magick is about taking responsibility for your
entire existence.
Are you up to it?

2 . ' I A M EXTERNAL!"
O R :
'THE PRACTICE O F THE MAGICAL DIARY'
Before we get down to the technical aspects of
practicing magick, we must first introduce the
use of the magical diary. It is traditional for the ma-
gician to write down every magical act, result and
experience in the magical diary, which functions as
a tool of encouragement, a scientific record and a
means of magical integration.
When I first started magick, I really couldn't see
the point. Considering the fact that as a magician I
would be indulging in the bizarre and the weird,
how likely is it that I'd forget an act of magick, its
results or any mind-bending states of mind that
might crop up? Furthermore, who cares if you for-
get a magical act or experience?
Of course, I'd already decided what the process
of maintaining a magical diary had to offer. A
couple of years down the line, realising my arrog-
ance, I went and bought a suitably fancy journal,
and got stuck into recording my magical activity.

FOR SHAME
At first, I struggled to write everything down. This
wasn't because I did so much magick, but because
every time I opened my diary, the blank pages
seemed to take pleasure in reminding me of how
lazy I am.
I can say, without a shadow of a doubt, that if I
did not keep a diary, my daily magical practice
would tail off to perhaps once a week. Back then,
maybe once a month.
Maintaining a magical diary actually makes you
a more powerful and accomplished magician for
this reason alone.
READ ALL A B O U T IT
Besides its function as a goad, the diary is first and
foremost a record. A written record of methods
used, and results obtained, gives the magician the
ability to improve future results, through the eval-
uation of those methods used in the past. It also
renders visible any predilections for certain meth-
ods the magician might have, to be used either as
an indicator of a potential specialisation, or as a
sign that it is high time the magician expanded his
or her repertoire and had a go at some other field
of magical practice. It should also be noted that
today's slightly insignificant but odd occurrence is
tomorrow's mind-bending synchronicity; if you
don't write it down, you may miss something very
important.

SPECIAL
In terms of revelatory results, the diary serves a
very special function.
The moment of experiencing revelation is a mo-
ment of experiencing truth. It makes no difference
that once the revelation is over, it will eventually
be succeeded by another revelation, for the words
you use to describe any revelation are not the rev-
elation itself. Truth is not knowable—it is in the ex-
perience.
This is best illustrated by someone tripping on
LSD, who writes down what at the time is an ex-
tremely profound thought, only to discover, once
sober, that it reads: 'I am external!' (and it's spelt
incorrectly!). This sentence is far from profound;
however, the experience that prompted the sen-
tence certainly was.
Practicing magick will ensure your diary is dot-
ted with many descriptions of such experiences;
however, the aim of the game is to record the
method used (if any), any pertinent conditions and
a description of the state itself. Any incredible ex-
clamations, such as 'I exist and do not exist simul-
taneously!' are to be recorded as symptomatic of
the state, for example; 'whilst in this state I felt as
though I both existed and did not exist at the same
time.'
It is only through the description of the experi-
ence that we can come to understand that experi-
ence in a rational and useful manner. This is espe-
dally important when it comes to states of con-
sciousness outside of the everyday trance.

Whilst you might develop a little mind control
cult of your own by cheerfully informing everyone
you meet 'I both exist and do not exist', you could
only be accused of validating the existence of a
state of consciousness where different rules of cog-
nition apply, and providing a tried and tested
method of experiencing that state, by refusing to
give any validity to anything beyond the descrip-
tion of the experience itself.
This ensures that any such revelatory experi-
ence will not be left to gather dust in a folder
marked 'obscure memory' in some dark recess of
your mind, just like the time you took LSD and
thought you understood the nature of reality. In-
deed, your diary is the means of integrating such
experiences, in a rational and sane manner, into
your life.
It is true that a description is not the revelation
itself. But the more revelations the magician exper-
iences, and the richer the integration of those ex-
periences, then the greater the flexibility of the ha-
bitual self, which in turn increases the probability
of revelation occurring.
The practice of the magical diary is a catalyst for
the transformation of the self.
EXERCISE 1
Write down every act of magick: that you do, in-
cluding the actual method used, and the results ob-
tained.
Should you need one, here is an example of a
diary entry, with a suggested format:

Date Time Activity
12/03/2008 14.21pm Sigil method
Description
Created a sigil from the statement 'I will find
my house keys'. Used concentration practice
for gnosis. Found it difficult to forget the sigil
afterwards, but this didn't take as long as last
time.
A later diary entry might read:
13/03/2008 10.00am Result from
sigil on
12/03/2008
David just phoned—said he'd found a set of
keys in the back of his car, and wondered if
they were mine!


3 . R U B A SPONGE
OR:
'AN INTRODUCTION TO MAGICK'
Ask a magician to show you some magick and
they will invariably show you how to make a
sigil and 'charge' it4.
This is known as sigil magick, it's incredibly
easy and a good place for the beginner to start.
PENSIONER MAGICK
The method of sigilisation consists of writing out a
desire, omitting repeated letters then arranging the
remainder into an arbitrary, abstract glyph. The
magician then enters a state of great excitement or
cairn, by such methods as hyperventilation, medit-
ation, flagellation or other pain inducing practices,
dancing or entheogenic consumption; but the most
popular method (for obvious reasons) is sex. At the
4. This is especially true of magicians who like to 'work alone'.
Substitute 'charge' with 'have a warik' arid you have their rais-
es d'etre for remaining a solitary magician. Unless they like it
when you watch.

peak of the altered state (this would be orgasm in
the case of sex) the sigil is visualised or looked at,
and then forgotten about.
Sometime after the act, the desire will manifest
in the form of a synchronicity; so if your desire is 'I
will get laid', you might find yourself hounded by
a rotund monster at a party, who manages to
corner you in the bathroom as your friends sud-
denly disappear.
Which brings me nicely to my next point (that
last story never happened by the way). The gospel
is: 'you get what you ask for'. So when you state
your desire, do not say: 'I want to have sex'. You
will simply find yourself working instantaneous
magick (i.e. you will want to have sex). You need to
state what you actually want to occur—like: 'I will
win at the races'. It pays to be specific—for in-
stance, '1 will have sex with a beautiful lady'
would have been a more prudent example than 'I
will get laid'.
EXERCISE 2
1. Write down a desire.
2. Create a sigil by omitting repeated letters, and
then arranging the remainder into an arbitrary,
abstract glyph.
3. Masturbate.
4. At the point of orgasm, visualise the sigil.
5. Torget about it.
6. Record the result in your diaTy.

How long it will take for the desire to manifest var-
ies, but in my experience it's usually the next day
or so.
And that's sigil magick!
SEX W I T H STATIONERY
Everything I have said so far, however, is old hat. It
is both amusing and very sad that no one has ad-
vanced the technique of sigilisation for almost a
century.
Ask yourself: is there a secret mechanism to
how magick works? Is there an unfathomable mys-
tery hidden in the omission of repeated letters? Do
you really believe in a Cosmic Committee for Cor-
rect Sigilisation Process?
Fuck the pen and paper.
EXERCISE 3
1. Think of something you want to occur. Men-
tally state it.
2. Now randomly create, using your imagina-
tion, an abstract glyph.
3. Decide that the glyph represents that state-
ment. You have a sigil.
4. Go and 'charge' it, and wait for the result.
5. Record the outcome.
Finished? Now try this:

3 2 ADVANCED MAGICK FOR BEGINNERS
EXERCISE 4
1. Think of something you want, but make sure it
is not the same desire you chose for Exercise
2. Mentally state it.
3. Remember the sigil you created for the first ex-
ercise? Visualize the same sigil, but now de-
cide that the sigil represents this statement5.
4. 'Charge' it and wait for the result.
5. Record the outcome.
Hmmm. Could this mean that what we use to rep-
resent our desire is arbitrary? And what does this
say about the sigilisation process, and therefore
magick itself?
SECRET CHIEF DANCING BEAR
It doesn't stop with glyphs; instead of a geometric
doodle, you could use a number, or a combination
of numbers. Or how about a word, nonsensical or
otherwise?
What if we decide that a gesture represents your
desire instead, like a wave of the hand? Or some
other physical movement, like a dance? What if we
decide that a certain dance means it will rain? You
didn't think that really worked, did you?
5. Experience has shown that you can even get someone else to
decide what your sigil means, and it still works. For more on
this, investigate Remote Viewing.

EXERCISE 5
1. Open a book at a random page, and select the
first three words from a random sentence.
2. Think of something you want to occur. Men-
tally state it.
3. Decide that those three words mean the same
thing as your statement.
4. Masturbate, and at the point of orgasm, state
those three words (whether mentally or out
loud is u p to you).
5. Record the result.
EXERCISE 6
1. Invent a dance (this can be as simple or as
complex as you like—from a simple swaying
motion to a full-blown routine).
2. Think of something you want to occur. Men-
tally state it.
3. Decide that the dance means the same thing as
your statement (you can do this by saying
your statement out loud just before step 4—
this is sometimes known as a ''statement of in-
tent').
4. Dance for ten minutes (or longer if you just
can't help yourself).
5. Record the result.

W H I T E V A N M A N
Everything so far, although capable of delivering
the goods, isn't really... exciting, is it? I mean, how
corny is a rain dance? And after your 103rd sigil,
the fun in imagining a couple of lines and a
squiggle tends to wane a little, doesn't it?
What would happen if you stated your desire,
then decided that whatever you did immediately
after meant the same thing as the statement? What
would happen if you could do anything, so long as
you decide what it means, and you get your result
regardless of method?
I'll tell you what—you become an artist. The
emphasis shifts from anxiety over results to aes-
thetic consideration. What's stopping you? You can
make your magick funny, witty or serious; ecstatic,
absurd or deranged; profound or delirious.
Want to get laid? Why not cover yourself in jam
and stick photos of attractive ladies or gentlemen
to yourself?
Got a disease? Rub a sponge on the affected
area, and then throw it off the top of a rollercoaster.
You can even make yourself rich by baking your
credit card in a butter cream layer cake, and have a
tasty treat to boot!
EXERCISE 7
1. Think of something that you want to occur.
2. Invent a ritual. This can be absolutely any-
thing at all, b u t if you need somewhere to
start, obtain items to use as representations of

the people or objects involved with your de-
sired outcome, and act out that outcome. For
instance, if your desire is 'S.M. will change her
mind and decide to give me the pay rise I
asked for', you might use an inflated balloon
to represent her head, which you pop as a rep-
resentation of her 'changing her mind'.
3. Decide that your ritual means the same thing
as your statement (again, you can do this by
simply saying your statement out loud before
step 4).
4. Perform the ritual.
5. Record the experiment.
W H A T THE HELL DOES A L L O F THIS M E A N ?
Let me tell you:
Magick is an art because it has no laws, only ar-
bitrary aesthetics that dictate method (as long as
you decide what an experience means, you can do
anything, and it works).
Magick is a science because it has methodology
(however arbitrary), with results that can be cor-
roborated by peers through independent enquiry
(just like you did, when you performed the exer-
cises).
Magick is a culture because it has implicit social
and ethical considerations (now you know that it
works, what will you do with it? How has it
changed your relationship with the world?)

Magicians (in their various guises) have always
strived to understand 'how' magick works so that
they might be able to do it 'correctly'. But whenev-
er a magician wonders 'what is the correct method
of getting a result?' they are falling victim to the
fog of simplicity—because what you do, and the
result you get, is your decision. There are no laws
(unless you create them) and there are no secrets
(unless you pretend).
So if magick is limited only by your imagina-
tion, just how beautiful will you make your ma-
gick? How ecstatic? Will magick be the most fun
you've ever had in my life, or just the reason your
wrist aches?

4 . IN T H E B E G I N N I N G W A S T H E W O R D
O R :
' H o w T o D o MAGICK'
Here's a fundamental instruction in perform-
ing any act of magick:
1. Decide what you want to occur.
2. Ensure that what you want to occur has a
means of manifestation.
3. Choose an experience.
4. Decide that the experience means the same
thing as what you want to occur.
5. Perform the act / undergo the experience.
6. Result.
Examples of specific magical acts, such as sigilisa-
tion, divination, sympathetic magick, possession,
evocation and other unspeakable depravities, will
be given in the following chapters, all within the
glorious context of this arbitrary outline.


5 . M E T H O D T o T H E M A D N E S S
O R :
'THE FALLACY O F MAGICAL LAW'
Arbitrary magical methods (such as sigilisa-
tion) are frequently mistaken for absolute ma-
gical laws. As I have already outlined in chapter 3,
it must be stressed that no method or technique is
essential to magick.
In this chapter, I will discuss four common
methods that are frequently mistaken for magical
laws. However, as arbitrary methods, we are not to
regard them as superfluous or useless; rather, they
are to be considered aesthetically. How much fun
can you get out of using them? As 'game rules',
how well do they promote or encourage magical
invention?
THE SYMPATHETIC M E T H O D
From cave paintings of a successful hunt to your
ex's head on a dartboaid, the belief in 'like causing
like' is perhaps as old as Marn himself. Sympathetic
magick is wonderful for encouraging or develop-

ing magical innovation. For instance, if you
wanted to get rid of your boss, do you acquire a set
of action figures and play out an office drama of
what you want to happen? Or do you draw a little
picture of him, chew it up and spit it out of your
office window?
To be crude, it is true that 'like causes like', but
it is also true that 'unlike causes like'. Consider the
use of the nonsensical sigil as outlined in chapter 3.
It is painfully obvious, even after the most cursory
consideration of the concept of similarity, that to
equate two things is a decision made by the magi-
cian. Do you think there is a Universal Similarity
Department, run by a crack team of elemental in-
spectors, who will descend upon the doodle of
your boss to measure how well you've captured
his likeness?
Just as similarity is a decision, so is the meaning
of an event. Whether it's playing with action men,
or slapping yourself on the forehead with a ba-
nana, if you decide the experience means your
boss will bugger off, then he will. You just need to
make the decision, and perform the action.
A magical act does not need to be sympathetic to
the desired result in order for it to work.
THE MAGICAL LINK M E T H O D
If you are going to be performing an act of magick
that involves working directly on a person, then
traditionally you are going to need what is com-
monly referred to as a magical link. This takes the
form of some kind of genetic material (such as hair,

Mood or nail clippings) or an object that belongs to
lhat person (such as a toothbrush or item of jew-
ellery). Alternatively, you can create an object with-
in a ritual that can then be put into contact with the
person, such as a powder sprinkled across his or
her path (commonly used in African / Caribbean
sorcery) or in the form of a gift, such as a soft toy.
It is often stated that you cannot work effective
magick without the magical link.
But isn't it possible to work magick on a person,
say with a sigil, just by writing his or her name?
And what about the example used previously un-
der the sympathetic method, where a picture is
drawn of a person?
The truth is, with magick, you get what you ask
for. If you know someone's name, and include it in
your stated desire, such as 'Mary Higginbottom
will be cured of her chicken pox', you will get that
result.
The trouble comes when you consider the fact
that there is more than one Mary Higginbottom in
the world. Granted, it isn't very likely that you'll
suddenly come across a different Mary Higginbot-
tom who has just recovered from chicken pox, and
it is also true that a little tweaking of the statement
of intent, such as including her address, will en-
sure a better result. However, the traditional ma-
gical link does avoid writer's cramp, and is also in-
dispensable when it comes to working accurate
magick on someone you do not know (for instance,
to affect a thief that regularly steals cash out of a
shop register, you could leave a ritually 'charged'

coin or banknote in the till, to form the link for the
desired magical result).
Yes, you can have a traditional magical link, but
it only serves as part of an accurate magical de-
cision. Whether a part of that magical decision in-
volves a six page physical description of a person,
a very bad likeness in biro, or a toenail clipping is
immaterial, so long as you remember you will get
exactly what you have asked for.
A magical act does not need a traditional magic-
al link in order to have an effect on a person.
THE GNOSIS M E T H O D
A very recent 'indispensable' magical technique to
hit the occult scene is the idea of gnosis. First men-
tioned in Liber Null, gnosis is used to describe any
altered state of consciousness induced through a
wide variety of activities (see chapter 3 for a list of
these activities).
It is true that gnosis works as a magical tech-
nique, with many reasons given for its efficacy,
from allowing a desire to be 'buried' within the
subconscious, which is (apparently) where a desire
needs to go in order to bear fruit; all the way to in-
creasing the amount of energy available to 'put
into' a desire, thereby enhancing its manifestation.
However, although gnosis is often considered
common to all magical traditions, many
African/Caribbean approaches (such as Quim-
banda) do not use altered states of consciousness6
6. Possession does riot require the person being possessed, or
'the horse', to enter a traace, although being possessed is cer-

in order to work magick. Of course, we don't need
lo examine such traditions for evidence of the ar-
bitrary nature of gnosis; we simply need to con-
aider the efficacy of the sympathetic method.
Gnosis is not necessary for magick, but it is one
method. So how might we best understand gnosis
•ilongside other methods that do not use altered
•.lutes of consciousness?
It goes without saying that gnosis can be used
in your magick as part of a chosen aesthetic, such
.is the subconscious or energy models mentioned
. i hove. Like any other magical act, it does what you
decide it does within the ritual.
But it is bliridingly obvious that you can enter
an altered state, 'charge' a sigil, and get a result,
without even being aware of any explanation, or
working within an aesthetic such as the subcon-
scious or energy models.
Independent from artistic considerations then,
let's consider what is actually experienced during a
ritual using gnosis.
Gnosis, or an altered state of consciousness,
only becomes part of a magical act at the moment
you undergo the experience you have decided
means the same thing as your desire. In other
words, at the moment you experience the visual-
isation of the sigil or the chosen action.
What occurs here is exactly the same as what
occurs during sympathetic magick; you decide
what an experience will mean, then you undergo
that experience.
tainly a different state of consciousness (if the horse is con-
scious at all).

There is no difference between the experience of
a visualised sigil, and the experience of sticking
pins in a doll, if you have decided they both mean
the same thing. However, you don't need gnosis to
make the doll work.
So why do you need gnosis to work a sigil?
Actually it isn't necessary, but when you first
start practicing magick, you need a little help over-
coming a mental habit that very rarely poses a
problem when performing a physical action. If you
create a sigil and visualise it, you will discover that
you must make an effort to resist desiring the out-
come of the visualisation. It is very easy to change
the experience of visualising the sigil into a differ-
ent experience from the one previously decided.
As an example, say you've created a sigil that
means: 'I will win some money'.
Instead of undergoing this experience: I will
win some money (which is what the experience of
your visualised sigil means), you undergo this ex-
perience: I hope this sigil works. Beginners are
rarely aware that they are deciding to experience
the latter instead of the former, and that the key to
magick lies in what you experience.
Hoping a sigil works is still an act of magick—it
just has instantaneous results (i.e. you experience
the hope that your sigil works).
Gnosis, as part of a magical process, can be seen
as an environment conducive to experiencing men-
tal phenomena in exactly the same way as physical
phenomena, with the same mental attitude, say, of
moving your legs, or throwing a ball.

In light of the above, it makes sense that gnosis
is usually described as a state of 'being without de-
sire'.
Gnosis helps you experience your chosen de-
cision, but gnosis is not necessary in order to ex-
perience that decision.
A magical act does not need gnosis in order to
work.
THE AMNESIA M E T H O D
This method usually goes hand in hand with sigil-
isation. After the act, you make a willed effort to
forget the act, and the sigil.
In the subconscious aesthetic, this ensures the
desire remains in the subconscious, where it will
come to fruition.
This is the only explanation I've ever come
across for the amnesia method, but even if you are
not working with the subconscious aesthetic, ex-
perience has shown that forgetting your magical
act helps to ensure your desire will manifest.
Many of the criticisms made earlier concerning
gnosis are applicable here. Although amnesia is
helpful, especially for the beginner, it is not essen-
tial in making your magick work, and is usually
not applicable when you've used a method that
rests solely on a physical experience, such as the
sympathetic approach.
What happens when you remember an act of
magick?
Remembering a magical act or experience is
similar to the beginner visualising a sigil without

gnosis. You will tend to create an instant magical
result: you hope your magick works.
You revert from your original experience (the
sigil or act, meaning 'I will win some money') to
the experience: 'I hope I win some money' or 'I
hope my magick works'.
To hope or wish is the qualification that you do not
have what you want. You cannot have your chosen
experience, and the unintentional experience
(which is the desire for your chosen experience), at
the same time. When you desire, you are making a
magical decision and so an instant magical result,
although, as a beginner, you are unaware that you
are doing so.
With time and practice, it will become possible
to remember the magical act without working ma-
gick against yourself. Of course, it is a lot harder to
desire the outcome of a magical act when the
memory of what you actually did makes you wet
yourself with laughter.
A magical act does not need to be forgotten in
order for it to work.
OK...
So now we know that some of the more popular
'magical laws' are not essential to performing an
act of magick. In order to understand how these
'magical laws' fit in with the instruction given in
chapter 4, over the next page there's a table with
examples of how you might perform a magical act
to get your boss to resign, using the arbitrary
methods we've discussed.

So: what are you waiting for?
EXERCISE 8
1. Bearing the outline in mind, create and per-
form four rituals using the first four methods
given in the table overleaf, without perform-
ing the fifth.
2. Record the results.

Outline Sympathetic
method
Gnosis 1 sigil
method
1. Decide what you
want to occur.
My manager will
resign
My manager will
resign
2. Ensure that what
you want to occur
has a means of mani-
festation.
I do have a man-
ager and there is
the possibility for
him to resign.
I do have a man-
ager and there is
the possibility for
him to resign.
3. Choose an experi-
ence.
Chewing up a pic-
ture of my man-
ager and spitting it
out of the window
The visualisation
of an abstract
glyph
4. Decide that the
experience means the
same thing as what
you want to occur.
Chewing up a pic-
ture of my man-
ager and spitting it
out of the window
means my man-
ager will resign
The writing out of
step 1, the removal
of repeating letters
and the construc-
tion of an abstract
glyph out of what
remains (alternat-
ively, you could
just decide any ab-
stract glyph means
the same thing as
step 1)
5. Perform the
act/undergo the ex-
perience.
Chew up a picture
of your manager
and spit it out of
the window
While in gnosis,
visualise the sigil
then block all
memory of the sigil
out of your mind
until he's buggered
off.
6. Result. Within a
d a y / w e e k / month?
Within a
day J week J month?

Magical link
method
Nonsensical ma-
gical act
The magical act of
desiring
My manager will
resign
My manager will
resign
I hope my manager
will resign.
1 do have a man-
ager and there is
the possibility for
him to resign.
I do have a man-
ager and there is
the possibility for
him to resign.
I do have a man-
ager and there is
the possibility for
him to resign.
Throwing my man-
ager's pen out of
the window
Tying a shoe to a
tree, running
round it three
times, then spitting
on it
My immediate ex-
perience
Throwing my man-
ager's pen, which
is magically linked
to him, out of the
office window
means my man-
ager will resign
Tying a shoe to a
tree, running
round it three
times, then spitting
on it, means my
manager will
resign
What I am experi-
encing now means
I hope my manager
will resign
Throw your man-
ager's pen out of
the window-
Tie your shoe to a
tree, run round it
three times and
then spit on it
This was already
happening at step
2; it is due to this
that it is difficult to
realise that being
in a state of desire
is an act of magick
—with an instant-
aneous result
Within a
«Uiy/ week/ month?
Within a
d a y / w e e k / m o n t h ?
The result has
already manifested


6 . A M O D E L M A G I C I A N
O R :
' H o w T o BELIEVE'
Apopular aesthetic in occultism at the moment
s science. Making magick look scientific is
easy:
1. Come up with an explanation for how magick
works and call it 'a model' or 'theory' (for in-
stance, Chaos Magic becomes Chaos Magic
Theory, or the belief in spirits is referred to as
'the Spirit Model').
2. Abbreviate the name of your explanation, and
where possible any techniques or methods too
(for instance, Chaos Magic Theory becomes
CMT).
3. Describe your explanation or model using al-
gebra and mathematics.
4. Reference scientific principles from a branch of
science (such as quantum mechanics) in your
rituals.

5. Describe magick using scientific jargon and
terminology (magick is 'a technology', or an
act of 'meta-programming').
There are many more methods, such as referring to
magical texts as 'papers', but I'm sure you can
come up with further examples should you wish to
work with the scientific aesthetic.
Remember: the scientific aesthetic is not the
same thing as the scientific method. As stated earli-
er, we can apply the scientific method to magick
(and it must be applied for it to be science), but the
scientific method is not the current culture of sci-
ence. Dressing in a white lab coat, using specialist
jargon to describe the scientific method, or invest-
ing belief in the current favourite theory or model
for quantum effects, does not make you a scientist.
However, just because something is an aesthetic
doesn't mean it is 'wrong' or useless. The question
isn't 'is it correct?' but 'does making my magick
look "scientific" float my boat?'
CULTURE VULTURE
Beyond culture then, to what extent are explana-
tions or models useful for the magician?
It has often been assumed that working with
different models of magick is beneficial to the ma-
gician, as it demonstrates the arbitrary nature of
any viewpoint, and allows the magician to use be-
lief as a tool for creating magical effects. This is re-
ferred to as 'belief shifting'.

However, there is a big difference between us-
ing a belief or model, and adopting a belief as an
explanation.
Explanation provides an intellectual under-
standing of a subject. It changes nothing but the in-
tellectual viewpoint of the person adopting the ex-
planation. This is evident by the ease at which you
can change your mind and adopt a new explanation,
and the reason why so many people talk about
conditioning and yet act exactly the same as every-
one else.
Preferring one explanation to another for a
couple of weeks is not belief shifting.
If you wish to change your experience or view-
point, then you need to actually experience a dif-
ferent viewpoint or model, as an aesthetic within a
magical act.
For a model to be of any use at all it must cease
being an explanation and become an actual event.
Chapter 4 tells you how to do this in terms of the
arbitrary ritual outline, but a much simpler way is
literally to say that if you want to make an idea or
belief true, you need simply to act on it.
The act is the experience of the belief. The act
makes the belief true.
Just for clarification, the act is steps 3 to 5 of the
ritual outline.
Of course, you may protest that you don't delib-
erately decide that an action means the same thing
as your belief, nor do you ponder what experience
you are going to use, when you perform an action.
You just do it.

This is true, and this is where the ritual outline
becomes cumbersome and largely unnecessary
beyond making the magical act explicit.
A WONDERFUL W O R L D
If all you need to do is act on a belief to make it
true, then if you want to live in a happy, wonderful
world, all you need to do is act like you live in a
happy, wonderful world. This can be anything
from a full-blown ritual act to something as simple
as telling yourself the world is a fun, good place to
be.
Of course, just saying this once won't change
much—try it, and see how fast you revert back to
thinking and acting as if the world isn't a happy,
wonderful place. In order to work magick on the
self effectively you must replace the habitual ma-
gick that you do everyday with new habitual ma-
gick. This means repetition.
Although I've said that all you need to do to
make a belief true is to act on it, please do not
think that if you believe you can fly, then jumping
off a tall building will make it so; remember step 2
of the ritual outline. Ensure there is a means of
manifestation for the belief. For a belief to manifest
in the material world, it must be within the game
rules of the material world. Humans do not fly.
Humans can, however, remake themselves as
they see fit. It's possible to ditch a crappy world
view for a good orie; swap depression for joy; pess-
imism for optimism; or anxiety for peace.

EXERCISE 9
1 Tell yourself you are stupid, ugly, and no one
likes you.
2 Do it everyday for two weeks.
,1 Record the results.
EXERCISE 10
1 Tell yourself you are intelligent, attractive and
everyone loves you.
2 Do it everyday for two weeks.
' Record the results.
( ompare the results from exercise 9 with those of
exercise 10. Choose one for life.
BUT I LIKE ARGUING D O W N THE PUB
If your reality rests solely on the magical act, and
so you can change your experience as you see fit,
then any viewpoint or belief is true at the moment
you experience it.
To argue about 'how magick actually works', as
if the truth is not in the experience itself, is indicat-
ive of a failure to understand magick.
An example of this is the ubiquitous debate on
the occult scene as to the true nature of spirits, usu-
ally taking the form of a discussion around 'are
they real', versus 'are they just amplified parts of
my psychology?' If you decide to interact with a

god and do so, but then go down the pub to tell
your friends you believe gods are simply parts of
your personality, you have failed to understand
that the truth is in the experience. You may believe
gods are part of your psychology, but belief only
becomes genuine when it is experienced.
If you want to work with the different parts of
your psyche, then take up psychotherapy and
work with them. This is still magick—you have
chosen a belief and acted upon it. This isn't an ar-
gument for a preferred model, but an emphasis on
experiencing belief, whatever that belief may be.
Don't work with a spirit, and then dismiss the
truth of your experience and deny the fact that
your reality is your decision, by claiming spirits are
something other than spirits.
EXERCISE 11
1. Do not wait for the 'correct' explanation before
doing any magick.
2. Whether in a ritual space or not, choose a be-
lief, and act on it (Choose a belief that doesn't
necessitate hurting or killing anyone; believing
that your mother has been replaced by an alien
bent on world domination also isn't very
healthy. A good example might be deciding to
believe in God, and acting on it by going to
church or praying everyday).
3. Change your beliefs frequently (for instance,
once you do believe in God, become a rational
Buddhist and take u p Yipassana).

7 . W H A T ' S I N A N A M E ?
O R :
'MAGICAL MOTTOS A N D OATHS'
One of the most misunderstood and largely un-
dervalued magical acts is the adoption of a
magical name, as is customary in the Western tra-
dition of magick. In the past this has been taken
very seriously by secret magical societies, as it
sometimes is today, but usually for the wrong reas-
ons. It is common to be attracted to magick simply
for the fun of magical culture—dressing up in ex-
travagant robes, speaking archaic barbarous words
in a booming voice, meeting u p in dark, secret
places with fellow conspirators against the norm,
and announcing yourself as Prometheon the Grand
A.rch Master of the Pyramid. Magick attracts the
pretentious like flies to shit, and Lord knows there
are too many ham magicians out there who take
themselves too damn seriously.
With postmodernism came Chaos Magic and
Discordianism, and the advent of the humorous
magical name—after all, magick doesn't need to be
serious in order for it to work, does it? Prometheon

became Potatoface the Slowly Reclining, and ma-
gick became a bit of a laugh. Magick also attracts
yahoos like flies to shit, and there are too many
ham magicians out there who think themselves too
damn funny.
GET OVER IT
So is the magical name more than just a device for
hamming it up?
Once we get past the allure of magical culture, a
magical name or motto serves a very specific and
irrefutable magical function, and the funny or seri-
ous nature of a name bears this out. The magical
name is the sum of the magician's approach, un-
derstanding and experience of magick. It is im-
possible for it to be anything else.
At first, when magick is novel and fun, a name
may be chosen that sounds whacky or outrageous,
like Frater Fabulous or Soror Sandwichmaster7. Or
perhaps it may be recognised early on that magick
is a developmental process, and so a name that ac-
knowledges the anticipation of the arrival of a
truly magical identity is adopted—like Frater Void
or Soror Unnamed. It may be that magick is taken
very seriously indeed and a name is created using
Qaballah—this will inevitably produce a name re-
miniscent of those favoured by Victorian secret so-
cieties, like Frater Yechidah or Soror I.A.O.
7. Frater and Soror are l a t i n for 'Brother' and 'Sister' respect-
ively.

DEED POLL
I performed an act of magick to generate my first
magical name, which isn't surprising considering I
was of the opinion that magick should be divorced
from conscious deliberation. The result was my ap-
pearance in a friend's dream, holding what she de-
scribed as a 'festooned stick'. I took the name Fes-
toon—suitably strange, and indicative of the fact
that I wasn't yet aware of my true magical nature
—I was covered, or 'festooned', with my everyday
personality, so to speak.
As my approach to magick changed and my ex-
perience deepened, so too did my name and its
meaning. My magical motto became much more
specific to my emerging nature, as I discovered my
purpose in life in light of a series of intense Holy
Guardian Angel workings (see chapter 14). But this
isn't always the case with every magician—some
magicians start off serious, only to lighten up and
adopt a more relaxed and fun approach to magick.
Some magicians don't change their approach at all
and remain with the same persona for their entire
magical career. Some magical orders require a
change of magical name with each grade attained,
but this doesn't necessarily indicate a revolution in
magical attitude or approach. Whatever the cir-
cumstances of your adopted magical persona,
there is no escaping the fact that the magical name
determines who you are as a magician, and it
should at least be acknowledged that the identity
you have chosen is an act of magick preformed on
the self.

If you choose a superficial and bonkers magical
name, what does that say about your attitude to
magick in general? Do you think this approach is
indicative of the fact you're only dabbling with
magick?
If you choose an intellectual or symbolically
complex magical name, do you think perhaps your
expectations of magick are woefully off the mark?
Are you being pretentious?
How do you see yourself developing in a ma-
gical sense? Do you have a plan, and what name
might express this aspiration best?
EXERCISE 12
1. Devise and adopt a magical name you are
comfortable with, using the means you find
most suitable.
2. Once created, investigate what the name says
about your approach, perception and under-
standing of magick. Record the results from
adopting this name (this will be ongoing).
3. Revise your magical name as and when neces-
sary.
THE MAGICAL O A T H
Picture the scene: a shadowy chamber lit by
candlelight, swirling incense smoke, a robed and
hooded assembly; the glint of sharp steel as a blade
is pressed against the throat of a bound and naked
young man. The subject of this terrible ordeal re-

peats the words spoken to him by the looming fig-
ure holding the dagger, swearing by his very soul
to keep silent about the group's activities and the
identities of its members, over penalty of unspeak-
able torture and death.
Six months later, the young man receives an e-
mail informing him he can no longer come to the
pub with the Order of the Massive Serpent, be-
cause he posted one of their rituals on an internet
site without asking first.
Torture and death indeed.
POKED W I T H A STICK
You could be forgiven for thinking that the above
is just one more example of the predictable histri-
onics of the magical scene—a lofty, portentous oath
is sworn in blood only to result in no longer being
friends.
However, the magical oath is generally just as
much misunderstood and undervalued as the ma-
gical name. While it is true that to all appearances
the actuality of breaking the typical occult group
oath results in nothing like the punishments prom-
ised, it should be borne in mind that a magical
oath engenders a magical result. It is foolish to take
the apparent profane events surrounding the
breaking of a magical oath as either the success or
failure of the oath, if those events are not exactly
what were asked far.
The magical oath binds the magician to a
chosen future—and the truly magical oath of a
group or order will have the exact magical con-

sequences it states, regardless of the apparent 'ac-
tual' events that occur when the oath is broken.
It cannot be stressed too strongly—be careful
what you agree to, because just like the magical
name, to take an oath is to perform an act of ma-
gick on yourself!
DEBT
Of course, the magical oath can be taken for all
kinds of reasons, not just group affiliation. You can
swear to stop certain habits and implement new
ones; to highly achieve at an event or as the result
of a certain activity; to radically alter your world
view; or to devote your life to a specific cause.
When I was a young and naive magician I at-
tempted and failed to make magick a part of my
day-to-day life to such an embarrassing extent that
I decided to take a magical oath to remedy the situ-
ation. Just like magical names, the efficacy of an
oath is not dependent on how humorous, preten-
tious or cheesy the magician might be.
Still very much seduced by turn-of-the-twenti-
eth-century magical culture, I signed my name in a
suitably dramatic fashion to the following oath as
recorded in my magical diary:
I solemnly swear to I.A.O. that I will attain to
Godhead; I further put myself at the disposal of
the Secret Chiefs, and swear to play my part in
the initiation of mankind. Witness my hand:
[Signed A. Chapman J

A few good joints later and the oath was con-
veniently forgotten. Imagine my surprise almost a
decade later when the 'Secret Chiefs' actually came
to collect on my promise...
EXERCISE 13
1. Very carefully consider devising and signing a
magical oath. The oath can be as cheesy, hu-
morous, pretentious or as tasteful as you like.
However, be flippant at your own risk.
2. Record the results.


8 . G O T Y O U R N U M B E R
O R :
THE QUALITATIVE PRACTICALITY OF SYMBOLISM IN RITUAL
Before the advent of Chaos Magic, the Western
magician was expected to study and memorise
a vast symbolic language composed from various
magical sources—such as the Egyptian, Hermetic
and Alchemical schools—before being taught any
practical magick. This tended to make magick a
somewhat intellectual pursuit within many of the
Victorian magical orders, with the majority of clas-
sical practitioners appearing mostly all mouth and
no trousers.
After Chaos Magic, with the bare bones of prac-
tical sorcery made available in any good bookshop
and presented in a manner any half-wit could im-
plement, the emphasis previously placed on sym-
bolism was left looking rather misplaced. For ex-
ample, why bother memorising the various
columns of Crowley's 777 before even attempting
some actual magick, when most 'real world' ma-
gical results can be gained through the use of a
simple sigil?

BEND OVER
Nothing teaches quite like direct experience. The
sooner the magician gets down to practicing ma-
gick, no matter how easy, boring or simple the
technique employed, the better. Chaos Magic has
certainly done the Western magical world a great
service in this respect. But as we know, what is ex-
perienced during ritual is our decision—so what
might it mean to employ a complex symbolism
during the ritual act? Beyond perhaps adding a
certain aesthetic, or an element of fun, might the
use of symbolism serve a practical purpose?
Consider a ritual to evoke an entity. True
enough, given enough practice we can perform
any designated action in order to engender the re-
quired result (see chapter 11 for more on this). But
what if, as well as performing the designated ac-
tion (say, reciting barbarous words), we were to
employ a magical phallic wand specially consec-
rated to manifest entities, with which we draw the
entities seal? And what if incense is burnt that is
deemed commensurate with the nature of the en-
tity being summoned?
Therefore as well as the original action to evoke
the entity, we have a further two levels of complex-
ity in the operation. If we consider the fact that a
magical result is a synchronicity, or the occurrence
of two events with the same meaning, does it not
follow that the complexity of the meaning of the
outcome will reflect the complexity of the meaning
involved in the ritual?
In other words, more meaning in equals more
meaning out!

FILTHY RICH
It cannot be made too explicit that the application
of complex symbolism does not mean an increase
in quantitative results, but an increase in the qual-
ity of the result. The quantification of magick can
only be entertained when causality is still con-
sidered adequate as a description of the magical
act (we'll explore this in greater detail in chapter
14). With a quantitative approach to magick, the
simple sigil engenders the same number of results
as the overblown symbolic rite—i.e. one! But if we
consider the two magical acts in a qualitative
sense, the symbolic rite creates a more meaningful
result due to the richness of the meaning employed
during the ritual.
However, the novice must not try and run be-
fore he or she can walk. It is essential during a ritu-
al that every element of the magical act has a clear
purpose and a reason for doing it. It is better to de-
cide what one action means and undergo that ex-
perience, than to attempt to employ a thousand
symbols not fully understood and end up confused
in the middle of a cumbersome and overly cerebral
rite.
MAGICAL LANGUAGE
So where might we begin in order to learn this
'magical language' for use in the magical act? H o w
are we to make sense of so many symbols from so
many traditions?

If we were to accept that the universe is com-
posed solely of ideas, and that the most elementary
expression of an idea, and its relationship with oth-
er any other idea, is mathematical in nature, would
it not be possible to attribute any phenomena
whatsoever to number?
If it were really possible to attribute every phe-
nomenon or every symbol to a number, we could
develop not only a mnemonic system beyond par-
allel, but also an intuitive, coherent means of un-
derstanding every symbol in relation to every oth-
er.
The symbolic complexity of a ritual would then
not only be a matter of the material symbols em-
ployed during ritual, but on the breadth and depth
of the magician's symbolic association developed
by using such a numerical system as outlined
above.
Thankfully for us such a system already exists,
and seems to have existed in various cultures
around the world for millennia. Today we know it
as the Qaballah.
EXERCISE 14
1. Choose a Qaballah: Hebrew, Greek, Latin,
English, GoN, etc, purchase a good book on
the subject and memorise the alphabet with its
numerical values.
2. Develop a 'book of numbers': Write down
every number from 0 to 1,000. Work out the
numerical value of all of the ideas that are im-
portant to you (using the Qaballah you have

chosen), and write them next to the corres-
ponding number. Add words as and when ne-
cessary.
3. Study the Tree of Life, and work out where
each word in your 'book of numbers' belongs.
4. Study all possible mathematical relationships,
and ascertain what these relationships mean
for the ideas to which you apply them.
5. Classify every phenomenon you experience in
terms of the Tree, until it is habitual.
EXERCISE 15
1. Devise a simple ritual for a specific result. Per-
form it and record the results.
2. Devise a ritual with a similar result as number
1 above, but this time employ a rich symbol-
ism, such as the use of appropriate incense,
colour schemes, robes, candles, sounds, music,
food, drink, physical acts, etc. Record the res-
ults.
3. Compare and record any differences between
the results for 1 and 2.


9 . T H E W O R L D A S W E K N O W IT
O R :
'THE AVAILABLE MEANS O F MANIFESTATION'
In chapter 1, I stated that what can be experi-
enced through magick is limited only by your
imagination, but how you experience a magical
result is limited by the available means of mani-
festation.
The available means of manifestation is the
world as we know it and a bit more besides.
We tend to consider the sensations that make u p
our five senses as 'reality'. This is where all the ac-
tion takes place, and this is where we encounter
our most visceral experiences. Of course, there are
also the mental and emotional categories or levels
of experience, but as these are private events and
exempt from consensual corroboration, they are of-
ten considered less 'real' (and so less important)
than the physical world. Last and certainly least in
our descending scale of consensual reality comes
dreaming—not only is this subjective, but it actu-
ally occurs in a different state of consciousness and
exhibits laws of an order completely different to

those experienced during the waking state, or
what we call 'normal life'.
The idea that some experiences are more valid
or 'real' than others sneaked into Western culture a
few centuries ago with the advent of Rationalism.
Once reason had become the highest authority (as
opposed to metaphysical or divine experience) we
were left with no option but to consider anything
not easily rationalised as delusional or hallucinat-
ory. In other words, our world became limited to
only those experiences immediately identifiable as
belonging to either the rational, emotional or phys-
ical levels of experience.
Considering the fact that we as a culture have
effectively 'timed out' any type of experience not
considered 'real' for the past three hundred years,
it should come as no surprise that our magical cul-
ture has followed suit. The sole criterion of today's
effective 'practical' magick is the occurrence of a
quantitative result: did the magical act cause a real
world material event to occur? Yes or no?
MENTAL
However, we need only consider what actually oc-
curs during mental/emotional/dream experience
to see that our current reductionist material view
of reality is confused.
A dream is only considered illusory once the ex-
perience is over and we return to the 'real world',
but this does not mean the actual experience of the
dream is any less genuine whilst it is occurring.
Would it not be silly to believe a thought illusory

because it isn't an emotion? Are we not committing
the same fallacy when we regard all other levels of
experience in light of the physical level?
Whereas the average westerner is conditioned
to ignore and dismiss various parts of his or her
experience, the magician actively adopts an inclus-
ive exploratory approach to the various levels of
his or her being through personal, direct experi-
ence. It should come as no surprise that the prac-
tice of magick will inevitably lead to the types of
experience the average westerner would consider
fantastic, simply because that experience belongs
to part of the means of manifestation not normally
considered real.
L o w D O W N
So far we have categorised experience as follows:
physical, emotional, mental, and dream. With
dream we can also include the imagination, as both
types of experience share fundamental character-
istics, and revert to the traditional heading for this
category, which is 'astral'.
There are also another three planes we can add
to the list, described in more or less every magical
tradition the world over, but whose existence can
easily be corroborated through certain practices:
these are the etheric, metaphysical and non-dual
planes. Before we explore these however, let's take
a closer look at the astral.

ASTRAL
Most human beings are intimate with the physical,
emotional and mental realms on a daily basis, and
generally their understanding of these levels is
much more advanced than their understanding of
the astral. While it is true that our imagination is
more or less in constant use with daydreaming,
planning and fantasising, the attitude of seeing the
imagination as an illusory function of the mind,
and dream as a peculiarity of sleep, has stunted
our exploration of the astral realm as a plane with
its own specific laws, flora and fauna.
The astral realm can be fully accessed in two
ways: lucid dreaming and astral projection. The
first method involves the cultivation of self-con-
sciousness during dreaming, whereas the second
method requires the cultivation of dreaming whilst
awake. Whichever technique is used, it should be
borne in mind that a realm is being explored com-
plete with its own intelligent inhabitants, peculiar
rules and specific dangers. Remember: just because
it is the astral realm, it doesn't mean the experience
is illusory.
If you wish to experience the astral realm via lu-
cid dreaming, try the following:
EXERCISE 16
1. Keep a dream diary. As soon as you wake up,
write down everything you can remember
about your dreams. If initially you fail to recall
anything it is important you still attempt the

exercise every morning. Eventually recall will
become easier and the ability to remember all
your dreams without the use of the diary can
be developed through perseverance. Record
any results.
2. On a daily basis and during waking hours, at-
tempt to change the colour of the floor you are
standing on through will power alone. Even-
tually this should establish itself as a habit that
will be expressed whilst dreaming, triggering
lucidity. Record your results.
3. Perform an act of magick to experience a lucid
dream. Record the results.
4. Once lucidity is established, it may prove diffi-
cult to prevent the dream from dissipating.
The only solution to this is repetition.
However, with practice, lucid dreaming will
allow you to travel in your astral body to
wherever you might wish to go on the astral
plane—you can construct temples and sacred
spaces, evoke entities and experiment with
shape changing. But be warned: if you don't
have a good banishing ritual (see chapter 11)
under your belt or a means of protection, you
are leaving yourself wide open to astral attack.
As always, record your results.
If you wish to experience the astral plane through
astral projection, try the following:

EXERCISE 1 7
1. Lie down and relax.
2. Become aware of your imaginary body. Al-
though you are essentially imagining the body,
there should be an element of allowing the
sensations of the astral body to arise of their
own accord.
3. Now move around in your imagined form, see
with your imaginary eyes, hear with your ima-
ginary ears, etc. For some, astral travel comes
easy, but for a lot of people it can be quite diffi-
cult. If at this point you are struggling to
'leave' the physical body and sense with your
imaginary senses, there is only one possible
course of action—practice! Some find it useful
to move a physical limb, remember what the
physical sensation felt like, and then use that
memory as a basis for moving the correspond-
ing astral limb, as an exercise in slowly build-
ing up the astral form. However I very much
believe in simply repeating the above exercise
—usually, the 'knack' is suddenly gained and
the problems vanish, much like with lucid
dreaming. Keep in mind that you are trying to
access something that is already there, which
you already experience every night.
4. Explore! However, be cautious—not all astral
beings are who they say they are, and not all
beings mean well. Again, it is prudent to have
mastered a good banishing ritual. If you wish
to gain a greater understanding of a certain

idea, travel to its astral abode. For instance, if
you wish to explore Malkuth on the Tree of
Life, you can create a door with the necessary
attributes (such as the appropriate colour,
symbol, and material peculiar to Malkuth) to
take you there.
5. Be sure to return the astral body to the physic-
al body at the end of the practice—who knows
what might happen to it left unattended...
ETHERIC
Residing between the physical and emotional
levels of experience, the etheric level is the realm of
subtle energetics, and includes the experience
known as prana in India, chi in china, ki in Korea
and Japan, Wilhelm Reich's orgone, Yoruban ashe,
ka of the Egyptians, the Polynesian mana, nefesh of
Judaism, and the Aboriginal maban (this is of
course just a small selection of traditional ex-
amples of this phenomenon). We have taken the
title for this category from the European alchemic-
al name for the experience, which is ether.
Ether can be considered the life force' or the
fundamental energy inherent in all things, al-
though it should not be confused with conscious-
ness itself. Traditionally ether is intrinsically linked
with the breath, and most traditions teach breath-
ing exercises as a means of accessing this experi-
ence, as well as the use of specific postures. Ether
is used for healing in practices such as Reiki or in
the 'laying on of hands', and can be used to cause

injury through internal martial arts such as Ba
Gua, Tai Chi and Hsing Yi.
However, perhaps the most powerful applica-
tion of ether is as a means of accessing the meta-
physical plane (see below). In many etheric tradi-
tions, such as kundalini or kriya yoga, the etheric
force is often depicted as a snake or serpent resid-
ing at the bottom of the spine, which through a
combination of breathing and posture is induced to
travel up the body, awakening various magical
powers as it goes, until it reaches its destination
just above the crown of the head to result in a
metaphysical experience.
Ether can be considered the interface between
the body and the mind. We can influence ether
through visualisation and intent, which in turn in-
fluences the body. Hence many etheric arts appear
to those that have never experienced the etheric as
simple visualisation exercises, such as the use of
imagined symbols in reiki, or visualising the arms
as made of iron in Hsing Yi, or the hundreds of
variant chakra or energy centre systems found in
Hinduism and Tantra. Experience of the etheric is
essential before these techniques can be under-
stood and practiced properly.
Given enough practice we can also experience
the etheric body, but bear in mind that the astral
and etheric bodies are often confused. Whereas the
astral body inhabits the astral plane, which is un-
mistakably a unique environment, the etheric body
seems to overlap both the astral and physical
worlds. The transition to the etheric body can be
quite an intense 'physical' experience, usually in-

volving a great buzzing sensation that can be quite
unpleasant. Generally, accounts of out of body ex-
periences (OBEs) are usually describing experience
of the etheric plane, although many amateurs will
describe OBEs as astral projection.
In my experience and that of others, accessing
the etheric body is much more of a challenge than
accessing the astral form. Although intense medit-
ative practice can help with this, the following four
exercises have proven the most effective at furnish-
ing experience of the etheric, if not a full-blown
OBE experience:
EXERCISE 18
1. Sit in a relaxed, comfortable position with
your back straight.
2. The following is one complete round of a basic
pranayama exercise incorporating alternate
nostril breathing:
3. Inhale through the left nostril, closing the right
with the thumb, to the count of four.
4. Hold the breath, closing both nostrils, to the
count of sixteen.
5. Exhale through the right nostril, closing the
left with the ring and little fingers, to the count
of eight.
6. Inhale through the right nostril, keeping the
left nostril closed with the ring and little fin-
gers, to the count of four.

7. Hold the breath, closing both nostrils, to the
count of sixteen.
8. Exhale through the left nostril, keeping the
right closed with the thumb, to the count of
eight.
9. Start by practicing three rounds and build u p
slowly to twenty rounds. Once this exercise
becomes easy, the count can be extended
providing the ratio remains 2:8:4.
10. Record the results.
11. Investigate other pranayama and breath work
exercises.
EXERCISE 19
1. Stand with feet shoulder width apart, back
straight, with a slight bend to the knees. Relax
the shoulders and let your arms hang by your
side with a slight curve at the elbow. The in-
side of the arms should not be touching the
sides of your body—imagine a tennis ball un-
der each armpit to gauge the correct distance.
The hands should be completely relaxed.
2. Stand in this position, without moving at all,
for 15 minutes, eventually building up to 1
hour.
3. It is not essential to keep your awareness on
the body during this exercise for it to work,
and you can even watch television or listen to
music should you feel bored. Sooner or later

persistent pains may develop in certain areas
of the body during the practice. Classically
these pains are considered etheric blockages
that will eventually dissipate through contin-
ued practice, and so it is important to maintain
the posture for the allocated time.
4. The results of this simple exercise can be quite
astounding. Preliminary results are generally
experienced in the hands first, and can be any-
thing from the awareness of subtle sensations
such as tingling, vibration, fullness, coldness
or hotness, all the way to ether moving your
limbs of its own accord. Whatever happens, re-
member to write it down.
EXERCISE 20
1. Take u p kundalini yoga.
2. Record any results.
EXERCISE 21
1. Design an act of magick for experiencing ether
/ the etheric body / having an out of body ex-
perience.
2. Perform the rite and record the results (this ex-
ercise will work wonderfully in conjunction
with one of the practices given above).

METAPHYSICAL
A metaphysic is simply a language for describing
events at the profound or mystical level of experi-
ence, which transcends but includes the physical,
etheric, emotional, mental and astral planes. Meta-
physical experience falls into two main categories:
states of absorption and stages of insight.
Techniques that engender states of absorption
can be defined as the practice of reducing aware-
ness to a single experience whilst excluding all other
experience. Examples of this kind of practice are yo-
gic concentration exercises, entheogenic consump-
tion, sex, flagellation, breath work, dance, etc.
States of absorption are usually referred to as
trances, and are rather misleadingly called 'gnosis'
in Chaos Magic. States of absorption are a key ele-
ment of sigil magick (see chapter 3).
The specific characteristics of a state of absorp-
tion largely depend on expectations brought to the
exercise used to induce the state. For instance, in
Theravada Buddhism it is possible to practice and
experience eight types of trance called Jhanas
through concentration exercise. Similarly, if using
breath work to enter trance from a rebirth per-
spective, the absorption state will predictably carry
the characteristics of a traumatic experience. It's
possible to induce any kind of experience with ab-
sorption states given enough practice and the use
of the appropriate focus, and intense bliss, past life
recall and visions are all possible. The fact that the
magician becomes 'absorbed' in the exercise has
fooled many into believing that absorption in an
experience such as 'nothingness' or some other re-

fined and subtle perception is the equivalent to ex-
periencing the goal or end result of the metaphys-
ical process, which as stated earlier is experienced
in stages as opposed to being a state.
Techniques that initiate stages of insight can be
defined as the practice of maintaining an aware-
ness of the immediate sensations that make up
reality whilst allowing those sensations to arise
and pass away of their own accord. Rather than be-
coming absorbed in such a practice, the continued
observation of reality in the present begins a cycle
of progressive insight into the nature of reality,
with recognisable and predictable stages and a def-
inite end result, sometimes referred to as enlight-
enment or illumination. This is the Great Work of
magick. Due to the tendency of the mind to
wander, a degree of skill in concentration is neces-
sary to perform insight practice correctly. As a res-
ult, most insight exercises usually include a focus
such as the breath to anchor the awareness in the
present (for this reason, a light absorption state can
be a great aid in practicing insight); however,
whereas in concentration exercises all other sensa-
tions are excluded from awareness, in insight prac-
tice all experience is apprehended and allowed to
arise and pass of its own accord in conjunction
with the primary focus. It can be seen then that the
difference between absorption and insight is a
subtle one, and it is possible to initiate the stages of
insight by any of the exerdses used to attain ab-
sorption states by simply expanding, rather than
contracting, the awareness during the practice.
Classic examples of insight practice are vipassana,

centred prayer, puja and other devotional prac-
tices, and gaining the Knowledge and Conversa-
tion of the Holy Guardian Angel (see chapter 13).
The metaphysical process is cyclical in nature
and is composed of three basic stages: a plateau, a
trough and a peak.
The plateau is a period of novelty, where magical
practice is interesting and progress is steady. In-
sights come easily, and the plateau culminates in
an event I like to call Naive Enlightenment. Naive
enlightenment can include, but is not limited to,
the following phenomena: trance-like events, dis-
solution of boundaries, visions of bright light, feel-
ings of bliss, oneness, vibration, love, great enthu-
siasm for non-dualism, the belief you've experi-
enced God/the Tao/the Truth, the belief enlighten-
ment has occurred as a single event, as opposed to
a process.
The trough quickly follows naive enlightenment,
and practice becomes difficult and unpleasant. The
success enjoyed during the plateau is gone, and the
magician can experience any number of negative
emotions, at varying degrees of intensity, in regard
to perception itself. The trough can include, but is
not limited to, the following phenomena: feelings
of fear, disgust, and hate, desire for deliverance,
psychosis, unpleasant bodily sensations, and sleep-
iness. The trough is sometimes referred to in other
systems as the 'Dark Night of the Soul', and can
last anywhere from a few hours to a number of
years, the latter usually as a result of buying into
the naive enlightenment event.

The peak arrives with a gradual equanimity to-
wards phenomena: peace is made with perception.
Magick is no longer the slog it was during the
trough, and a certain feeling of mastery prevails.
The peak reaches a climax with the occurrence of
the absolute as a peak experience. This marks a
fundamental insight into the nature of reality, and
with repetition of the cycle the occurrence of the
absolute will develop into a plateau experience,
with the eventual end result of the process being
complete illumination or enlightenment with the
occurrence of the absolute as a permanent adapta-
tion.
For a more in-depth discussion of the meta-
physical process, please see my essay Crossing the
Abyss: How to do it and what to expect.
It should be noted that many teachers and tradi-
tions in both the East and West have confused ab-
sorption states with insight stages, with some prac-
titioners being completely oblivious to the fact that
a metaphysical process with stages even exists at
all. Considering the ease in which an absorption
state practice can become an insight exercise, it
should come as no surprise that many dabblers in
magical techniques have accidentally initiated the
process only to become effectively 'stuck' in a stage
without realising it, let alone knowing how to pro-
gress. This can spell bad news if the stage happens
to be the trough! The only remedy to such a situ-
ation is the habitual practice of insight. If that
doesn't sound too appealing, or if you would
rather not engage with the process, it is best not to
dabble with magick at all.

In the end, the difference between a state and a
stage is a question of immediate access: if a mystic-
al event can be experienced at will, and the access
and intensity of that experience can be improved
with repetition, we are most certainly looking at a
state that we can enter and exit. If a mystical event
occurs, but can only be repeated after passing
through a number of recognisable events before-
hand, we are looking at a stage of the metaphysical
process.
EXERCISE 22
1. Sit comfortably, preferably in a meditation
posture.
2. Select an object to concentrate on. This can be
anything from a spot on the wall, a sound or
mantra or a visualized shape such as a yellow
square.
3. Fix your attention on the object. Every time
you become aware of something other than
the object, simply return your attention to it.
This will occur frequently at first, but will im-
prove with time.
4. Persist for at least 15 minutes in the beginning,
extending the sitting period as your ability de-
velops.
5. Record any results including the number of
breaks from the object.

6. In addition to the above exercise, study and
experiment with as many trance inducing
practices as possible, and record the results.
EXERCISE 23
Compare and contrast the results from exercise 22,
above, with the exercises given in Chapters 12 and
14.
N O N - D U A L
The ultimate level of experience is a mystery. Ex-
perience of the non-dual is not really an experience
at all, as by its very nature no 'experiencer' or ex-
perience is possible at this level, but nevertheless
the practices that engage the metaphysical stages
of insight lead to the occurrence of the non-dual
during the peak of the cycle. Repetition of the in-
sight cycle will eventually lead to the occurrence of
the non-dual as a permanent adaptation, which is
when the magician is considered illuminated or
enlightened. This is the Great Work of magick.
Whereas every other level of experience demon-
strates relative and subjective shallow features as
well as objective deep features, the non-dual is the
only level that is absolute and objective in itself.
The non-dual is the truth with a capital T.

REALITY
Although I've categorised experience as physical,
etheric, emotional, mental, astral, metaphysical
and non-dual, it must be borne in mind that we
never experience these various levels in isolation.
Reality is the total experience of all these levels
simultaneously—even when focused on one par-
ticular experience we are still experiencing every
other level, even if we aren't immediately aware of
the fact. The totality of reality is therefore our
available means of manifestation, and so the great-
er our mastery of each of the levels of experience,
the greater the variety and depth of the magical
results we can enjoy.
Magick, when practiced at all levels, is the ex-
pansion of the self in all directions.

1 0 . T H E D I R T Y F - W O R D
O R :
' A N INTRODUCTION T O WORKING W I T H SPIRITS, GODS
ne of the most rewarding fields of magical
practice is interaction with non-human intelli-
gences, or working with spirits and gods. This can
take many forms, from creating your own entities
to practicing a religion.
In the monotheistic mainstream traditions of the
West, faith is the means by which we interact with
non-human intelligences. For many magicians,
faith has become synonymous with swallowing
authoritarian dogma via a complete circumvention
of the reasoning faculty, and as such is now con-
sidered a bit of a dirty word.
So what is the difference between magical interac-
tion with spirits and the Western monotheistic tra-
ditions, or what we usually call religion? What im-
mediately springs to mind is ineffectual ritual.
A N D DEMONS'
ANYONE FOR CAKE?

From the age of three, up until I was ten, I sang
hymns and prayed daily at a Church of England
school. In that seven-year period, nothing spiritual
in terms of the Christian narrative ever happened
to me. I never saw evidence of God, Jesus or Mary;
I never had a prayer answered; I never felt 'a pres-
ence'. That cardboard had no meaty goodness.
There is of course the question of sincerity. Did
God ignore me because I lacked faith? There are
Christians who claim experience of their God—
and the glassy look in their eyes as they smugly
hug themselves is enough to convince me of genu-
ine experience. Yet I distinctly remember believing
in Jesus and his gaseous dad; after all, they got me
at a young age. So the fault must lie in what I was
actually doing.
SILLY BOB
Let us consider prayer. In the Church of England,
this generally involves heaping praise on God, ex-
pounding your inadequacies as a worthless
wretch, and then asking for forgiveness. It's pretty
obvious you're not exactly commanding Big G into
a 'triangle of art'. And when you get specific,
kneeling at your bed, asking 'Please Lord, help Bob
'No Knees' Robson see the error of his gambling
ways, etc', you are hoping, desiring, that God will
respond. However, your desire is the qualification
of the absence of what you actually want—i.e. you
are experiencing this event: I hope a god will listen to
me.

If we look at magical practice or religious tradi-
tions where spirits or gods can be traded with, or
compelled, we can see that the interaction is the
qualification of the requested result. The experi-
ence here is: I am interacting with a god. Appropriate
results must necessarily follow.
Those Christians that have experienced their
God must have decided to.
What you experience in terms of your interac-
tion with non-human intelligences rests in a magic-
al decision. As such, we must question what we
mean when we use the word 'faith'. I began this
chapter with the common definition of faith as be-
ing that of 'an unquestioning belief in something,
regardless of proof'.
I offer a re-evaluation: 'Faith' is at the heart of
every single experience you have, because what
you experience rests solely on a decision, which
does not require an explanation for it to exist.
Faith is such a dirty word for non-religious
Westerners because our primary example is a de-
cision to have no result; therefore, we think faith
means blind belief with no apparent benefit. In
terms of Christianity, faith is simply the decision to
have no experience of God. When we practice ma-
gick with a spirit, even in the absence of any phys-
ical indication of its presence, our faith is the de-
cision to interact with that entity.
DEATH = HAPPY TIME
So why on earth would a Christian/Jew/Muslim
choose to have no experience of his or her God?

Well, there is a certain amount of coercion from the
governing bodies: as long as we remain in a state
of desire when we petition God, we won't face
eternal damnation in the afterlife.
If w e look at the monotheistic system as a
whole, we can see that it is based on keeping the
devotee in a state of desire permanently. It is not
y o u r place to demand anything from God, so you
m u s t hope; the benefit of devotion is promised at
the end of your earthly existence, so you must re-
main in a state of desire. And let us not forget,
bonking is very bad.
Desire is a magical act that leads nowhere. De-
sire is a prison.
Any other magical act necessitates a move away
from desire, and is therefore a move towards free-
dom.
TIME T O GET THE T I N - F O I L HATS O U T
The Church has been very sneaky, using magick to
render its members permanently ineffectual, whilst
denying or damning the very thing that keeps
them in that state. Which begs the question—did
the creators of these religions (and by this I don't
m e a n Christ, Moses or Mohammed) know what
they were doing?
At this point, it would be very easy for me to
make the claim that there is an ancient, secret glob-
al network of black magicians, which aeons ago
created organised monotheistic religion in order to
enslave mankind for its own dark ends.
But then, I don't want to get kicked out, do I?

1 1 . G O D BOTHERING
O R :
' H o w T o WORK W I T H SPIRITS, GODS AND DEMONS'
Working with spirits, gods or other entities is
very simple: you decide to. Like this:
1. Decide why you want to work with an entity
(this can be anything, from a specific reason
like wanting to increase your wealth, to the ex-
ercise of religious devotion).
2. Pick an appropriate entity (so if you wanted to
perform some magick related to love, an ap-
propriate goddess to work with might be
Venus. There is also no reason you can't pick
the spirit of someone who has died to work
with, like an ancestor8).
8. If you choose an entity that would lo-ve to ruin your life and
your mental well being, make sure you work with it in the tra-
ditional method, or with some other form of protection. As an
example, there is a group of spirits known as the Goetia (to be
found in The Lesser Key of Solomon the King) that traditionally
require various names of God, a triangle for the spirit to be
conjured into, and a circle for the magician to stand in, for the
protection of the magician. I have encountered numerous ma-

3. Choose a representation of the entity to work
with; this could be physical (like a painting or
statue—either bought or made by yourself), or
imagined (by visualising the entity's form—
what does it look like/smell like/sound like?).
Alternatively, if you know it, you can just work
with the entity's sigil or seal in place of the entity's
actual form.
Remember: if you choose to visualise the entity,
it doesn't mean you are not addressing a real intel-
ligence; what you experience is the truth.
4. Now talk to him or her. If you don't know
what to say, consider how you would talk to
any stranger. Be polite and friendly.
5. If you know what the entity likes, give him or
her an offering, and in return ask for help with
whatever problem may be at hand. It feels silly
to have to say this, but remember: if you want
to interact with the entity, you must decide to
interact with the entity, by doing it.
gicians who think such protection is superfluous, their argu-
ment usually being 'other cultures don't need protection to in-
teract with their spirits.' But thaf s because their spirits aren't
the Goetia. It is true that many African/Caribbean/Brazilian
traditions (such as Quimbanda or Voudon) interact with spir-
its that share similar names and seals with Goetic spirits, but
these spirits are still not the Goetia. If you want to work with
the Goetia, then work with the whole of the Goetia. If you
work with the Goetic demons without protection, they will
fuck you up. Badly. If you want to work with spirits the way
'other traditions' do, without protection, then work with spir-
its that do not require it.

Offerings can take many forms, such as food,
flowers, alcohol, tobacco, art works and even
breath. Two of the most 'powerful' offerings that
entities from all walks of life seem to prize above
all others, are blood and sex.
Offering blood does not require amputation or
murder (disappointing, I know)—a single drop of
blood extracted via a sterilised lancet and dabbed
on the entities representation will suffice.
Similarly, in the case of a sexual sacrifice, an
orgy isn't necessary (but if you're going to be at
one anyway, what the hell?). Simply anointing the
entity with sexual fluids from a dedicated act of
masturbation is adequate.
It must be stressed that both blood and sex sac-
rifices should only be used in extreme cases—they
guarantee exceptional results, but if used fre-
quently some spirits will expect nothing less in the
future—and then where do you go from there?
6. Once you've said everything you need to say,
thank the entity and say goodbye.
7. It is customary to perform a banishing ritual
here—see below for details.
HELLO? IS ANYBODY THERE?
It must be remembered that non-human intelli-
gences can only communicate through what is
available—if you don't have great visionary ability,
don't expect the entity to pop up and shake your
hand.

If all you do is address the entity, give an offer-
ing, ask for help and give thanks, without any vis-
ible manifestation or a booming voice or objects
floating around your room, the magick will still work
(unless, of course, you're rude and expect
something for nothing).
If you want more than a one-way conversation,
it can be prudent to offer a means of communica-
tion when working with a spirit, such as a divinat-
ory device like a pendulum or Ouija board. Anoth-
er good means is to ask the entity to communicate
with you through your dreams.
Unless an entity has a special interest in you
(this does happen), it may take a while before the
entity starts visiting you spontaneously or helping
you out at times of need without being asked. This
is when the real benefit of forming a relationship
with a non-human intelligence becomes apparent.
N o w THE RITUAL IS OVER, W H A T D O I D o W I T H
THE BODY?
On a practical note, if you've decided to give your
entity an offering that isn't actually used up during
the ritual (such as incense), what do you actually
do with it after the ritual?
Well, short of the entity actually telling you
what to do with it, I would recommend leaving
food offerings on the altar, or in some other place it
would not be disturbed, until it starts to smell. I
would then either bury it somewhere, rededicating
to the entity, or if the offering has been there for
some time, throw it away. In the case of something

that already smells, such as a bleeding cow's heart,
the faster it gets in the ground, the better.
In the case of alcohol or other drinks, you could
leave them to evaporate, or pour them, rededic-
ated, as a libation on the earth.
Objects, such as works of art, can be buried or
burned.
Saying that though, there's nothing quite like a
big pile of cigars, flowers, burning incense,
candles, bizarre fetishes and numerous bottles of
40% rum to make your altar look the business9.
H o w T o CREATE FAMILIARS
Of course, you don't have to work with an existing
god or spirit. You can always make one up. This
type of spirit is usually referred to as a familiar or
servitor. If you can think of a task you would like a
spirit to do, consider what kind of spirit might be
most appropriate for the job. What would it look
like? Sound like? Smell like? Give it a name and / or
a sigil. Next, visualise it, address it and ask it to
perform the task. Alternatively, you can find/make
a material representation of the spirit, and address
that.
Remember to be specific and don't expect the
spirit to come running back with a big bag of gold
if you've asked it to get you some cash—the result
will manifest as a synchronicity.
9. A word of warning: if you, or an ignorant friend, decide to
take a dedicated offering off of the altar for yourself, then you
are stealing from a spirit. I shall say no more.

Prolonged use of the spirit will strengthen it—if
you visualise the familiar's form, it will progress-
ively become more vivid and may appear when
you don't call it—becoming more adept at its job to
boot.
H o w T o D O A BANISHING
So what do you do when your created entity starts
getting on your tits (for example, throwing crap
around your gaff)? Well, it's probably time to get
rid of it. In terms of a created familiar, you could
visualise the spirit dissolving into energy that you
reabsorb, or you could burn its material represent-
ation and sigil. To get rid of an entity you have
summoned, you will require a banishing ritual.
Many people believe that banishing serves no
other function than psychological reassurance. But
as I have said, if you decide that's what it does,
then that's what it does. Personally, I prefer to
throw uninvited demons (that jump on me in the
middle of the night) out of my house, rather than
just fostering a feeling of being 'centred'.
I find it's generally a good idea to banish before
any magical act in order to remove any lurking 'in-
fluences' afterwards (unless of course you want
whatever it is you have summoned to linger
around).
Banishing, like all acts of magick, can take any
number of forms, the limit of which is your ima-
gination. For example, if you have any friends that
happen to be a god or spirit, you can ask these to
aid you in banishing the space, or alternatively you

can command any unwanted influences to dis-
perse in the name of a god or spirit. You can even
visualise a vacuum cleaner sucking u p any linger-
ing thoughts and feelings, or a bright light that dis-
solves any unwanted presences (perhaps growing
out of your head to encompass the space).
Of course, there are many traditional forms of
exorcism or banishing available, such as the Lesser
Banishing Ritual of the Pentagram, the Gnostic Penta-
gram Banishing Ritual, and the Star Ruby, should
you want somewhere to start.
H o w T o GET POSSESSED
Possession, invocation or channelling—whatever
you want to call it, letting an entity communicate
through your body is good fun.
There are two very simple traditional methods
for achieving this:
1. Address the entity in exactly the same way as
described previously, and ask or call it to pos-
sess you (or, if you are working in a group,
then ask or call the spirit to possess the chosen
'horse'—this is the person to be possessed,
whom the entity will 'ride').
2. Pretend to be the entity, adopting its form
through an act of imagination, and through
speaking as though you are the entity, until the
entity starts acting through you with no con-
scious effort on your behalf.

However, from what we know of the magical
act, it is possible to get possessed by an entity
through other means, from the sympathetic meth-
od to a completely nonsensical act. For instance,
you could tap a picture of yourself with a statue of
the chosen entity, until you are possessed, or you
could decide that you will be possessed by n (in-
sert chosen entity name) through eating some
'charged' bread, and awaiting the result.
The duration of the magical act used for the
spirit to possess you, before you get the desired
result, will vary from ritual to ritual, and from
'horse' to 'horse'. It may be two minutes or it could
be ten—just don't expect to suddenly black out
and wake up an hour later, with mysterious
bruises and someone else's trousers on.
Possession is a gradual process and you need to
let it happen or you will dispel the effect.
Like all things, invocation may take a few at-
tempts before you have any degree of real success;
but it is a lot easier and a lot less frightening than
the beginner might assume. It takes talent in this
field or a good deal of practice before you can get
to the stage of actually failing to recall what you
did whilst you were possessed.
So what do you do once the entity has arrived?
Like any magical act, you should have a reason
for doing it, and hopefully you've picked an entity
that can help you with this.
Interact with the entity as described earlier—
have a chat, make offerings, ask for oracular in-
formation or for help with a problem.

You may find that the possession will end of its
own accord, and may not last as long as desired;
either way, thank the entity for coming, say good-
bye and banish.
In the case of a possession that lasts longer than
desired, you will need to thank the entity, ask it to
leave and banish, banish, banish! If in a group set-
ting, administer a direct banishing on the individu-
al (drawing a pentagram over the person is always
a good one). In extreme cases, a bucket of cold wa-
ter in the face has proven effective.
H o w T o CONJURE A N ENTITY T O VISIBLE
MANIFESTATION
Come on, admit it—this is what you've been wait-
ing for, isn't it?
Traditionally, the method is exactly the same as
described at the beginning of this chapter (except
you only work with a physical representation or
sigil of die entity, not the visualisation of its form),
but when you address the entity you ask or call it
to visibly manifest, for as long as it takes to get a
result, before you proceed with the rest of the ritu-
al.
Again, as with invocation, you can get an entity
to manifest using any experience you choose, just
so long as you decide that it means that specific en-
tity will manifest. For instance, you could have a
magick Ganesha hat that whenever worn calls
Ganesha to appear. Such an act would require re-
petition until any efficacy is developed—in just the

same way as calling Ganesha to manifest in the tra-
ditional manner does.
The quality of the manifestation depends on a
number of factors: the entity used, the experience
of the conjurer (i.e. how much practice he or she
has put in), but most importantly, the available
means the entity has to manifest.
If you have a good visionary ability, then the
greater the chance the entity has of visibly appear-
ing to you. If not, you could burn a good quantity
of incense for the entity to form a physical shape
out of the smoke, or perhaps use a shiny surface
(such as a black mirror with two candles at each
side of it) to 'see' the entity in.
If you don't have much of a visionary faculty,
and provide no other means, chances are you will
have the unmistakable feeling of a presence, or
perhaps a drop in temperature, as confirmation of
manifestation. If you're lucky, the entity might
even re-arrange the contents of your house for you.
Remember: you don't need to conjure the entity
to manifest in order to work with it.
Now we've covered the various methods of
working with entities, over the next page I've
provided an example of a ritual using these meth-
ods, and how they correspond to the outline given
in chapter 4.
Here we go again:
EXERCISE 24
1. Use each of the first four methods given in the
table over the page, using a different entity

with each one, and employ the fifth method
before and after each working.
2. Record the results.
EXERCISE 25
1. Choose one of the entities that you've already
used.
2. Using your imagination, come up with some
nonsensical action or experience (i.e. with no
logical correspondence to the entity chosen or
the act of manifestation).
3. Decide that this experience means your chosen
entity will appear.
4. Practice, and record the results.

Outline Entity work Creating a familiar
1. Decide what you
want to occur.
My manager will
resign
I will create a familiar
2. Ensure that what
you want to occur
has a means of
manifestation.
I do have a manager
and there is the
possibility for him to
resign.
I have the faculty of
visualisation
3. Choose an
experience.
The addressing of a
fetish of the Aztec
god Tezcatlipoca,
with an offering of
chocolate.
The visualisation and
addressing of a little elf
4. Decide that the
experience means the
same thing as what
you want to occur.
Giving an offering to
Tezcatlipoca to
ensure my manager
resigns means my
manager will resign
The visualisation of a
little elf means I will
create a familiar
5. Perform the act/
undergo the
experience.
Address
Tezcatlipoca, ask him
to help make your
manager resign,
thank him and give
him the chocolate.
Banish. Later on,
bury the offering.
Visualise a little elf, give
it a name, and tell him
he will appear
whenever you call, to
carry out whatever
tasks you wish him to
perform
6. Result. Within a day/week/
month?
Whenever you need a
bit of magick doing, call
the familiar's name (it
might take a few goes
before he appears
without needing to be
visualised) and instruct
him

Traditional
possession method
Traditional visible
manifestation method
Banishing
I will be possessed
by n.
I will conjure n to
visible manifestation
I will banish any
entities present
The entity can
manifest through my
body
The entity can
manifest using the
smoke from the
copious amounts of
incense I will burn
Entities can stop
manifesting
Imagining myself as
n, and describing my
attributes as n.
The calling of n to
visibly appear.
Drawing 4
pentagrams in the air
with my finger, one at
each compass point
(N,E,S,W).
By imagining myself
as n I will become
possessed by n
By calling n to
visibly appear I will
conjure n to visible
manifestation
By drawing 4
pentagrams in the
cardinal directions I
will banish any
entities present
Imagine yourself as
n, describe yourself
as n and your
attributes as n.
Call n to visibly
appear.
Draw 4 pentagrams,
one at each of the
cardinal points.
Result manifests at
the end of step 5.
Result manifests at
the end of step 5
(how this manifests
depends on what the
entity has available
to work with)
Result manifests at
the end of step 5.


1 2 . O N E PORTION O F D E A T H , PLEASE
O R :
'THE NATURE O F INITIATION'
Stereotypically, the occult scene is rife with
lamenting traditionalists, decrying the lack of
respect epitomised in the 'cherry-picking' activities
of the chaos magician. The chaos magician, on the
other hand, proclaims with a postmodern sneer: I
am free from the traditionalists' ignorance! Why
not have magick without the dogma?
Sadly, some stereotypes are true, and you don't
need to look far on the occult scene to see these
particular examples in action. Magick, it seems, is
as infected by prejudice10 as any other culture.
However I believe this bickering and posturing
is indicative of a genuine problem with both ap-
proaches; and this is no better illustrated than in
the magicians that feel the need to either convert
from one stance to the other, or to keep a foot in
both camps. True enough, some conversions are
simply a case of changing stripes and maintaining
10. As disgusting as it is, I've actually experienced the wrong
end of these prejudices in action.
107

the same childish behaviour; but there are a num-
ber for whom the need is genuine.
Why is this? What is missing from the postmod-
ern approach for its adherents to yearn for a trans-
ition or a complimentary commitment to a single
tradition?
H A N D OVER THE SECRET FORMULA
One of the biggest criticisms of postmodern ma-
gick concerns its lack of initiatory knowledge. Tra-
ditions have teachings that cannot be learned from
books, but must be transmitted orally, or demon-
strated. Without initiation into the tradition, these
techniques or secrets cannot be known. With re-
gards to postmodern magick, even membership to
a practical magical order will only confer a certain
level of practical prowess, with the practitioner re-
maining on his or her own with regards to any-
thing outside the realm of suggested practical
methodology—which is generally available in any
good bookshop. The postmodern approach will
not tell you 'the truth', or provide you with mean-
ing, nor address any moral or cultural implications
in the use of magick. Is the chaos magician missing
out on something here? Does the traditionalist
really have something the rest of the occult scene
doesn't know about, perhaps a secret technique
beyond anything we can order over the internet?
When it comes to the postmodern practical
methodology, you are given free reign to use any
technique from any tradition, which can easily in-

duce option anxiety—with so much to choose
from, how do you know where to start?
This can be a big stumbling block for beginners
and adepts alike. The inability to know where you
are going can be wearing after a prolonged period.
The problem is compounded by the fact that some
postmodern magicians will even stress that any-
thing outside of a material result is not magick. The
developmental maps of the Qabalists, Gnostics, Al-
chemists, Sufis, Buddhists, Hindus and Hermet-
i cists are deconstructed and discarded as either
primitive cosmologies or hopelessly antiquarian
moralities.
Indeed, we are told that 'nothing is true,
everything is permitted'. If we regard all ideas as
relative, and so of equal or no intrinsic value, how
can we fail to see the search for truth as inherently
pointless? It doesn't take much to come to the con-
clusion that not only magick, but also existence it-
self, is meaningless.
Faced with that, it isn't hard to see the attraction
of a magical tradition, however dogmatic.
GOGGLES
The trouble is, the distinction between practicality
and the provision of truth is a false one.
The idea that you can be taught meaning
through ideas is like believing you can swim be-
cause you've read a book about it.
Any degree of practical success with magick is
indicative that you are on the right track.
Everything to be learnt about magick can be

garnered from the actual experience itself. It only
takes a little experience before it is apparent that
magick is too simple, and so too big a phenomen-
on, to be kept as any kind of secret by any tradi-
tion.
Now, whether you gain this experience within a
single complete cosmogony, handed down through
generations, or you investigate possible narratives
that might explain what you have experienced
after the fact, is of absolutely no consequence. There
is no intrinsic value in explanation, beyond its use
in the magical act.
Both traditionalism and postmodernism (des-
pite appearances) offer the truth. Traditionalism
swears by its 'teachings', whilst postmodernism
declares 'all truth is relative'.
Both fail to realise that the truth is experience,
not the words used to describe that experience.
The traditionalist fails to understand the arbitrary
nature of any idea, whereas the postmodernist fails
to understand that the truth is not in the relativity
of those ideas, but in experience itself.
If we recognise the magical act as a means of ex-
periencing truth (as opposed to offering the truth),
with necessary artistic, scientific and cultural as-
pects, then affiliation to a magical approach,
whether postmodern or traditional, ceases to be a
matter of finding the one correct answer and be-
comes a matter of aesthetic, cultural or transforma-
tional relevance. Do you like dressing up as a
witch and raising cones of power in the woods? Or
do chaospheres get you all hot under the collar?
Do you want to be bossed around by an egomani-

ac, knowing that one day you'll discover the
secrets of the universe, or would you rather create
your own cult?
The recognition of truth as a revelatory experi-
ence is to live in a world of boundless meaning,
free from dogma. We understand the world, yet
that understanding is continually overthrown by a
richer, deeper and greater comprehension. Exist-
ence is transformed from a word into an experi-
ence.
Ultimately, the experience of practicing magick,
not the people you practice it with, or the methods
or ideas you use, is the only guru you will ever
need.
APPLE FOR THE TEACHER
It is customary in all magical approaches, tradi-
tional or otherwise, for the aspirant to undergo ini-
tiation. The word itself can be traced to ancient
Greece where one of its many meanings was death.
Initiation usually involves undergoing some kind
of ordeal in a ritual setting, sometimes with a
death / rebirth element, that marks a definite step
away from what you were, and a step towards
what you want to be.
In magical terms, you cease to be an ordinary
human and become a magician.
The benefits of undergoing initiation are numer-
ous. As stated earlier, in magical tradition this will
usually involve access to previously hidden tech-
niques or 'secrets' that the teacher or guru will
hand down to the initiate, and more often than not

functions as a formal recognition of some kind of
attainment. It is not necessary to belong to an oc-
cult body in order to be initiated; however it can be
beneficial to undergo an initiation ritual regardless
of whether or not you do. This can be as simple or
as complex as you like, and it is probably a good
idea to incorporate a symbolic discarding of old,
outmoded habits or ways of being, and an accept-
ance of new characteristics you wish to have.
Initiation can best be summed u p as a transform-
ation of the self.
RING A N Y BELLS?
You can consider this an initiation if you like, be-
cause I'm going to let you in on a little secret. Al-
though many magicians place a lot of value in un-
dergoing ritual initiations (especially the ones that
like to feel 'special'), if initiation is transformation,
then you underwent initiation the moment you
performed your first magical act.
Furthermore, every revelatory or transformative
experience, from the moment you first used your
lungs to the reading of this sentence, must be part
of an initiatory process. As an exercise in revela-
tion, the practice of magick can be considered an
acceleration of this process. However, due to the
very nature of revelation, initiation never ends.
Whether or not you are practicing a single tradi-
tion, or maintaining a postmodern approach,
whether you practice alone or in a group, whether
you are reading this because you have a genuine
interest in magick or you just fancied a laugh, you

are already part of an initiatory process. Secrets
and privileges are for the deluded.
Of course, initiation that is predominantly con-
cerned with one level of experience, such as the
physical, does not necessitate a transformation at
every other level, such as the emotional or intellec-
tual. For instance, it is possible to undergo the initi-
ations of puberty and middle age without ever en-
gaging with the metaphysical process, or to devel-
op rapidly at the etheric level whilst remaining
completely ignorant of the astral.
Initiation never ends, but it progresses at wildly
different rates with each individual and at each
level.
GREEN M I S T
Although everyone is part of an initiatory process,
it doesn't mean that everyone is a magician, or that
every magician is good at magick. You need not be
a magician to experience transformation, and if
you are a magician, your magical ability rests on a
level of development that is dependent on magical
practice; so although many people may seem light
years ahead of you in terms of obtaining magical
results, your ability is not limited by any idea of
natural talent or genetics. Rather, it simply means
the more successful magicians have a greater ex-
perience of initiation, which is something you can
remedy by implementing a regime of daily magical
practice.

CONVEYOR BELT
At first glance it may appear curious that the end
result of the metaphysical process, or experience of
the non-dual level of experience, is considered the
prime focus of practicing magick by all genuine
magical traditions, as illustrated in magical devel-
opmental maps such as the Qabalists' Tree of Life,
the alchemical process, or the various stages of in-
sight found in Theravada Buddhism. The goal is
usually referred to as 'enlightenment', or as it is
known in the West, 'The Great Work'.
But didn't I just state initiation never ends?
Although the practice of magick is the expan-
sion of the self in all directions and at all levels of
experience, the non-dual is unique in that it tran-
scends but includes all other levels. In other words,
although initiation never ends as a peculiar expres-
sion at each level of experience, the direction of
that initiation is ultimately and inescapably to-
wards the non-dual. As the only true objective and
absolute level of experience, the non-dual is not
part of the process itself (every other level of ex-
perience) and so is the only genuine accomplish-
ment possible.
The Great Work can only be accomplished be-
cause initiation never ends.
W A I T A M I N U T E . . .
But if revelation cannot be known before it has
happened, how can we possibly name, describe
and predict a number of 'revelatory' states or the

goal of the Great Work to form a developmental
map?
The problem lies with thinking revelation can-
not be known; rather, revelation is experienced. Any
idea of knowing or not knowing is simply not ap-
plicable. Although a map might provide the layout
of the streets and an expectation of what can be
found in a town, it is not the experience of visiting
that town. In the same fashion, we can chart our
progress and catch our 'initiatory' bearings from
the maps drawn by previous magicians, but the
words or diagrams are not the transformative, rev-
elatory experience itself.
The value in any map is in how well it describes
and predicts your experience; whether you come
to it through an actual decision to work within that
map, a la belief shifting, is of no consequence.
Without corroborating experience, the map is noth-
ing more than a superfluous explanation.
A MEANS O F REVELATORY MANIFESTATION
If we were to consider an exclusive magical act for
revelatory experience at the metaphysical level, it
might look something like the table over the page.

Outline Revelatory magical act
1. Decide what
you want to oc-
cur.
I will experience revelation/enlightenment
(or whatever the goal of a particular magic-
al model may be).
2 Ensure that
what you want to
occur has a
means of mani-
festation.
We require revelatory experience at the
profound or metaphysical level of experi-
ence—so the means of manifestation is
you. Perhaps addressing this level would
therefore provide a better means of mani-
festation.
3. Choose an ex-
perience.
In the light of point 2, an experience could
be anything from a simple posture, which
could include hand gestures, movements,
mantra or visualisation, all the way up to a
full-blown ritual act (see chapter 14 for an
example of this).
4. Decide that the
experience means
the same thing as
what you want to
occur.
Lef s say you've decided to sit in a certain
posture for number 3.
5. Perform the
act/undergo the
experience.
Sit, and experience sitting. This means
maintaining awareness of the present ex-
perience, without making the experience
about something else, for a given period of
time (for example 15 minutes).
6. Result. What this result may be depends solely on
'where' you are in terms of magical/initiat-
ory development at the metaphysical level
(the available means of manifestation).
This is where predictive magical models or
maps become indispensable.

This magical act is usually referred to as Zazen,
or sitting meditation in Zen Buddhism, and it is
one of the simplest and most direct methods of ex-
periencing profound revelation or the metaphysic-
al stages of insight.
No doubt you may well object, especially if
you've actually tried meditation, that one act of sit-
ting in a posture does not lead to 'enlightenment'.
This is correct, and you can be forgiven for think-
ing that the above ritual outline suggests that this
is so.
However, revelation at the metaphysical level is
not a single event, state or experience, but a con-
tinuous process, as outlined in chapter 9. This pro-
cess is inseparable from the means of manifesta-
tion.
To perform an act of magick for the end goal of
a magical developmental model, and expect a res-
ult that does not include the process it describes, is
akin to performing a ritual for money without fig-
uring the physical or 'real' world into the result,
and expecting hard cash to materialise out of thin
air. Again, magick does not allow you to do any-
thing outside of that which exists.
EXERCISE 26
1. Investigate as many esoteric developmental
models and meditative practices as possible,
such as those found in Alchemy, Qabalah,

Yoga, Buddhism, Sufism, Taoism, Hermet-
icism, Gnosticism, Thelema, Tantra, etc11.
2. Practice magick everyday, including some
form of insight meditation, such as Zazen as
outlined above. Here's another example called
vipassana:
• Sit comfortably.
• Rest the attention on the physical sensa-
tions that constitute the body.
• Do not try and exclude any other sensa-
tions—such as persistent thoughts or feel-
ings—just allow them to arise and pass of
their own accord.
• Begin by sitting for 15 minutes at a time, in-
creasing the duration as you progress.
• When you forget what you are supposed to
be doing, simply bring the attention back to
the body.
If you need a structure for your daily magical
practice, you can either devise one based on the ex-
ercises given in this book, or you can choose an ex-
isting set of techniques from the plethora of magic-
al approaches, such as the eight limbs of yoga,
Liber KKK as given in Liber Kaos by Peter Carroll,
the Invocation of the Holy Guardian Angel (see
chapter 14 for details), Taoist energy work, etc.
Remember: you can practice as many tech-
niques, both original and traditional, side by side
11. Please see the suggested reading list given at the end of
this book.

for as long or as short a period of time as you see
fit. Just make sure you do something everyday!
3. Continually monitor the results obtained and
the applicability of the various developmental
maps to your experience, regardless of wheth-
er you have taken your daily practice from a
specific model or not.


1 3 . M A K I N G OMELETTES
O R :
THE PROPHETIC NARRATIVE
It is pretty obvious, especially once you get over
the shock that it actually works, that magick
demonstrates something about the nature of reality
that is incredibly difficult to explain. However, this
doesn't stop people from trying, especially in the
West where we are obsessed with finding 'The One
Correct Answer'.
G A N D A L F T H E MASTER W I Z A R D
I once had the good fortune of participating in a
group magical working (if you haven't tried this
yet, it's really easy—get a group of friends togeth-
er, and bring a ritual each for the whole group to
perform). In the aftermath of a ritual to destroy our
consensual reality via the detonation of an ontolo-
gical grenade, all three participants experienced
the same thought, literally. This is a phenomenon
otherwise known as telepathy—in our minds at
least, the rite had worked.

However, the aftermath of the ritual happened
to involve the beginning of another ritual, with the
aim of constructing or contacting the group
egregore. A group egregore can be considered the
sum of the members' personalities, and therefore
an additional member of the group. As we began
the process of building the egregore's personality,
we experienced one of the egregore's characterist-
ics as a group thought. It was pretty obvious that we
were in direct contact with the group spirit. The
rite was off to a flying start (the poltergeist activity
later on proved the rite a definite success, although
that's another story).
So, which working was responsible for the tele-
pathy? Did the grenade rite seem effectual only be-
cause it preceded the effect of the egregore ritual?
Or was the grenade responsible for the telepathy,
and it just seemed as though we experienced
egregore contact due to the context of the group-
mind ritual?
GANDALF THE MASTURBATOR
There is of course a third option: there was no tele-
pathy, because telepathy doesn't exist; there oc-
curred a coincidence of similar thoughts, which
just so happened during a demented bout of non-
sensical, naive buffoonery in an incense-clogged
room.
It would be customary here to debate which
view should be considered 'the truth'. If there were
a bunch of magicians discussing this with a materi-
alist, the magical view would win outright as the

consensual view; and vice versa: one magician
against a board of paranormal debunkers would
only inform a non-magical reality.
However, if we look at debate as the function of
assimilating experience into a person's model of
reality, or narrative, I think it would be more
prudent to investigate the question itself: what
really happened?
LORD G O D , W H Y ?
Why must we insist on one event occurring? It
seems to me that this insistence is based on the
idea of a false choice-restriction: you can have
either/or, but not also/and. And what's with the
insistence of determining a 'true' cause? Again, we
are back to the either / or option.
It's pretty obvious that all three viewpoints fit
the bill, so why pick one over the other? If not for
aesthetic reasons, if not for the most optimistic, in-
toxicating or empowering experience a view will
afford, then what is there?
Does anyone really prefer to be a meat robot,
trapped on a rock floating in the infinite cold, in an
unforgiving, pointless universe that happened by
chance? Alone, insignificant, with only two weeks
on a beach each year to look forward to?
If we entertain the idea of also / and, we can
have two successful rites that demonstrate a mind-
blowing, fun and genuinely exciting existence, the
consequence of which is a further exploration of
superhuman powers and the development of a re-

lationship with a non-human intelligence. Or you
can go to Tenerife.
TOOL
Now the sharpest amongst you may have spotted
a problem with the idea of accepting more than
one viewpoint—and that is the common occult be-
haviour of arbitrary cause assignment. To practice
magick for a desired result is an exercise in causal-
ity—you are attempting to cause an event, and
should your magick work, you take the credit as
the cause of the event's manifestation.
Any magician worth his or her salt will tell you
that your desire will manifest as a synchronicity;
everyday events appear to lead to your result. The
idea that the event is a coincidence becomes a
moot point when for the one-hundredth rite you
get your one-hundredth coincidence. To lay the
cause of the event at the feet of the chaos of the
normal world is symptomatic of a person unable to
assimilate the story of magick into their narrative.
However, what happens when the event doesn't
materialise? Or, better yet, what happens when
you get a series of events that all overlap (like the
example with which I began this chapter)? We rap-
idly approach a situation of convenient 'cause' as-
signment, which engenders that ancient mystical
phenomenon: talking crap.

ERM, IT W A S LIKE THAT W H E N I G O T HERE
Immersion in magick and the results obtained by
practice will repeatedly lead the practitioner to a
causality impasse—i.e. the idea just does not fit the
experience.
Now, you can carry on assigning 'cause' in a
painfully obvious fashion, or you can fundament-
ally revise your narrative. No, I don't mean accept-
ing Jesus into your heart—I'm talking about ad-
dressing the idea of cause and effect.
After a couple of years of daily practice, you
may find something odd occurring: you begin
manifesting results without doing the actual work.
That's right—you think something, and it happens.
Alas, this isn't as great as it sounds, as it tends to
be those 'off-hand' or flippant thoughts that mater-
ialise; any conscious effort to control the ability
tends to dispel it.
There is a real danger of becoming an armchair
'Secret Chief' when this happens, or falling into a
state of paranoia about what events in your life
you may be causing by accident.
For the sake of sanity, some magicians advocate
ignoring this phenomenon and concentrating
solely on tried and tested techniques when pursu-
ing a result.
But to dismiss magical practice as unnecessary,
or the phenomenon itself on the grounds you
might go loopy, is a failure to realise you have out-
grown your narrative.
If you are experiencing magical results without
the magical practice, what does this say about the
practice itself? If w e look at what occurs in an exist-

ential sense, we do not actually experience a cause.
We see two consecutive events that share the same
meaning—i.e. a synchronicity. There is no differ-
ence here between a full-blown rite and a thought,
other than a certain amount of effort. You are
simply experiencing an increase in synchronicities,
or to put it more precisely, your world has become
more meaningful.
'But', cries the Secret Chief, 'if there is no cause,
why would you perform a rite? What would be the
point?'
Again, this is a failure to grasp that there is no
difference between the thought and the rite; in
practical terms, which necessitates operating in a
causal narrative, you carry on as you always have
done. The idea of something having a point (or be-
ing pointless) is simply not applicable when we
'step out' of causality.
N o , I SAID 'THE PROPHET W A S HAMMERED'
A re-adjustment to a world based on synchronicity,
as opposed to causality, is a step into the prophetic
narrative.
At the beginning of a magician's career, syn-
chronicity will occur as a peak experience. The magi-
cian performs a ritual in the temple, and later a real
world event will occur sharing the same meaning.
Causality is perfectly apt as a model for describing
this experience.
With continued daily practice, synchronicities
will begin to occur that are not strictly related to
specific magical acts. Synchronicity becomes a plat-

eau experience, and the magician experiences peri-
odic bouts of high weirdness. At this point it
should become obvious that something far
stranger than causality is required to account for
this kind of magical experience.
Eventually, synchronicity will become a perman-
ent adaptation. The advanced magician inhabits a
world completely saturated with meaning, and the
prophetic narrative has replaced causality as the
magician's modus operandi.
Prophecy is often confused with prediction: the
foretelling of a specific event. However, as de-
scribed above, prophecy deals with synchronicity
or the occurrence of events with the same mean-
ing. If one event occurs, another (or more) will oc-
cur that shares a fundamentally similar nature. As
such, the prophetic narrative is an attitude or view-
point, and includes all magical effects, not simply
the art of predicting the future, which is known as
divination.
O N THE CARDS
In order to divine an answer to a question, it is ne-
cessary to have a number of representations of pos-
sible answers to that question; and so the better
divinatory systems, such as the I Ching and Tarot,
have evolved into complete maps of reality where
all phenomena can be attributed to a 'correct place'
or meaning. The continued use of such maps will
not only give you the ability to foresee the future
i.e. the symbols you read for your answer will
share the same nature as a future event, but will go

some way to facilitating a move into the prophetic
narrative, or of experiencing the world in terms of
meaning.
Over the next page is a table that shows how a
number of methods of divination fit within the
context of the magical act. Have a look at the table,
then come back and consider the following exer-
cises:
EXERCISE 27
1. Investigate an existing method of divination
that offers a complete map of the world, such
as the Tarot or the I Ching.
2. Perform a reading for the day or week ahead
for a period of a month or longer, and record
the results.
EXERCISE 28
1. Investigate an existing method of divination
that offers simple 'yes' and 'no' answers, such
as the pendulum or ouija board.
2. Perform a divination for the day or week
ahead for the period of a month or longer, and
record the results.

EXERCISE 29
1. Invent your own method of divination.
2. Perform a divination for the day or week
ahead for the period of a month or longer, and
record the results.
It must be remembered that prophecy does not
mean we have no freewill, or that everything is a
matter of fate. Both of these ideas are simply not
applicable, because we have removed the necessity
of a cause, such as the self in terms of freewill, or
the idea of God or destiny in the case of fate.
It does, however, mean that the cornerstone of
existence is meaning.

Outline Tarot
1. Decide what you
want to occur.
I will receive an answer to my question.
2. Ensure that what
you want to occur
has a means of mani-
festation.
I have a complete map of existence
made u p of 72 symbols.
3. Choose an experi-
ence.
Shuffling the cards and laying them out
in a certain pattern.
4. Decide that the
experience means the
same thing as what
you want to occur.
Shuffling the cards and laying them out
means I will get an answer to my ques-
tion.
5. Perform the
act/undergo the ex-
perience.
Shuffle the cards, produce a layout.
6. Result. Occurred at the end of step 5—read the
cards.

I C h i n g Pendulum Self-made divinat-
ory system
I will receive an
answer to my
question.
I will receive an
answer to my
question.
I will receive an an-
swer to my ques-
tion.
I have a complete
map of existence
made u p of 64
symbols.
I have a method of
obtaining two an-
swers, one for 'yes'
and one for 'no'.
I have a self made
map of the world or
x amount of pos-
sible answers.
Throwing sticks a
number of times to
build u p a com-
plete hexagram.
Letting the pendu-
lum swing of its
own accord.
Determined by my
own ingenium.
Throwing the
sticks will give me
an answer to my
question.
Letting the pendu-
lum swing freely
will give me an an-
swer to my ques-
tion.
Step 3 means the
same as Step 1.
Throw the sticks,
generate the hexa-
gram
Let the pendulum
hang freely, wait to
see which way it
swings.
Perform step 3.
Occurred at the
end of step 5—
read the hexa-
gram.
Occurred at the
end of step 5.
Occurred at the end
of step 5.

ERM, W H A T DOES THAT M E A N ?
It means that explanation leads nowhere. Causality is
explanation—'this event is due to that event'. The
proliferation of explanation has seen a world in-
creasingly devoid of meaning. We know why
things do the things they do. We can explain the
functioning of the brain. We know how the uni-
verse can support life. But unless explanation is ac-
tually experienced, it doesn't mean anything.
Prophecy is not concerned with explanations or
identification with specifics; events and even the
symbols themselves (like 'you') are simply tokens.
In the case of magick, the events that take place
within the temple share the same nature as the
events to which we would normally assign the
idea of 'effect'. In other words, there is no differ-
ence between you (as part of the magical act) and
the series of events you would normally call 'the
result' (as both the magical act and the result, be-
ing a synchronicity, have the same meaning).
In other words, synchronicity is a dualistic ex-
pression of unity, and the more you experience
meaning (the recognition of a number of events
sharing the same nature) the more you become
aware of the experience itself as opposed to any of
the ideas we use to describe that experience.
Contrary to what many claim is an indulgence
in escapism, magick is therefore a process of mov-
ing into, rather than away from, what is real;
whereas explanation is to remove yourself from
what is actually happening new.

Magick is the ecstatic embrace of life, and the
resulting vision is prophecy.


1 4 . H O V E R BOARDS A N D SILVER LYCRA
O R :
'THE GREATEST ACT O F MAGICK THAT CAN BE
PERFORMED'
If you were asked to describe what the greatest
single act of magick is, what would you say? De-
pending upon how much experience you have,
you might say evoking a demon to visible appear-
ance, or the creation of a talisman to make yourself
a sex god. What about a ritual to win the lottery?
Sure, they all sound good, but they're a bit
transitory, and a wee bit materialistic. They're also
the result of the current obfuscation of the Western
Tradition.
What if, instead of a working to get one specific
material result, we could perform a ritual that
would give us the ability to achieve not just any
material result we desired, but everything we've
ever dreamed of—and furnish us with a complete
understanding of the universe to boot?
I can't be sure if what I'm about to describe ori-
ginated in the ancient African magical traditions,

but it was certainly practiced in ancient Egypt12,
Hellenistic Greece and Europe over the last couple
of centuries13. The greatest act of magick that can
be performed is called the Invocation of the Holy
Guardian Angel, or more recently, as the invoca-
tion of the future magical self It is considered com-
mensurate with performing the Great Work, and it
is the Core Practice of the Western tradition of ma-
gick.
Everything else in this book, whether it is sigils,
divination, evocation, possession, or meditation, is
Support Practice and preparation for the Core
Practice. Without this preparation, the means of
manifestation for success in the Core Practice is
severely limited. However, mastery of the Support
Practices is not required as some transcendental
magicians believe, and there is no need to spend
years on end perfecting the various magical acts
outlined in this book. Familiarity will suffice—
once the lines are connected, the angel can speak,
so why spend years polishing the phone before
picking it up?
THE CHEESE H A S SLID O F F H I S CRACKER
Whether we call it the Holy Guardian Angel
(HGA) or the future magical self is of no con-
sequence; it is simply a token representation that
allows us to invoke (and so become) that which is
completely beyond our current conception. If it
helps, we can consider it a being with unlimited
12. See The Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage.
13. See Crowley's Liber Samekh.

magical power, unbound by space and time, and
beyond life and death, but no idea we have is big
enough to describe it. Hence, it is the embodiment of
revelation at all levels, and so of magical power.
Ultimately, it is the non-dual itself.
Although I will refer to this entity as your 'fu-
ture magical self, it is completely independent
from what you presently know as 'yourself'. It
must be remembered that this being is not you. It is
neither the best parts of yourself, nor how you
would wish to be. Permanent identification with
an over-blown idea (of yourself or anything else)
will only send you stark raving bonkers. Remem-
ber: the HGA is not an idea, but the literal embodi-
ment of that which is beyond conception.
As the nature of initiatory development is fun-
damentally revelatory, it is not possible to know at
any given point upon the path what is necessary to
advance (as we cannot know what the effects of a
practice might be until we have been transformed
by that practice, let alone where we are 'advancing'
to), although we can make a pretty good guess. If
we consider the HGA as the embodiment of that
path (being your future magical self), and therefore
the guru par excellence, once contact is made you
find that what is necessary for the next transforma-
tion is 'presented' or 'brought to you' by your
HGA (usually via synchronicity). No matter how
beneficial the practices are that constitute a self-im-
posed regime, they are not informed by your fu-
ture revelations and so can never yield the results
that working with your HGA will bring. This does-
n't mean that future work will not include the Sup-

port Practices performed prior to HGA contact; but
it does mean that you will work less for greater
results.
MAGICK
Like all magick, invoking your future magical self
can be as simple or as complicated as you like. A
good starting point is a banishing ritual (just so
you don't get conned by a gnome pretending to be
your HGA). However, it is imperative that you do
not banish at the end of the working—after all, it is
a process of transformation and so you want your
future magical self to stick around.
In much the same way you would contact other
entities, you can use/create/ discover a sigil or rep-
resentation of your future magical self, and then
talk to him/her/it; invoke them, like this: 'I invoke
you, my Holy Guardian Angel'. Again, asking
your HGA to contact you via a dream has also
proved useful, as have other divinatory tools such
as a pendulum or tarot deck. It must be re-
membered though that it may take a lot of work-
ings before actual manifestation occurs, and that
once it has, it is only the beginning of your work
with your future magical self, and just the tip of
the iceberg in your initiatory development.
Contact is also known as gaining the Know-
ledge and Conversation of the Holy Guardian An-
gel, and once it has occurred (you will have no
doubt of this when it does), you will receive all fu-
ture magical instruction or guidance directly from
your HGA (via the means of manifestation). You

will also discover a ten-fold improvement in your
magical practice, which is when the real fun be-
gins. There is no end to your work with the HGA,
and so the Core Practice of magick is a life-long en-
deavour.
EXERCISE 30
1. Devise a ritual to gain the Knowledge and
Conversation of your Holy Guardian Angel,
and invoke every day.


1 5 . ABSEILING
O R :
'THE INTEGRATION O F MAGICAL EXPERIENCE'
The daily practice of magick is the slow, steady
climb of a mountaineer. With each day you get
a little higher, and maybe a new perspective is
achieved. But at the end of each day you must
climb back down again because your supplies are
just too heavy to take with you. One day you may
even climb so high that you don't recognize any-
thing below you, even your camp—and this is
maybe ecstatic or terrifying—but you will certainly
be straight back down again as soon as you need a
shit.
C O M I N G D O W N
The process of initiation is gradual. There are no
sudden great leaps or changes into a new mode of
being at any of the levels of experience. As you
inust necessarily return to camp (your everyday
habitual viewpoint, -which allows you to eat, sleep
and interact with fellow humans), it is imperative

that experiences represented by the zenith of the
climb are integrated into the everyday consensual
conception of self, when you come back down
again.
Special attention should be paid to any ideas
you must necessarily form after non-consensual
experiences; it must also be borne in mind that
these ideas are nothing more than representations,
or metaphors, for the experience itself.
As an example, maybe you have an experience
you might later feel the need to refer to as 'being
one with the Godhead'. This poses no danger to
your sanity. However, should you then decide you
must be able to walk through traffic, as you are
clearly God made flesh, then you would have
failed to integrate the experience in a useful or
healthy way, with only a possible relocation to the
loony bin to look forward to. Believing in any idea
you might form about a non-consensual experi-
ence, such as a mystical trance, out of body experi-
ence or weird synchronicity is akin to the moun-
taineer who raves about the wonderful view, when
he is actually inside his tent.
BIG BALLOON
Ego inflation is perhaps the most common result of
bad integration. If you mix the fact you experience
(on a daily basis) things that the majority of people
do not yet understand, an historical attitude of elit-
ism, and the feeling of power that magick elicits,
you can see that it wouldn't take much to convince
yourself you might just be the next Prophet of the

New Aeon14, or that perhaps you are under surveil-
lance by a secret organisation hell-bent on prevent-
ing you from saving the world.
If there is one thing to keep in mind when form-
ing ideas about these experiences it is this: you are
not the first, last or only person to have these ex-
periences. Many have gone before, and many will
come after, because these experiences are a funda-
mental aspect of the human condition.
Besides: apart from your weird friends, no one
really cares.
CURDLED M I L K
Now, any discussion of magick and mental health
would not be complete without mentioning para-
noia, which usually takes the form of a suspected
magical attack.
If anyone ever tells you they're under magical
attack, punch them in the face. You can always tell
them Eldrid the Bastard Warlock made you do it.
You see, short of a demon harassing your un-
mentionables, how can you tell? How can you
claim stubbing your toe was a synchronicity
caused by the Black Lodge of the Hairy Pit, when
no cause can be apparent?
The fact of the matter is, you can be magically
attacked, but you might as well as ignore anything
you think is the result of a curse, because you can
never be sure.
14. How many more of those do w e need? I do believe we are
now in the Fifth FanDaimonAeon of Horus-Maat-Set with the
Age of Aquarius on the horizon and the Eschatological Singu-
larity just pulling over for a quick pee break.

If you think you are being attacked, or that
some evil force is watching you with a view to ru-
ining your life, you need to re-read the Big balloon
section again.
TRUST M E , I ' M N O T A DOCTOR
Magick doesn't only pose a danger to your sanity.
Yes, there is megalomania, paranoia and obsession;
but there can also be many positive changes to
your mental health through practicing magick. It is
a privilege of the magician to function as his or her
own psychotherapist. After all, who is in a position
to know your mind better than yourself?
When practiced well, magick can increase your
happiness and understanding of the world, as well
as providing a means of exploring and integrating
difficult past experiences or issues. Life can be-
come easy in a way you never thought possible,
and you can even lose your fear of death.
THE PROPHETIC NARRATIVE AS G O O D INTEGRATION
If we consider the world from the viewpoint of the
prophetic narrative, the risk of paranoia and ego-
mania are greatly reduced (for an in-depth discus-
sion of prophecy, please see the previous chapter).
Without causality, life becomes an experience in-
stead of a thought about that experience. As such,
where can ludicrous ideas, such as events being
the result of some spurious evil force (as evidence
of magical attack or surveillance), take root?

If there is no difference between yourself and
any other phenomenon, how can the ego take pre-
cedence?
It must be remembered that I am not positing an
argument concerning the truth of reality; I am
simply presenting the safest method of integration
I have encountered. You neither need to agree or
disagree, but it is possible, and advisable, for you
to corroborate what I'm claiming by experiencing
these things for yourself by performing the experi-
ment of magick.
EXERCISE 31
1. Practice magick everyday until synchronicity
becomes a permanent adaptation.
W I N G S
Alongside the benefits outlined in chapter 14, the
invocation of the future magical self leads to a very
specific positive result for the magician.
Traditions that teach a concept of immanence,
such as Sufism, present a view of justice as an act
of adjustment. As all things are holy, or part of the
non-dual level of experience, nothing is intrinsic-
ally 'bad' or 'evil'. Any discord in the self or com-
munity is necessarily a result of things being in the
wrong place, or things trying to do what they are
not fit for. Justice is an act of re-aligning those
things to their correct orbit, rather than any idea of
revenge or punishment.

This must necessarily become the viewpoint of
the magician who has successfully invoked his or
her future magical self. Unhappiness is the result
of forcing something to go where it shouldn't (al-
though I imagine some people would disagree).
For instance, no matter how much I want to be a
presenter on a topical garden programme, the fact
that I look like a camel means it's never going to
happen. Yet my encyclopedic knowledge of shrub-
bery, and my skill at draftsmanship, could make
me the greatest plant illustrator the world has ever
seen, if only I could see myself objectively. Just as a
climber (I'm milking it), after they have reached a
certain perspective, can look back down and see
the route clearly, devoid of any frustration or hard-
ship experienced whilst making the actual climb,
the same is true of the magician. An experience of
surrender to the future magical self allows a com-
plete and honest view of the constituent parts of
your being. It is possible to understand each of the
elements that make up all that you have experi-
enced and how they have necessarily 'led you' to
this point.
It is only then that you experience, and so come
to understand, your natural function as an insepar-
able and necessary part of the universe. Once you
stop trying to use those parts of yourself for things
they are not fit for, through the experience of a lar-
ger perspective, your constituent elements "fall into
place' (they will necessarily function in a perfect
fashion) and you discover that you have the
weight of the entire universe behind you as a res-
ult. If you allow yourself to do those things most

suited to you (which is something that must be ex-
perienced, not guessed at), you move into a much
easier and happier existence, as all of your ele-
ments are doing what they do best (which always
comes easy) and you cannot help but be satisfied.
READING THE W O R L D
Once you have the experience of seeing phenom-
ena in terms of adjustment, or of things necessarily
having their natural place, you adopt a wonderful
view of the world. I mentioned earlier that syn-
chronicity as a permanent adaptation, or prophecy,
equates to an existence where every event means
something. Coupled with the advent of the invoca-
tion of the Holy Guardian Angel every event
comes to mean something specifically in terms of
your life. This doesn't mean the habitual delusion
of solipsism, but the acute awareness of how your
existence fits in with the bigger picture. Reality be-
comes a feedback loop, and some have even sworn
'I will interpret every phenomenon as a particular
dealing of God with my soul' in an effort to facilit-
ate such a world view (see chapter 7 for my take
on magical oaths).
SHINY HAPPY PEOPLE
Most of the time, we entertain ideas that are com-
pletely at odds with experience. We exalt certain
ideas over others (such as TV presenter' over
'plant illustrator') usually as a result of cultural
and environmental conditioning. We believe cer-

tain phenomena are 'wrong' or 'bad' because they
are not the same as those things we decide are 'cor-
rect' or 'good'. This can spell a lifetime of misery if
you happen to be one of your 'bad' ideas.
However, the perspective of the future magical
self allows existence to be experienced as essen-
tially perfect by the very fact that it exists, because
value does not apply. Does this mean that a smack
in the face doesn't hurt, or that Hitler was a swell
guy?
No—this isn't a denial of actual experience, but
its embrace. Pain and suffering hurt just as much
as they always did, but they are allowed to arise
and pass with indifferent acceptance. Can you ima-
gine a world devoid of what might be considered
bad? To do so, that world would necessarily have
to be devoid of good. The Knowledge and Conver-
sation of the Holy Guardian Angel is therefore a
move beyond good and evil.
A genuine experience of a world saturated with
meaning will engender a unique feeling of certi-
tude. Knowing through experience that everything
is in its 'right place', or that you are necessarily
part of a process that is perfect, you cannot help
but understand that everything is not only going to
be alright, but absolutely fan-fucking-tastic in the
long run.
How compatible is a fear of the future with such
an understanding, when it has been gained
through actual experience?

LAB COAT
As wonderful as everything in this chapter sounds,
it is imperative you do not accept it at face value.
The contents of the book are just one person's take
on magick—how much of it is therefore likely to be
inaccurate, misrepresented or just plain folly?
It's very tempting when it comes to magick, es-
pecially as a beginner, to talk a lot about the ideas
presented in magical texts as if they were the truth;
but if the experiment is not performed, and the res-
ults are not verified by independent enquiry, then
any discussion or opinion of those ideas is essen-
tially meaningless.
Remember: If you don't practice, you don't get
to vote!


1 6 . B U T SOMEONE W O U L D H A V E T O L D M E !
O R :
'THE DEFINITION O F MAGICK'
Hopefully, a definition of magick will reflect
the magical experience of the person proffer-
ing it; otherwise, we're listening to a charlatan. As
such, a definition can be as profound as 'magick is
the science and art of causing change to occur in
conformity with will15/ (and thinking about that for
a second implies a lot more than just a description
of a magical ritual), or as downright shallow as a
'set of tools'.
The definition I offer is an attempt at accounting
for all the various aspects of magick described in
the previous chapters of this book, which are all in-
formed by actual experience (and if you have been
doing the exercises, hopefully you will find this
definition satisfactory).
Here it is:
Magick is the art, science and culture of experien-
cing truth.
15. See Aleister Crowley's Magick in Theory and Practice.
151

This definition recognises that:
Magick is the art of experiencing truth. In other
words, you can choose any experience (say, dan-
cing around in your underpants), decide what that
experience will mean ('it will rain'), undergo the
experience (perform the dance), thus rendering the
given meaning true (it will rain, because I have ex-
perienced the fact 'it will rain'. Experience is the
truth). See chapter 3 for more on this. What can be
experienced using magick is limited only by your
imagination (the subjective), but how that experi-
ence manifests is limited by the available means of
manifestation (the objective).
Magick is the science of experiencing truth. The
truth isn't simply an idea, nor is it found in the rel-
ative or arbitrary nature of ideas; truth is experien-
tial, and the practice of magick will lead you to an
understanding of existence based on direct experi-
ence, not speculation. By its very nature, life is rev-
elatory and so more incredible than any word or
idea we can ascribe to it. You need only perform
the experiment and corroborate this for yourself!
Magick is the culture of experiencing truth. Magick
necessarily includes sociological and ethical im-
plications, whether they are consciously addressed
or not. These range from whatever magical tradi-
tion, aesthetic, teaching or approach you ascribe to,
to how you tackle the endless ethical dilemmas
you will face on an ongoing basis as a magician.
See chapter 1 for more on this.
Magick is not simply a method of manifesting
material results, nor is meditation simply mysti-

cism. There is no distinction between Western and
Eastern methods of experiencing the truth; there is,
and always has been, only one movement, one
school, and one aim; in the West, we know it as
magick.
SIMPLICITY
It is the simplicity of magick that prevents every
man, woman and child on this planet from real-
ising that they have the ability to fashion their real-
ity as they see fit.
What follows below is not an attempt at provid-
ing an explanation for why or how magick works,
but an illustration of the fact that experience is the
truth:
If I decide that an experience means T will meet
an alien', and I undergo that experience, I will
have had an experience that means 'I will meet an
alien'; that experience is true, and so as it is in a fu-
ture tense, 1 must necessarily have the experience
of meeting an alien in the future.
If I decide that an experience means 'I am
happy', and I undergo that experience, that experi-
ence is true, and so I will have had the experience
of being happy.
If 1 decide that an experience means 'I found
some money', and I undergo that experience, that
experience is true; and as it is in the past tense, I
must necessarily have an experience that corrobor-
ates the occurrence of finding that money in the
past.

Any intentional act is an act of magick, because
an act is the rendering of an intention, belief or de-
cision into an experience.
CLOSED FOR REFURBISHMENT
Magick means you can change as much or as little
of yourself as you like. You can remake your his-
tory, take control of your immediate environment
and dictate your own future. Remember: if you
didn't make one of the decisions that make you up,
some one else did. You must ask yourself: did
whoever it was that made those decisions for me
have my best interests at heart, or even know what
they were doing?
More importantly: did they have any taste?

1 7 . R o w Y O U R B O A T
O R :
' A PROPHECY'
Humanity loves catastrophe. This is best ex-
pressed in the thousands of apocalypses
we've survived. Again and again, from funda-
mentalist crack-pots to learned academics, we have
been warned that the end is nigh and given precise
dates and times for the destruction of the human
race by earthquake, plague, famine, meteorite, ali-
ens, God, cosmic rays, climate change ad nauseum.
What can I say? We're pretty robust.
Yet our fervor for such delights isn't abating; on
the contrary, it's reaching boiling point. To name
but a few imminent catastrophes, we can expect
doom any day now courtesy of Hopi, Mayan and
Inca prophesies, sun spot escalation, the con-
sequences of global warming, the peak oil crisis,
and a Terminator-esque technological singularity.
I'm pretty sure that suffering, pain, misery and
death features low on most people's 'things to do
today7 lists, so why this fascination with the extinc-
tion of the species?

GIBBERISH
Although the apocalypse is usually regarded as the
end of the world (i.e. it will cease to exist), as de-
picted in The Book of Revelation, occult eschatology
is concerned with not just the end of the world, but
also the birth of a new one. In other words, the
eschaton is the end of a world, not the end of the
world.
The study of the various models used to delin-
eate the numerous possible worlds, and their
transition points, is known as Aeonics.
Imagine if you will, that existence is holograph-
ic—what is true of the part is true of the whole.
Now consider the fact that we are initiates, going
through a process epitomised by the future magic-
al self. Would the same not also be true of the plan-
et? Or the universe? Therefore can it be that not
only is the world itself undergoing a process of ini-
tiation, but there is in fact a future magical world16?
Aeonics is for the world what magical develop-
mental models or maps are for the individual.
However, short of an advanced initiated alien race
providing us with a developmental map of the
process their world has been through, how can we
know what to expect in the next step of our
worldly evolution?
16. By this I don't mean a world where everyone is a practi-
cing magician. What applies to the idea of a future magical
self applies to a future magical woild; it is a token representa-
tion of revelation, or initiatory development, but on a global
scale.

There are three options: we make an educated
guess, we use magick and make a prophecy, or we
receive a teaching from a non-human intelligence.
An example of a model based on guesswork
would be the psychohistory model outlined in
Liber Kaos by Peter Carroll, and although no specif-
ic dates are given we are thought to be in the Pan-
demon (good, isn't it?).
The Hopi model, where 2013 marks the begin-
ning of the Fifth World, of which there are seven, is
an example of Aeonics based on prophecy.
ARE W E THERE YET?
In 1904, Mr. Aleister Crowley, after receiving a little
book known as Liber AL vel Legis from a non-hu-
man intelligence, was pretty convinced he had
ended the old world (the Aeon of Osiris) and had
ushered in the next, known as the Aeon of Horus.
Although this immediately preceded a period in
history so bloody and horrific we had never seen
its like (which appears to have been prophesied
within the text), a general confusion has reigned
ever since as to the Aeon's actual manifestation.
Did it actually begin in 1904? Has it ended yet, or
are we still in it? How the hell can we tell?
Since Crowley, we have also had the advent of
the Aeon of Ma'at (with another new book), the
Aeon of Set (with yet another new book), and I do
believe we are somewhere near (or in?) the
Chaoist's Fifth Aeon (they don't need a book, ap-
parently).

Which one is right? Are they all true? Why
won't someone tell me what's going on here?
PEACE, M A N
During the 60s, the New Age movement hoped to
usher in a new world known as the Age of Aquari-
us. Unlike magicians, New Agers know exactly
what to expect. After the little nightmare we've
known as history, the Age of Aquarius will be
rather nice: there'll be free love for everyone, a spe-
cies wide conversion to Buddhism, dolphins will
communicate with us telepathically, and everyone
will live happily ever after.
Thank the gods that hasn't happened yet.
I ' M SO EXCITED
Based on a striking number of prophecies, the
counter culture's current favourite date for the oc-
currence of the Eschaton, or the advent of the new
world, is 21st December 2012.
On this date, the Fifth Great Cycle (of a 25,800
year precession of the equinoxes) of the Mayan
Long Count Calendar will come to an end.
This date has been lent more credence as the
end of the world by the work of counter-culture-
mushroom-maniac Terence McKenna. Using the I
Ching and a whole bunch of entheogens, Terence
constructed a graph that demonstrates the influx of
novelty into history, predicting an infinite occur-
rence of novelty on 21st December 2012.

What this predicted 'singularity at the end of
time' will be no one knows, although there has
been some New Age speculation that the entire hu-
man race will undergo a mass ascension to a high-
er realm of spirituality. Obviously.
A N D I JUST C A N ' T H I D E IT
In terms of humanity undergoing a mass ascension
to a new level of spiritual awareness, you can ex-
pect, as a cause, alien contact, when our friends
from space will teach us the error of our ways;
some kind of cosmic ray or wave that will mutate
our DNA, beamed from the center of the galaxy
once planetary alignment with the galactic centre
occurs; the switching of the sun's electromagnetic
field at the peak of its sun spot activity, which will
directly affect our pineal glands; the return of as-
sorted messiah figures; or a forced reformation of
society brought about by any number of natural
catastrophes, such as floods, earthquakes, meteor-
ites, etc, or nuclear devastation.
Personally, I hope they all happen at once.
Poo
Unfortunately, I do not expect them to.
Most end-time predictions are easy to dismiss if
all they posit is some kind of catastrophic event.
For example, hundreds of maniac astronomers
claim a collision between the earth and a rogue as-
tronomical body is imminent every year, and it's
pretty easy to verify whether or not the evidence

supports this. To claim that Jesus is going to re-
appear next Thursday is unverifiable either way, so
you might as well as forget about it.
However, what happens when you know for
certain an event will occur that means the end of
the world, and the birth of a new one, but there is
no evidence for a cause of that implied meaning?
What meaning will the events on this planet
have on 21st December 2012?
We don't have to look very far for an event, on
that date, that might indicate a synchronicity.
BIG M O M M A
Mayan cosmology is intrinsically linked with as-
tronomy. Our sun is known as First Father, and the
Milky Way itself as Great Mother. The Great Moth-
er is said to have given birth to the First Father in
order to mate with him and create the world, with
the black hole at the centre of the Milky Way as her
womb.
On 21st December 2012, the ecliptic and the
Milky Way will align perfectly with the sun. This is
a specific, verifiable, astronomical event.
Mythologically speaking, the First Father will
again have sex with the Great Mother, and a new
world will be born.
Ooh.
Of course, deciding to see this astronomical
event in mythological terms is only possible if we
accept the astrological viewpoint. The Mayan
prophecy of the birth of a new world is a divinat-
ory result along the same lines as the Hopi proph-

ecy of 'the end of The Great Purification' by 2013,
or the pseudo-scientific synchronicities of McKen-
na's Timewave.
W E ' R E ALL G O I N G T O D I E
The problem with understanding what all of these
prophesies predict, in terms of specific events that
will occur in 2012, is exactly the same problem
found when attempting to ascertain 'where we are'
in regards to Aeonics.
The symbols used within these prophecies,
whether Mayan (astrological events) or pseudo-sci-
entific (Timewave Zero), are a means of manifest-
ing the results of divination. They are the equival-
ent of a tarot reading made for the world.
As such, a prophecy can only predict events or
experiences within the confines of the meaning of
the symbols used to make that prophecy. The May-
an prophecy predicts a new world will be born. It
does not predict the human race being toasted by
cosmic rays, an alien encounter or a nuclear cata-
strophe.
Similarly, the symbols used to demarcate the
various worlds (such as the Thelemic Isis, Osiris,
Horus model) are only indicators of what meaning
various experiences in those specific worlds will
have, not the specific events themselves.
Many believe the world is simply the planet
earth, hence they see the materialisation of the end
of the world as a global catastrophic event.
However, if we consider the world in terms of ex-
perience, we can see that there is a lot more to ex-

istence than simply walking on a giant rock. There
is subjective mental phenomena, such as attitude
and disposition, identity and emotional experi-
ence; sociological phenomena from the family unit
all the way up to international organisation; cultur-
al experience such as art, politics, philosophy, reli-
gion, fashion, music, magick, science and techno-
logy; not to mention the various levels of experi-
ence outlined in chapter 9.
We can consider the world as the total possible
means of manifestation.
If we want to know whether or not an Aeonic
model fits our experience, we need to consider
whether or not the symbolism used matches what
is experienced in the various possible mea?is of mani-
festation.
If we want to understand what a prophecy actu-
ally means, we need to consider how the meaning of
the symbolism used can manifest.
The Mayan prophecy of 2012 predicts the birth
of a new world: in other words, the occurrence of
something new within the total possible means of
manifestation, or a revolution in human experi-
ence.
The end of the world does not mean the end of
the total possible means of manifestation, but the
end of what currently manifests within those
means.

EXERCISE 3 2
1. Investigate as many Aeonic models as pos-
sible, and work out how many different
worlds we are in.
2. Investigate as many prophecies as possible,
and work out how these prophecies might
manifest.
EGG O N M Y FACE
The notion that there is a future magical world, or
that existence is initiatory, is a result of realising
that experience is revelatory. Any Aeonic model
(and any personal developmental model for that
matter) that accurately describes our current situ-
ation, and that which has gone before, must in-
clude the inescapable fact that existence is a move-
ment towards truth.
For example, within the Mayan Aeonic model,
we are approaching the end of the period in his-
tory known as the Fifth Sun, where the god Hun-
ahpu has restored the kingdom of the First Father.
In other words, the human race was prophesied to
slowly return to an understanding of conscious-
ness. The Fifth Sun will end and this understand-
ing will be complete on 21st December 2012.
Similarly, the Thelemic Aeonic map puts us in
the Aeon of Horus, where the Crowned and Con-
quering Child has come to restore the Kingdom of
his father, Osiris. Again, symbolising the process of
the human race gaining a new understanding of

existence (the nature of which is found in the sym-
bolism of Horus).
It's no surprise then that if we fail to recognise
experience as truth, and existence as initiatory, any
transition points within an accurate model must
appear to predict the end of the world.
Humanity's apparent obsession with the apoca-
lypse is a result of the inescapable experience of
the initiatory process, without understanding what
that process actually means.
No wonder there is a proliferation of nonsense
concerning 2012.
EXERCISE 33
1. Using as many methods of divination as pos-
sible, prophesy the events of 21st December
2012.
EASY DOES IT
It is important to recognise that both the Thelemic
and Mayan Aeonics (as well as many more be-
sides) predict a gradual death and rebirth, from
one world to the next. In terms of the Mayan
prophecy it does not predict the occurrence of a
massive 'revelatory' event, such as a meeting with
our space brothers. What will happen on 21st De-
cember 2012 is already happening now, but to a
lesser extent.
So just what is this new viewpoint or way of un-
derstanding the world, slowly growing in our cul-

ture, which will eventually revolutionise human-
ity?
EXERCISE 34
1. Consider the following current events:
At the time of writing, Iran is currently un-
dergoing an explosion of interest in Sufism,
with an estimated five million practitioners
today, compared to just 100,000 in 1979; 73
percent of all American teenagers, and over
half of British teens, are experimenting with
the occult; and a team of leading scientists
are actually conducting experiments, with
mind bending results, into the nature of time
and the phenomenon of telepathy, with the
Global Consciousness Project.
See how many current events you can find that
share a nascent, transitional, or initiatory meaning.
2. Ask yourself: what does the fact I am reading
this book mean?
R S V P
The revolution predicted by the various magical
Aeonics and prophecies is intimated by the grow-
ing prevalence of magick (and other methods of
experiencing truth) in society right now. The ines-
capable nature of experience as revelation is not
just the basis for Aeonics, but its subject. All future

states within Aeonics are characterised by a greater
increase in the experience of truth. Revelation is al-
ways coming.
The understanding of magick is an increasing
phenomenon within a growing number of possible
means of manifestation. It is only a matter of time
before it is the means of manifestation.
In other words, the future magical world is al-
most here.

RECOMMENDED R E A D I N G
CHAOS M A G I C
Liber Null & Psychonaut by Peter Carroll
Liber Kaos by Peter Carroll
Condensed Chaos by Phil Hine
Chaotcrpia! by Dave Lee
S.S.O.T.B.M.E by Ramsey Dukes
Thundersqueak! by Ramsey Dukes
ALEISTER CROWLEY
Gems from the Equinox (if you buy one Crowley
book buy this—it contains all of Crowley's practic-
al instructions and holy books)
The Book of the Law
The BookofThoth
777
Little Essays Toward Truth
Konx Om Pax
The Vision and the Voice
The Book of Lies

Magick Without Tears
Magick in Theory and Practice
Eight Lectures on Yoga
JULIUS EVOLA
The Hermetic Tradition
The Doctrine of Awakening
The Yoga of Power
An Introduction to Magic
Eros and the Mysteries of Love
GEORGE IVANOVICH GURDJIEFF
Gurdjieff Unveiled (read this first—makes many of
his concepts clear and includes all of his practical
instructions)
Beelzebub's Tales to his Grandson
Meetings with Remarkable Men
Life is Only Real Then, When 7 Am'
AUSTIN O S M A N SPARE
The Book of Pleasure
The Focus of Life
Zos Speaks
The Artist's Books: 1905-1927 by Dr. W. Wallace
Michaelangelo in a Teacup by Frank Letchford
ROBERT A N T O N W I L S O N
Cosmic Trigger
Prometheus Rising

Illuminatus Trilogy
Quantum Psychology
MISCELLANEOUS
Coming Home by Lex Hixon
The Invisibles by Grant Morrison
Book of Lies by Disinformation
Promethea by Alan Moore
Sex Magic, Tantra & Tarot by DuQuette and Hyatt
Enochian Vision Magick by Lon Milo DuQuette
Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha by Daniel
Ingram

A B O U T T H E A U T H O R
Alan Chapman is a Western magician and writer, a
Magus of the A.'.A.", and a member of numerous
secret societies. His work has appeared in Fortean
Times and Chaos International, and he regularly con-
tributes to the award-winning occult website:
www.thebaptistshead.co.uk.
