Copyright 1986, 2004 by Karl Hans Welz
This course may not be reproduced in whole or in part by any means
without prior permission in writing from the author.
Address queries to: 	HSCTI, Box 1298, Woodstock, GA 30188
Published by HSCTI

I NTRODUCTION
Welcome!
This is not just another introduc-
tion into "magick" nor has it much to do
with the run off the mill book of "magick"
where you find at first some talk about
spirituality of magic, then somewhere
between pages 10 and 20 the tree of life,
then elaborate descriptions of rituals and
so on.
Magic existed long before the in-
vention of the tree of life. 	In fact, most
of the powerful magicians on our planet
do not even know the tree of life. 	Such
"lack of knowledge" does not inhibit their
power at all. 	Evidently there must be
some principle in magic that goes beyond
religious doctrine. There must be a magi-
cal science that we can develop from the
common functioning principle (CFP) of all
magic. 	Equalling magic with the tree of
life or any other outcropping of religious
creeds would be to falsely identify the map
with the territory. 	The map is never the
territory it represents! 	Such identifica-
tion is always wrong, no matter how use-
ful the map may be at first.
The magical systems that have their roots
in the tree of life have been useful and to
some extent comprehensive. 	However,
the universe is not the tree of life. 	The
tree of life is just another mapping that is
of use for the magician.
The present time sees an expan-
sion of magical methods that is unheard
of as yet. 	At the same time students of
magic have access to an increasingly wide
LESSON 	I
range of very different magical systems
and traditions to practice. 	Most of these
systems are not outcroppings of a Judeo-
Christian religionism. Moreover, they are
incompatible with the cabalistic system
and its tree of life, but equally powerful
and at least equally spiritual. 	It is my
opinion that the tree of life and all other
religious mappings have no predominant
usefulness for the magician of the third
millennium who practices magic on a sci-
entific basis. 	The science of magic in its
true form is a science, not a religious act
as thought until now. 	In the old days
magic was forbidden, religion had to be
used as a coverup, hiding the true magi-
cal form which is finally out in the open
today. I will show in the following lessons
why this is so.
This course will
introduce you to the
common functioning
principles of all known
magical practices and
systems. It is a mod-
ern approach that
transcends the quietly
assumed connection
between 	magical
practice and specific
religious doctrines.
This approach will al-
low you to come to a
scientific understand-
ing of the processes
that 	underlie 	all
known 	forms 	of
magic.
Then you will realize that the religious
clothing of the practice is different in ev-
ery culture and that 	you need no reli-
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	3

gious facade at all to be a powerful magi-
cian.
If you use your car to drive some-
where you are free to pray five Lord's
prayers and three Hail Marys' or you may
even chant the sacred "OM" one hundred
and eight times before you start your ve-
hicle. It is my opinion that the car engine
starts just as well if you simply turn the
ignition key. 	The same holds with any
magical practice. Once you know the sci-
entific principles of magic you will be able
to work it in any surrounding without the
ballast of religion-based "ritual."
To practice magic free from the
ballast of any tradition has another ad-
vantage. 	Freedom of thinking leads to
ever new and more powerful technology.
It is a well-known fact that tradition was
always a roadblock to the advancement
of any science and that religion was al-
ways an obstacle to science itself. "Purity
of tradition" and the belief in the infallibil-
ity books that are thought to be Divinely
inspired usually leads to rejection of in-
novative ideas and quite often to the or-
ganized killing of persons who advance
such innovative ideas! 	Tradition cannot
4 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com
Karl Hans Welz, Inventor of the
Orgone Generator® and
Author of this Course
Karl Hans Welz is from
Telfs in Tyrol, near Innsbruck,
Austria. At a very early age, he has
developed a fascination for science
in general and for the stars in
particular.
Consequently, he has read eagerly any
book on astronomy, astrophysics, mathematics
and physics that he could get hold of. At age 16,
he became interested in the subject of hypnosis.
He began studying this discipline, later he
perfected Autogenic Training and eventually, at
age 18, he began the practice of Hatha Yoga.
This practice strengthened his then frail body
within a few weeks and his overall condition and
health improved considerably. Quite naturally,
these spectacular results gave Karl an incentive
to explore other sciences that were not part of
his academic curriculum. Studies and practice
in astrology, practical magic, rune magic, and
practice of various forms of life energy
technology such as astral traveling and
clairvoyance followed within one year. He studied
the 	works 	of 	Mesmer, 	Korschelt, 	von
Reichenbach, Tesla, Lahkowski, and others. At
age 19, Karl began his graduate studies in
mathematics and physics. Several times, he
interrupted his academic studies to travel
extensively. In the course of these travels, he
gained valuable information about magical
practices and the use of life force in many
cultures and traditions and he met many gifted
teachers and adepts on the subject matter.
During his stays in South Africa,
Switzerland, Berlin, and, since 1974, the United
States of America, he continued his studies, which
he then rounded off with general semantics,
radionics, Reichian psychology, and orgone
physics. Shortly after his arrival in the United
States, he built his first orgone accumulators and
conducted multiple experiments with these
amazing devices. It was obvious that what Reich
called orgone was the same form of energy that
he had explored for more than a decade before
knowing of Reich. In fact, a device he built years
earlier following the plans of Korschelt was an
orgone accumulator. Korschelt called his device
a “Solar Ether Radiation Apparatus” — its plans
are dating back to 1897. Mesmer’s barrels with
iron filings, also built and tested by Welz years
before he studied Reich, were obviously the
earliest orgone accumulators of which we know
that were built by a scientist with the
accumulation of life force in mind. Therefore,
we can safely say that Franz Anton Mesmer has
invented the life force accumulator one and a
half centuries before Reich.
Soon he realized that orgone can be
projected at any distance and that this projection
follows structural links. This is a fact that was
evident to people of all ages and cultures who
harnessed life force, such as shamans, conjurers,
spiritual workers, magicians, and healers. For
this type transfer he had to develop a

practice and a no- nonsense guide to de-
velop the skills that are helpful in this prac-
tice.
WHAT 	IS 	MAGIC?
I do not plan to burden you down
with a proper definition of this word im-
mediately. 	You know that with the word
magic we describe a specific class of prac-
tices that we can use to bring about
change. In the following we will examine
what type of practices fall under the defi-
nition of magic and what the elements of
these practices are. From this we will de-
velop an elementary mapping, or theory,
that will help you understand the various
technologies, or systems, of magic and
develop your magical skills easily and rap-
idly.
Let's begin with a few scenarios of
well-known practices that we call "magic."
Case #1: An old recipe to heal a person
is to pull seven hairs of that person. Then
drill a hole into a vigorous tree and put
the seven hairs into the hole. 	Then plug
the hole with the wood of the same tree.
The person will feel better.
Case #2: 	A "doctor" fabricates a doll.
He puts hair and fingernails, or clothing,
of the target into the doll. Then, perhaps
at a precalculated time, he goes to a
graveyard and puts the doll into an open
grave. The person whom he targets may
get sick, perhaps may even die.
Case #3: 	An old recipe against wounds
that pus: Take some of the pus out of the
wound with a cotton swab and put it into
copper sulfate. 	The wound heals a lot
faster.
Case #4: Set up a ceremonial table with
candles, incenses, etc. On a piece of pa-
per draw a square with some letters in-
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	5
mathematical model that accounts for this
phenomenon. This model also accounts for many
of the amazing phenomena of ESP, magic,
radionics, even astrology.
In 1992, he invented the orgone
generator®. This extraordinary new device is a
significant step beyond the mere accumulating
of orgone energy as happens inside the orgone
accumulator. Furthermore he realized soon that
pulsed orgone energy (which an orgone
generator can produce — or a rotating planet)
transforms DOR (deadly orgone) back into
orgone energy. The problem of “orgone
accumulators going bad” when afflicted by DOR
was 	successfully 	counteracted 	with 	a
technological device for the first time in known
history. More striking proof of this characteristic
of orgone generators® became evident when
he invented a DOR generator. The orgone
generators TM 	proved 	to 	be 	effective 	in
counteracting the negative effects of devices that
develop 	DOR 	when 	operating, 	such 	as
radioactive smoke detectors, fluorescent tubes,
TV screens, and other electromagnetic pollution.
The orgone accumulating devices on the other
hand, are ineffective. In fact, these devices “foul
up”, i.e., when exposed to deadly orgone (DOR)
too long, they accumulate it and consequently
become centers of this energy.
Soon Karl Welz recognized that the
orgone generator® can be a significant help in
many practices involving the use of life energy
(or orgone) such as the development and practice
of ESP, magic, self improvement, and trend
generation with the help of astrological energies.
Extensive testing confirmed that orgone that is
pulsed in low frequencies (Alpha, Theta, Delta
states, etc.) is considerably more effective to
cause the corresponding brain wave states than
any one of the now obsolete methods that use
sound, light, or electric pulses.
The orgone generator® has been on the
market since early 1993. Tens of thousands of
people all over the world who decided to have
an edge in their aspirations are now the proud
owners of these devices. In 1994, Mr. Welz
invented a new orgone accumulating material
(orgonite®) that is significantly more effective
than the traditional materials such as layers of
steel wool and fiberglass or celotex. This new
material 	allows 	making 	powerful 	orgone
generators® of very small size!
live on "as is" when innovation shows new
ways that prove to be more useful, or
worse, free the thinking of people. That's
the reason why these traditionalists who
typically lack creativity are almost always
in the forefront of hostility towards
progress. 	If you want to develop your
magical skills to a maximum, you will do
well to get rid of the strait jacket that
traditions have imposed on you!
The purpose of this course is to give
you a scientific understanding of magical

side. To the left and to the right sides of
the square write the names of the people
who should fall in love. Project your own
energy into the letter square and the pa-
per. 	Then burn the paper.
Case #5: 	A radionics specialist takes a
"black box," or radionics device. Using a
pendulum or the stick pad on the device,
she determines the settings of the dials
that help in lawsuits. 	Then she puts the
photo of the person whom she helps on
the stick pad. She leaves the device "on"
until the results show.
Case #6: 	In a charismatic church the
preacher initiates a prayer to heal in his
congregation. The person that he intends
to heal is far away.
ACTION 	AT 	A 	DIS -
TANCE
What do these cases have in com-
mon? The first thing that comes into our
minds is the following:
MAGIC IS ACTION
It is action that has the goal to
bring about a change: change in an indi-
vidual, in a group of individuals, or of a
situation. The attempt to bring change is
a characteristic of all living beings. 	It is
interaction with the environment.
The second common denominator
of these cases is that the target of the
action appears to be distant. 	For the
moment, we can say:
MAGIC IS ACTION AT A DISTANCE.
DISTANCE 	IS 	IRRELEVANT 	IN
MAGICAL WORK.
In this respect, magic expands our
capability to act upon our environment.
STRUCTURAL L INKS
Now let's consider a third impor-
tant factor: 	In every case the magician
uses something that represents the tar-
get of the action.
Case #1: Seven hairs (with follicles)
Case #2: Hair and Fingernails
Case #3: The same bacteria that are in
the wound.
Case #4: 	The written names and the
visual imagination of the people.
Case #5: 	The Photo of the person.
Case #6: 	The visual imagination in the
mind of the people who send the healing.
Magicians usually call this represen-
tative of the target, such as hair, finger-
nails, a photo, or clothing, "The psychic
link." 	For our purpose of putting magic
into a scientific language, we prefer the
term "structural link." The structural link
can be in any form that rhanges from
purely physical to purely mental, or imag-
ined.
6 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

If we analyze the six cases above
we come to the following conclusion: The
use of a structural link to the target makes
its distance to the magical operator irrel-
evant.
MAGIC IS ACTION UPON THE EX-
TENDED UNIVERSE, OR ACTION AT A
DISTANCE. 	THIS ACTION IS POS-
SIBLE WITH THE HELP OF A STRUC-
TURAL LINK TO THE TARGET.
How can we determine the nature
of the action? 	In each one of the cases
above we can find something that repre-
sents the desired action. The way in which
the magician represents a desired action
is very similar to the way he establishes
a structural link with the target of the ac-
tion.
Case #1: 	The health of the tree
Case #2: The doll decaying in the tomb
Case #3: 	The sample of bacteria being
destroyed in copper sulfate.
Case #4: 	The letter square.
Case #5: 	The setting of the radionics
device
Case #6: The visual imagination
of health in the minds of the members of
the congregation.
THE NATURE OF ACTION IS DETER-
MINED BY MEANS OF A STRUCTURAL
REPRESENTATION. 	THIS MEANS
THAT IN A MAGICAL ACTION YOU
WORK 	WITH 	TWO 	STRUCTURAL
LINKS: ONE THAT REPRESENTS THE
TARGET AND ANOTHER ONE THAT
REPRESENTS THE DESIRED ACTION
UPON THE TARGET.
The New Welz Chi Generator®
Is more than a generator of life
force
It is a way of life !!!
It is exciting new technology.
In fact, it is exclusively designed to make
Your deepest desires
become tangible reality !!!
WELCOME TO this exciting new
technology that can mean for you the
difference between average results
and TOTAL SUCCESS !!!
When operating a Welz Chi Generator, you can
find the ultimate perfection 	of a new
technology. This certainly is exciting news for
you, the Magician of the Future, provided that
you have this deep down desire for positive
permanent change and for the ultimate and
lasting success.
In fact, you can safely call this amazing new
technology the ultimate unfair advantage!
Unfair, because time-consuming practices,
grueling exercises, even spiritual training,
become secondary as compared to the ease with
which you can now set up this extraordinary
equipment to help you succeed in every
respect.
This new technology is exceptional, because it
opens up a whole new world of subtle methods
that will leave you entranced, enlightened, and
empowered. You will actually be equipped with
what is certainly the most advanced tech-
nology of power performance and effective
self-help.
For you, this can well be the first time that learning
about a technology will not only be useful, it will
be used. In fact, this will be a natural step
in the right direction of the success that you were
striving to achieve in the past. In the following,
you will find an outstanding new method to boost
your performance to the max. 	It is here that
you can probe the deepest in your journey to
the top. We are going to lay out this exciting
new technology for you so that you can gain
immediate evidence right at the beginning, from
where you will continue step by step to an increasingly
deeper grasp of its far reaching new applications!
Naturally, this is an easy and very effective
way to help you improve all your prospects for
the future. It is specifically designed to provide
you with powerful means to enhance your
performance in all areas of your life, especially
those that you feel need to be strengthened.
Whatever the line of your work or field of
endeavor is, be it relationships, business,
politics, 	high 	performance 	sports,
education, volunteering, spiritual matters,
or 	anything 	else, 	the 	highly 	effective
equipment from HSCTI is designed for a great
many uses, while helping you achieve results
whenever you use it appropriately.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	7

PSYCHIC
E NERGY
Now we have the following ques-
tion: How is action at a distance possible
and what determines the success of such
action? 	To find out we need to compare
magical practices that bring results with
those that do not work. The observation
of magicians throughout the ages showed
that a magical practice fails to bring the
expected results for one of two reasons:
1. there is psychic defense, blockage, or
any other interference.
2. 	there is insufficient psychic energy
raised.
The first point will be the object of
a later lesson. 	You will learn about psy-
chic defense and how to overcome inter-
ference.
The second point calls for further
examination. 	We want to analyze what
magicians do when they practice their art.
Case #1: 	The magician does nothing.
Is the power with the tree?
Case #2: 	It works even if the magician
does not raise a lot of psychic energy,
especially if the structural link to the tar-
get person is good, such as hair, finger-
nails, or clothing.
Case #3: 	No psychic energy is neces-
sary.
Case #4: 	This works only if the magi-
cian develops and projects a lot of psy-
chic power.
Case #5: 	It seems that trained magi-
cians or strongly emotional persons have
quicker success with radionics than oth-
ers.
Case #6: 	In a charismatic setting the
emotional power is at a peak.
Magicians of all ages knew of the
necessity to develop strong psychic pow-
ers, or magical powers, to be successful.
Only if the structural link is excellent and
when life energy is abundant from some
source other than themselves do they not
need to raise these powers. 	They real-
ized that life energy is the medium that
makes magical action possible. 	In fact,
our research has proven that life itself
would be impossible without magical in-
teraction with a distant environment:
NO LIFE WITHOUT MAGIC!
A strong field of life force allows
quick magical action. 	The stronger the
life energy that connects with the target,
the stronger the action upon the target
will be. 	Magicians of all ages knew that.
This power had many names such as
Prana, Chi, Psychic Power, Magical Power,
and Mana.
In Western countries several sci-
entists have established scientific models
of this energy. The models that they de-
veloped were in tune with the knowledge
of their times. A scientific model has many
advantages. 	Above all is the advantage
8 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

that we can develop new technologies
from a good scientific theory. This fact is
as valid for magic as it is valid for chemis-
try and physics!
The first person known in Western
history who developed a scientific model
of life energy was Franz Anton Mesmer.
He called life energy "animal magnetism."
He developed methods to magnetize
("mesmerize") people for healing. He also
set up devices that brought on a healing.
These devices were wooden barrels that
he had filled with iron filings and that had
iron rods sticking out. People who wanted
a healing held these rods in their hands.
Baron von Reichenbach called life
energy "Odic Force." He conducted thou-
sands of tests with more than a hundred
sensitive people and he developed a com-
prehensive theory concerning this energy.
Wilhelm Reich used the term
"Orgone" for life energy. 	His scientific
theory was the most advanced model of
life energy until the development of hyper
space mathematics. 	Wilhelm Reich in-
vented the orgone accumulator. He used
this device to charge people with life en-
ergies for a healing. He expanded on de-
scribing the characteristics of life energy.
Magicians knew all along that life
energy is necessary to make their actions
work. 	They knew "intuitively" about it.
Magicians usually can feel this energy. On
the basis of millennia of experience, they
use many practices to develop strong
fields of this energy. 	These practices
include many different methods such as
chanting, strong emotional outbursts,
group rituals, sex magical practices, reli-
gious emotionalism, and animal sacrifice.
An excellent way to have a continuous and
abundant supply of life energy is to use
the life energy (chi) generators that I in-
vented. 	You can receive more informa-
tion about this device when you either call
HSCTI at (770) 924 0223
or write HSCTI at PO Box 1298,
Woodstock, GA 30188m,
or go into www.magitech.com
Life Force makes it all possible!
This exciting test most certainly will be a
surprise for you!
Before you are going to routinely make use of
the orgone generator® to power up your magickal
operations so that you can achieve secured
success, you can carry out this experiment. This
will certainly help you gain the evidence that you
wanted and it will prove to you what you have
read in this course, namely that Life Force
Bridges any Distance!
This experiment and its discussion of it will
reveal to you...
The basic principles of a new and far-
reaching Life Force Technology
A much deeper understanding of the working
of Radionics than the shallow, unscientific and
“New Agey” explanations using worse-than-pop-
scientific 	catch-words 	such 	as 	“quantum
mechanics”, “relativity” and the like
The importance of Life Force and Low Frequency
Technology in Competitive Sports, Weight Loss,
Fitness Training and Body Building
A comprehensive view of Methods of Self-
Improvement and Techniques of Motivation for
positive permanent change, and
A general grasp of ESP, psychic skills,
shamanism, mind control, and other methods of
Action at a Distance, and Magick!
The Transfer Test
1. Put this open page on a
flat surface. 	It should be a
minimum of 2 ft (60 cm)
away from your body or any
other larger living organism.
2. Now, hold the center of the
palm 	of 	either 	hand
approximately one inch (2 –
3 cm) above the printout of
the diagram.
Be sure that your hand is relaxed: open, and not
stretched out!
Most people will be surprised to feel something
almost immediately: You feel either a slight
tingling in your hand, a gentle cool breeze, or, as
is the case with most people, an agreeable
sensation of warmth in the center of your palm
that can spread out from the palm…and…
Yes!!! You have just felt life force! For
many, this experience is a first in their life.
As you know by now, life force is the subtle energy,
or “psychic power”, that is used in all methods of
action at a distance, such as the magick of the
future that you are learning in this course.
You can feel life force emanating from the printed
diagram, because an identical diagram, which
serves as a structural link, is in front of one of
the Welz Chi Generators® in our laboratories.
This means that you can use technology to
harness and direct Life Force.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	9

You can get still better results when you call us
at (770) 924 0223 (USA) for an individualized
hook-up or e-mail karl@welz.net for further
instructions to test energy transfer at any
distance.
The Proof
This extraordinary test proves to you first
hand that which sensitive and powerful persons
of all times (among them tai chi masters, reiki
masters, yogis, shamans, conjurers, magicians,
and priests performing spiritual work) knew all
along: namely that life force (chi, prana, mana,
etc... every culture and language has its own
name for the same energy) transfers at any
distance. Moreover, it does so without loss of
energy. All that is needed is the right structural
link (some professionals prefer to call it “psychic
link”) to establish contact. 	This fact makes their
work possible, even easy! In fact, it is so easy
that everybody is now capable of working the
magic of professional psychics, shamans, spiritual
workers, etc.
This has been one of the reasons why many of
these professionals decided to guard their
powerful secrets like precious gems, making them
available only to very few hand picked people.
Under no circumstances did they want to lose
their lucrative sources of income.
The Conclusion
This experiment revealed to you one of the
most guarded secrets of all ages, namely the
transfer of life force (“magical energy” or “psychic
energy”) at any distance. More importantly: you
have just found out that these secrets are
technology, yours to use. You have just
experienced that the effects of any type of
shamanism, magic, or spiritual work, such as
changing your life for the better, can be achieved
by now easily with the help of our powerful
technology.
It is powerful technology in your hands …
... For lasting success and for positive
permanent change !!!
The RAD 5, Top of the Line Advanced
Radionics Device that matches the PR 2000
Power Radionics Program for PC. Naturally,
we are offering a large selection of orgone
generators® and orgone radionics TM devices.
Call (770) 924 0223 now.
Now we are ready for a definition of
magic:
MAGIC IS ACTION UPON A TARGET,
WITH THE HELP OF STRUCTURAL
LINKS AND LIFE FORCE.
FURTHERMORE, WE ESTABLISHED
THAT THE DISTANCE BETWEEN THE
PRACTICING MAGICIAN AND THE
TARGET IS IRRELEVANT. 	WHAT IS
IMPORTANT IS THE STRENGTH OF
THE LIFE FORCE AND THE ACCURACY
OF THE STRUCTURAL LINKS.
The first thing that we need to do
in order to understand magic is to come
to grips with its basic elements. 	This
means that we need to learn to under-
stand the characteristics of life force and
the nature of structural links. 	Then we
need to learn the methods to raise life
force and the methods to establish struc-
tural links. 	With such an understanding
we can perform any kind of magic. With
such an understanding will we view magic
as a technological system rather than
some mysterious art that is cloaked in
some kind of distorted religious belief
structures.
After we have developed a basic
understanding of life force and of struc-
tural links, we will proceed to increase the
range of our sensory apparatus. This will
allow us to tune into the effects of our
magical action. It is always better to "see"
the target rather than do something
"blindly" in the hope that the technology
we employed will do the trick. Being able
to tune into our magical action gives us
the capability to view the impact of our
action while we are practicing.
10 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

LIFE FORCE
In the first lesson we found out that
life force is the essential ingredient in any
magical operation. Life force provides us
with the "medium," so to say, that allows
transfer by means of structural links.
Magicians of all ages knew that. 	They
taught practices to work with life force.
Often these practices became so interwo-
ven with religious practice that people
were incapable of realizing the essence
of the magical practice. They confounded
the expression of raw life force with the
specific religious practice that they use to
make it appear. 	Quite naturally they
thought it was the religious practice that
caused the "miracle" to happen. 	From
there it was just a small step to the wrong
assumption that only their specific reli-
gion could deliver such miracles. 	If
miracles happened in other religious sys-
tems, they logically interpreted them as
being the work of the force that opposed
their religion such as the devil in the Chris-
tian religion. The "miracles" appeared no
longer as results of an applied technol-
ogy, but as events that only happened
within their specific creed. Miracles, then,
found their explanation only in terms of
such a specific religious doctrine. 	From
this attitude it was only a small step to
the arrogant academic attitude that de-
nies the existence of life force all together.
To the magician who learned to
think in scientific terms life force has
gained a new importance. Scientific think-
ing helps us understand what's really go-
ing on when we apply a technology. 	It
provides us with the mapping that we can
use to explain technologies that evolved
from experience of trial and error. 	Map-
pings that we develop with the help of
scientific thinking will help us find new
technologies. 	Therefore it is long over-
due to bring about a scientific approach
to the manifestations of life force.
In this lesson you will learn to ex-
plore and use raw psychic energy, or life
force.
LIFE FORCE FOLLOWS
NEGATIVE ENTROPY
The research of Wilhelm Reich was
a giganitc step towards our scientific un-
derstanding of the characteristics of life
force. 	This is so because Wilhelm Reich
was the first scientist who recognized that
life force, or orgone (as he called it) fol-
lows the principle of negative entropy. To
understand this principle, let's first explain
what we mean with entropy. Entropy is a
term that appears in physics. 	Physicists
observed that two energy systems of dif-
ferent potentials end up with the same
potential some time after they came in
contact with each other. We call this pro-
cess of establishing balance entropy. For
instance, if you bring a hot object in con-
tact with a cold object, both objects will
have the same temperature after some
time. One object will be colder, while the
other object will be warmer. 	The energy
that the physicist refers to is electromag-
netic in nature, of course. 	The average
academic physicist of our days is still hos-
LESSON 	II
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	11

Wilhelm Reich has also made an-
other important observation: An electro-
scope discharges much faster in an at-
mosphere that has a high orgone poten-
tial. 	This characteristic allowed Reich to
measure the strength of fields of life en-
ergy. If we consider this characteristic of
life force and the fact that the inside of an
orgone box is warmer than its surround-
ings, we must realize that there is an "in-
terface" between the space time that
physics describes and life energy.
Wilhelm Reich was a medical doc-
tor. Therefore he used orgone energy for
healing purposes. This brought tradition-
alists on the plan with the usual conse-
quences.
Reich went on to use his discover-
ies to build devices that he called "cloud
busters." He used these devices to influ-
ence the weather: by forming clouds and
by destroying them.
Reich also discovered a variation of
orgone that was stagnant. He called this
energy deadly orgone, or DOR. 	He used
cloud busters to remove clouds of DOR
that are hostile to life.
tile to the concept of life energy.
Life force operates the opposite
way. 	If you bring an object with a high
potential of life force in contact with an
object that has a low potential, the object
with the higher potential will draw from
the object with the lower potential.
The 	second 	observation 	that
Wilhelm Reich made was the following:
Organic matter attracts and holds orgone
energy while metallic matter attracts and
immediately repels orgone. He designed
his orgone accumulators following these
two principles.
An orgone accumulator is a box
that has alternating layers of organic and
metallic materials. 	The outermost layer
is organic while the innermost layer is me-
tallic. 	As a consequence there will be a
flow of orgone energy from the outside
of the orgone box to the inside. 	The life
force inside the accumulator will become
stronger and stronger. 	A thermometer
on the inside of the orgone box shows
consistently a higher temperature. 	This
fact contradicts the law of entropy. 	Ac-
cording to the second law of thermody-
namics the inside of the box should have
the same temperature as the outside.
12 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

For nearly 40 years after Reich's
passing virtually nothing happened in the
science of orgone physics. Magicians such
as Israel Regardie realized that a knowl-
edge of orgone physics is useful for the
study of magic. He recommends the study
of Reich's works in the introduction to his
manual of the Golden Dawn system. 	He
had the right insights, but, being a tradi-
tionalist, he was incapable of accepting
the consequences and freeing himself
from the traditions he grew up in. 	Most
of the people that followed Reich remained
satisfied in conducting cloud busting ex-
periments and building orgone accumu-
lators. 	They overlooked that Reich's ge-
nius opened up a vast field of new tech-
nologies.
LIFE FORCE AND THE MIND
Although magicians used life force
throughout the millennia, they never be-
came aware of the principle of negative
entropy. 	This is quite amazing because
negative entropy is the characteristic of
life energy that makes magic work.
Welz Chi Generators®
The JU 99 CE = Junior 99 Chi EnergizerTM
Small Size, ca. 5 x 2 1/4 x 1 in.
The JU 99 is a bare-bones Welz
Chi 	Generator® 	(orgone
generator®) for individual use.
This extraordinary device contains all the
essential parts of the larger orgone generators®.
Its excellent qualities make it a powerful utensil
for all whose budget does not allow them yet to
acquire a larger, stronger, and more versatile
Welz Chi Generator® and who are very serious
about bringing the magic of success into their
lives and who are ready to work on decisive
changes towards prosperity, satisfying relationships,
self-confidence, peace of mind and happiness.
For the entry level, the JU 99 CE is excellent for
basic energy and relaxation work and to get
acquainted with life force technologies. It is easy
to use for any person and it can be the most
important utensil in every household.
You can more than triple its output and enhance
energy transfer with the new Power Booster with
Transfer Disk (PBT 2400). For energy transfer,
use the Transfer Couple TD 99. This way, you
can receive the energy without loss, whether you
are just a few blocks away from your home or
half around the globe!
In addition to that, any radionics device that you
put into the life force field of a JU 99 CE or any
other Welz Chi Generator® will naturally be more
effective. It becomes then a Power Radionics TM
device that is boosted with life force. You can use
it continuously, day and night, 7 - 24, when using
the AC - DC - adapter. No dependence on
expensive 9 Volt batteries! Battery option
available, if required.
Silver tubing for output: Silver is a favorite of all
professionals, when it comes to energizing the body.
7.83 Hz Frequency Setting: The “Schumann
Resonance”, or Earth Frequency, is a favorite setting
for universal purpose: According to brain wave
experts, this frequency has additional multiple
advantages: overcoming jet lag, counteracting mind
control, easier learning, precision, and more.
Whatever your intentions among its many
potential uses, a few that are most important for
you or all of them, the JU 99 it is designed to fit
every budget, while providing this extra strength to
make a decisive difference.
Specialty Devices of the same series:
These devices are the same design as the JU 99
CE, with other frequency settings
The TF 99 CE = Top Fitness 99 Chi EnergizerTM,
20 Hz, for fitness training, weight loss and body
sculpting
The JU 99.10 - a 10 Hz “Junior” - for general
purpose
The SPP 99 CE - Sports Power Performance Chi
Energizer TM - 25 Hz, for this extra energy
advantage in sports performance
The GPP 99 CE - Golf Power Performance Chi
EnergizerTM - for precision in any sports where it
is needed, such as golf, target shooting, etc.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	13

Perhaps a reason for this unaware-
ness is another important characteristic
of life energy: 	namely that its transfer
follows structural principles. 	From this
structural transfer and the principle of
negative entropy follow that we can di-
rect life energy with our minds.
At this point it becomes necessary
that we begin with some practice that in-
volves life energy. 	We do this practice
with technological tools and with our minds.
Practice #1: 	Hold both hands in front
of you, about one foot from your eyes.
Do so with a neutral background such as
a wall. 	Have the fingers of both hands
touch each other. 	Now very slowly pull
the hands apart and see the "strings" that
are still connecting the fingers that sepa-
rate from each other. 	It takes a bit of
training, but it's not difficult.
Practice #2: Hold one end of the wand
in one hand and touch the other end of
the wand with the index finger of your
other hand. 	Slowly pull the index finger
and wand apart from each other and ob-
serve the "luminating" bridge, or string.
If you have seen the string, you know why
I call it "luminating."
Practice #3: 	Same as before, but pull
apart rather rapidly, up to four inches.
Chances are that you see a short ema-
nation from both, the finger and the wand.
Now you give the mental command for
the two emanations to join into a
luminating string. This is your first expe-
rience to direct life energy with your mind.
LEARN HOW TO FEEL
LIFE ENERGY.
Practice #4: Take the wand and point it
to sensitive parts of your body.
1. 	Feel one end of the wand with the
THE MAGIC WAND AS AN
ORGONE ACCUMULATOR.
We will now build our first magical
tool. 	It is a simple orgone accumulator
(orac). 	Later this orac can double as a
magical wand.
We need:
1. 	A copper or brass tube, about one
foot long, 1/2" to 1 inch 3/4" diameter
2. Aluminum duct tape
3. Ordinary duct tape (plastic)
Take the tube and wrap it with one
layer of plastic duct tape. 	Follow with
one layer of aluminum tape, then plastic,
etc., until you have 7 layers. 	The outer-
most layer is plastic. If you want to make
it look nice, cover the whole wand with
leather or vinyl. For the experiments and
practices that follow, looks are irrelevant.
LEARN TO SEE LIFE EN-
ERGY
Although this is not absolutely nec-
essary for your beginning of magical prac-
tice, it is good if you learn to see life en-
ergy.
14 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

Study the following diagrams
carefully!
This is the diagram of a typical
magical operation that lacks the
supply of life force, usually
because the operator is unaware of
the importance of life force. Some
life force is drawn from the
surroundings or from the operator.
Results are possible. This type
operation has a high rate of failure!
The same magical operation as
above, when performed by a
knowledgeable magician who
supplies the operation with life
force, either his own using various
practices or by killing a chicken or
other animal. Good results!
Same magical operation, with a
continuous supply of massive
amounts of life force from a Welz
Chi Generator®! The continuous
supply of life force keeps the
projected trend energies going.
Results can come fast. Success can
be possible also in situations
where everything else seems to
fail! Reliable Results!
“Traditional” radionics device: the
radionics operator has no idea of
the importance of life force. The
transfer is possible because of the
relatively weak life force field
surrounding the device and the fact
that the device is set until results
show - or the operator gives up.
Highly Unreliable! For a skilled
magician it is easy to interfere with
this type operation.
Traditional radionics device that is
boosted 	by 	a 	Welz 	Chi
Generator®. The massive supply
of life force ensures fast action.
Highly Successful!
Diagram of the RAD 2400 HD
Orgone Radionics TM Device with
separate Trend- and Target
settings as well as a built-in
Heavy 	Duty 	Welz 	Chi
Generator®. More precision and
direction. Results can come fast.
Success can be possible also in
very difficult situations where
everything else seems to fail!
The Power RadionicsTM Programs go
beyond mere trend- and target
settings by including basic action,
alternative target (can be used for
grounding in case of repercussion)
and trend in the environment. It is
digitally connected with a Welz Chi
Generator® for powerful action! It
is extremely flexible and
successful!
palm of either of your hands. To feel the
life energy, hold the palm about one inch
from the end of the wand.
2. Point the wand to the wrist of the hand,
again one inch away.
3. Hold your fingers in front of the wand,
one by one.
4. Point the wand toward the area of the
forehead that is in the center between the
eyes, one inch away.
5. Try with any other area of your body.
The feeling that you get is your in-
dividual experience. 	Some persons feel
a tingling. Others feel a slight cool breeze.
Most persons feel a gentle warmth. What
you feel depends very much on what
group of nerve endings respond first. The
person who is kinetically oriented re-
sponds with a feeling of a tingling or
breeze while the visually oriented person
feels warmth. 	What happens in this ex-
periment is the following: 	Your life en-
ergy field is stronger than the energy field
of the wand. Therefore you draw life en-
ergy from the wand. 	When this life en-
ergy enters your body it stimulates the
tactile nerve endings in your skin. 	You
experience this stimulation of nerve end-
ings as a feeling of warmth, a tingling, or
a breeze. 	You have this feeling even
though there is no wind or high tempera-
ture between the wand and your body.
LEARN HOW TO DIRECT
LIFE ENERGY
You had your first experience with
directing life energy when you practiced
seeing it with the wand. 	For some the
following practices you will need a part-
ner. 	To be more effective you need also
learn a preliminary practice that employs
your capability to imagine. Anything that
you image is structure and life energy fol-
lows structural principles easier than
space-time distances. This characteristic
of life force opens up truly fantastic po-
tentials for the person who learns to use
it. The whole science of magic is a result
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	15

of this characteristic of life energy! 	Our
mind creates structures in continuous se-
quence! 	This is the reason for the fact
that magic is as old as mankind. Earliest
man already realized that events some-
times followed visualization.
LEARN HOW TO DIRECT
LIFE ENERGY INTO YOUR
BODY
Practice #5: While you inhale, imagine
life energy enter your body through your
left hand. While exhaling, imagine it con-
densing and building up in an area of your
body such as your abdomen. Keep doing
so for a while until you feel life energy in
that part of the body.
Practice #6: While inhaling, imagine life
energy enter your body through your left
hand. While you exhale, imagine that the
life energy leaves through your right hand.
Practice #7: 	You may practice many
variations of the two practices above.
LEARN HOW TO CHARGE
OBJECTS WITH LIFE EN-
ERGY
Practice #8: 	Put any object in front of
you. This may be a small piece of paper,
a candle, a matchbook, a glass of water,
or a crystal. 	Hold your right hand about
one inch above the object. 	While inhal-
ing, imagine life energy enter your body
through your left hand. 	While you ex-
hale, imagine that the life energy leaves
through your right hand and builds up in
the object. Proceed charging the object.
Then stop charging and feel the life en-
ergy of the object with the palm or wrist
of your hand. 	You may let your partner
feel the life energy in the object. 	Your
partner does the same and you feel the
energy.
Practice #9: 	Put an object in front of
you as in practice #1. Instead of project-
ing life energy into the object use it to
build a sphere of life energy around the
object. Have your partner move the hand
slowly toward the sphere and feel where
the sphere begins. 	Let your partner do
About copy cats and parasites
Of recent, several small outfits offer “orgone
generators”, “chi generators”, “orgonite”, etc.,
mostly over the Internet. 	Besides of the use of
these 	words 	being 	blatant 	violations 	of
trademark laws, much of the equipment that is
offered has little to do with the generation of
orgone energy, and the “orgonite formulas” are
poor, since I was very careful in not revealing
my formula, so there was nothing to steal
besides the most rudimentary and obvious
ingeredients. 	Naturally, the JU 99 CE, which is
in the price range of the cheapest copy cat
devices, has silver tubing, Voltage Regulator and
other features that put it light years ahead of
those poor imitations. 	We strongly believe in
offering high quality equipent at very low prices,
something that tinkerers are unable to do.
16 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

the same and you feel the energy.
LEARN HOW TO PROJECT
LIFE ENERGY TO PERSONS
Practice #10: 	Point your fingers of the
right hand toward the area between the
eyes of your partner. 	Draw life energy
while inhaling and project it into this area
between the eyes. Project on other parts
of the body. Let your partner do the same
on you.
Practice #11: Stretch your arm out and
point your fingers as in preceding prac-
tice. 	Do NOT point toward your partner.
Point anywhere else. 	Again you do the
drawing and projecting in the rhythm of
your breath. This time however you imag-
ine the flow of life energy entering the
forehead or any other body part of your
partner. Then your partner does the same
on you.
Practice #12: Both arms are in a com-
fortable position. No pointing or drawing
position, simply comfortable seating.
Using drawing and projecting techniques,
again project onto the forehead of your
partner. Then change positions.
Practice #13: Take the wand and point
it toward the area between the eyes of
your partner. 	Do not any drawing and
projecting through your own body. Then
project on other body parts.
Practice #14: Proceed as in practice #2.
Point the wand anywhere but focus on the
body areas of your partner. Imagine the
flow from the end of your wand into the
body of your partner.
All of the above practices are ex-
cellent to learn the mental mastery of life
energy. What you do in every case is draw
life energy from the universe and direct it
toward a person or an object. 	It is good
to divert (in your imagination) a bit of life
energy into your own body while you are
drawing and projecting. 	This way you
get stronger in the process.
HOW TO GENERATE
LIFE ENERGY
Magicians build up energy to
project it. 	They did so with sacrifice,
chanting, emotional build up in congre-
gations or magical groups, walking in
circles, sex magical practices, etc. In most
instances they used energy that was avail-
able and accumulated it up for release in
a magical operation.
Walking or dancing in circles and
sex magical practices are other methods
to generate life energy.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
Franz Anton Mesmer developed a
system of healing that involves the gen-
erating of life energy. It is the system of
"magnetizing." 	He used the term "mag-
netizing" because he has chosen the term
"animal magnetism" for life energy. 	The
practice of magnetizing is relatively
simple. One person lies down, with light
or (ideally) no clothing. 	The other per-
son passes one or both hands over the
body of the person who is magnetized at
a distance of one to two inches. Lead the
magnetic strokes from the extremities to
the center of the body, i.e., the area of
the navel: from head to center, from toes
to center, from hands to center. 	When
returning to the back you do so in a wide
arch, sometimes shaking out the hands.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	17

If you do not visualize the energy
being sent to any part of the body, then
the body will send the energy where it is
most needed. 	Magicians use the same
method to generate life energy. 	They
project it then onto a talisman or into a
magical operation.
Practice #15: Practice the magnetizing
and feel the energy in the body.
Practice #16: Magnetize and direct the
energy to a specific part of the body.
Practice #17: Magnetize and direct the
energy from the center of the body to an
object.
Practice #18: 	Magnetize, but use your
wand instead of your hands. If you have
two wands available, use both wands.
From Mesmers research and other
observations follows another important
characteristic of life energy: You can gen-
erate life energy by moving fields of life
energy relative to each other. 	This hap-
pens clearly in the practice of magnetiz-
ing, but also in group practices such as
walking or dancing in circles.
THE ORGONE GENERATOR.
On the basis of the previous ob-
servation and characteristic of life energy,
I invented the life energy generator, or
Welz generator. 	The Welz generator has
the advantage that it can run continuously.
In addition, a set of Welz generators can
develop energies so powerful that no
group of magicians can match!
THE BASIC LAWS OF LIFE ENERGY:
1. 	Distance is a result of structural
differences.
2. We know of similar structures and
equivalent structures.
3. Life energy follows negative entropy.
4. Life energy interacts with magne-
tism.
5. When you shift fields of life energy
relative to each other you generate
life energy. (Or: you generate a vor-
tex that draws additional life energy
from somewhere, perhaps the chaos
energy)
You Can Get what You Want
and by now you can have
this extra magickal power
which spells success
Before you begin to use the Orgone Generator®
to help you achieve decisive positive permanent
solutions, you can now examine thoroughly your
innermost desires and ask yourself a few key
questions:
1. Do other people envy you? Or do
you envy others?
2. Do other people want to be like you?
Or do you wish you were living other
peoples’ lives?
3. Are others in awe of you? Do they
puzzle at your meteoric rise to the top as
much as they wonder about your success,
accomplishments and amazingly good
fortune? Or is it perhaps the other way
around?
Here is a list of some of the good things
that you probably want:
The things you want to own
The money you want to acquire
The things you like to achieve
The exotic places you want to see
The abilities you like to have
Good fortune at all times
The love you like to receive
Abundance on all levels
Achieve and maintain balance, harmony
and peace
And much, much more…
Now, in this course you are learning that it is
your Power that carries your decision, obeys
your command. This Power is a manifestation
of the life force that you have available.
Wise people in the Far East called this life force,
or power, Chi and they developed many
techniques of self-improvement from this
knowledge such as Tai Chi and Chi Gong. Modern
Western terms for life force are orgone, animal
magnetism, Od, Solar ether, and others.
To understand the advantage that this Power,
i.e., life force, can give you, imagine the
following: Bring a native in from a remote jungle
to a city. The electricity will not work for him
until he realizes that this button turns on that
light and that switch turns on this radio.
Naturally, for him the effects of electricity are
“magic”. His friends who never learned how to
flip a switch have no access to this magic
whatsoever.
18 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

As you know by now, Your Power is dependent
on your available Life Force. Using orgone
generators®, you can now have much more
life force available than ever before and, as a
result of the knowledge and skills that you are
acquiring in this course, you can harness this
power much easier to achieve the success that
you want. Consequently, by now you are able
to control it where and when you want to do
so. Obviously, to have more life force available
means that you have more Power and
consequently you have more control of your
reality than others around you.
Now… imagine that you can project a large
amount of continuous life force to any one or
more of the areas in your life or goals that you
like to improve and strengthen. Naturally,
with added life force you significantly reduce
the time and the effort it would normally take
and, of course, you can have much more
control over these areas. This is the Power
to control and to manifest your reality
with overwhelming success!
Until now, the knowledge of how to generate
life force and how to consciously harness it for
success was kept from the common people.
Every shepherd’s intent was to have as large
a flock of sheep as possible.
Life Force Technology
what it can do for you
By now you know that, with the use of the life
force technology (orgone technology),
you can open the door to a new, very successful
and happy life. Naturally, within a relatively
short time, within just a couple of weeks or
less, you can be capable of achieving the
success of which you perhaps never have dared
to dream yet. In addition to that, you can
experience positive effects such as physical
stamina, energy management, and relaxation,
right from the beginning. Life can be truly
successful and enjoying as long as you seize
the opportunities it offers. 	Now certainly is
the time to start something that can be the
greatest adventure in your successful life with
the technology of orgone boosted magic
and radionics.
The Welz Chi Generator® comes by itself (the
JU 99 CE, the Performer 2400, and the
LPOG series) or as a combination unit with a
radionics device (the RAD series and the
ATGS 3000). By itself, you can use it as a
mind machine and as a power source for
operations at a distance that include special
attachments 	such 	as 	filters, 	Radionics
Programs, or your individual set-ups. Self
improvement, shamanic work, ceremonial
magic, talismanic magic and rune magic are
examples of such setups.
Among 	other 	things, 	the 	Welz 	Chi
Generators® are uniquely designed for:
Enhancement — Greatly improve and
enhance your life.
Trend Management — Powerful help for
positive permanent change.
Instant Control — Take instant control of
your life — in areas of desired change and
improvement.
Peak 	Performance 	— 	Attain 	peak
performance in work, studies, and, of course,
in sports. Build confidence and reach top level
performance in many areas of your life. 	In
Sports, you can use the mind machine option
for Top Performance Enhancement that is legal
and Defies Detection.
Balance and Relaxation — Experience
stress relief and increase relaxation.
Yes !!!… With the new Welz Chi Generator® or
Power Radionics TM Device, you can have now a
tool that gives you the cutting edge on your
path to a happy, meaningful, and fulfilled life
in abundance and to gain a significant
advantage in your personal matters, business
dealings, prosperity, sport achievements,
relationships, and sex!.
Therefore the Welz Chi Generator® is certainly
the most important technological advance in
mind machine and life force technology in the
past 40 years and definitely the greatest yet
for self-help, mind-control, and, of course, for
powerful magic as you find in this course to
naturally improve your life and the life of
others! You can use this equipment to help
yourself achieve permanent desirable solutions
in your most important situations.
It’s Easy and Practical !!!
With the Welz Chi Generator® or the Power
Radionics TM Device, the practical harnessing of
life force for your overall success is extremely
easy! It is the same process that happens when
gifted humans use their innate psychic powers
or when they generate and harness life force
by other means. There is a difference, of course:
With the new Welz Chi Generator®, even
an untrained person can get the same
results now that otherwise only highly
With our equipment, i.e., the Welz Chi
Generators®, we have conducted double
blind experiments. We have demonstrated
that 	equivalent 	structural 	links
(abstractions such as arbitrarily set rates
in 	a 	radionics 	device, 	or 	archetypal
symbols) allow transfer of life force as
effectively as near-identical links do. 	On
the other hand, traditional practitioners
could have told us the same thing all along
thousands of years ago! All their work and
experience 	have 	been 	based 	on 	the
principle of life force transfer at any
distance. 	They 	had 	the 	experience;
therefore, they needed no experimental
proof.
It’s fun, it’s exciting, and you certainly can be laid
back and relax while you await assured success!!!
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	19

trained psychics, priests, shamans, or
magicians can get. In fact, with the new Welz
Chi Generator® , you have now a decisive
advantage over any person, who does not own
and operate this technology. 	This is so,
1. because the Welz Chi Generator® generates
life force continuously and
2. because the Welz Chi Generator® has a much
stronger output of life force than most magicians
and shamans can ever produce, even when
working in groups.
In fact, the technology from HSCTI requires not
more training than what it takes to drive a car.
In fact, it takes much less training! 	When you
decide to use the Welz Chi Generator to help
you achieve a better life, you need no involved
training, no creative visualization, no pep talks
to yourself, no hypnosis, no self-programming
techniques, and no motivational seminars. All it
takes to succeed is the capability to flip a switch
and the willingness and open mind to utilize new
technology when improving your life in every
aspect.
In fact, acquiring the Welz Chi Generator/s® is
definitely the best investment by far that anyone
can make in a lifetime as Welz Chi Generators®
already 	produce 	spectacular 	results, 	as
experienced by many users of these amazing
devices worldwide!
The Universal Manual that you will receive with
your Equipment has easy-to-follow, step by step
instructions that will lead you from very simple
applications to increasingly complex uses of this
extraordinary equipment. 	Above all, ...
It’s fun, it’s exciting, and you certainly can
be laid back and relax while you await
assured success!!!
With simple attachments to the Welz Chi
Generator® such as the various filter packs (the
Alphabet of Desire, Sex Pack and others) you
can now harness life force much easier for
any purpose you desire. The Welz Chi
Generator will then project this life force boosted
trend to any target of your choosing and it will
do so continuously. That’s why the Welz Chi
Generator® is the ideal tool for you to increase
your personal power, prosperity, performance,
and success !!!
The Welz Chi Generator® when used properly,
can be your powerful weapon that you can aim
at any person of your choosing, without them
having the slightest idea of why they act in some
specific way – which will be the way You Want
It To Happen !!! Therefore, the Welz Chi
Generator® can be your decisive tool to help
you make all your dreams come true.
It is a power generator, a mind machine and a
creator of favorable trends in one! Most
importantly, it works at any distance!!!
Among the many uses of this exciting
technology:
Self Improvement:
Energy and vitality - energize yourself
Relaxation and stress reduction
Build confidence
Help develop skills
Added energy for workouts
Help weight control
Enhance supplements
Your interactions with others:
Influence others, with or without their
knowledge
Energize others
Influence the outcome of challenging
situations
Charge talismans
Energize your action at a distance (or
magick)
Your environment:
Energize drinking water, juices and food
Energize plants - house plants or garden
Energize cosmetics and supplements
Provide your pets with energy and vitality
Above all - bring this extra magick into
your life!
Choose the Equipment that’s
Right for You !
After you look at all the options, you can you
consider a few key questions before purchasing
your equipment.
Where budget is an issue, to strike a balance
between price and desired sophistication of your
equipment is the thing to do.
The more basic units and combinations of units
provide you with excellent value. They don’t
always provide the sophistication and special
applications 	some 	persons 	need. 	These
modestly priced units can provide you with great
solutions for years. All of them you can integrate
into increasingly sophisticated workstations.
Middle of the line units provide a wider variety,
more power, and upgraded features. For mainly
personal use, we recommend a middle of the
line unit such as the RAD 2000 Power Radionics TM
Device or the LPOG 2400 DL. Basic and middle
of the line units and kits are a great choice for
persons who use this extraordinary equipment
in the main for self-improvement and for
management of their desires.
For added impact upon others or to exercise some
form of mind management (or mind control)
upon 	them, 	and 	for 	work 	with 	superior
effectiveness, you should choose a unit that’s
top of the line. In fact, the top of the line units
(such as the RAD 2400HD, RAD5 and ATGS 3000)
boast effectiveness, excellent variety, greatly
increased power, and depth of experience.
For top performance in sports, fitness and
bodybuilding, the Performer 2400 is designed to
provide this extra boost of energy needed to
reach the top.
20 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

STRUCTURAL LINKS!
A radionics expert once stated that
radionics is part of ceremonial magic. He
considers the tuner a solidified thought
form and the rates representing agree-
ments with the subtle nature spirits.
I can agree with such an animistic
approach. 	In the old times, people
thought of lightning being a "god." In fact,
they considered practically all natural phe-
nomena, even the planetary energies, as
being anthropomorphic gods, i.e., gods
that look somewhat like humans. Still in
our days most people have a concept of a
bearded gaseous mammal of the male sex
who "made it all" with "his" hands.
At some point in human history
natural scientists began to develop mod-
els that were less anthropomorphic on
the one hand and more useful on the
other. 	From such expansion of scientific
concepts they developed new technolo-
gies.
Some people may be quite correct
if they say that cars are gods that trans-
port us provided that we appease them
with some liquid called gasoline and that
we know how to touch them correctly.
It is O.K. if we satisfy ourselves with
an animistic approach. With this approach
we will be able to use some techniques of
magic and radionics if we follow some
(usually religious) "tradition" that tells us
how to do what.
We have another, more useful, op-
tion. 	We can begin to analyze magical
and radionic procedures in scientific terms.
That's exactly what we have begun to
do in the previous lessons. 	Then we will
find that a structural approach has more
potential than the old animistic model
could ever offer. Such approach will prove
LESSON 	III
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	21

to be more useful in many respects.
Above all will it lead us to an understand-
ing of magic and radionics that can easily
rid us from the strait jacket of stale tra-
ditions. 	At the same time it will allow
vibrant creativity expand our magical
powers to levels that traditionalists are
incapable of conceiving.
Practice #19:
A cattle prodder.
First let's phantasize ourselves into
an imaginary journey: 	Imagine yourself
traveling to a tribal society somewhere in
New Guinea. It needs to be a tribal soci-
ety that has never heard about civiliza-
tion as we know it. 	Among your equip-
ment you have a cattle prodder that
causes electric shocks. 	Since you know
some of the religious beliefs of that soci-
ety you make some image at the right
time (the sacred time of the year) and in
a traditional shape. Then you connect this
image with your cattle prodder. Chances
are that with such a contraption you can
convince these people of your divine na-
ture or of your spiritual connection with
their sky of gods. It all works because of
several reasons: 	First of all, those good
folks have no idea of electricity, but they
certainly can feel the shocks. 	They may
think that the shock they get is the power
of their gods. 	Another important facet
of your experience is that you adjusted
to the existing belief structure. If you did
not do it, they would. That could be quite
risky since electric shocks are somewhat
painful and the connection with a demonic
force is easily imagined.
As far as the feeling of life energy
is concerned, most of America compares
to the jungles of New Guinea. Few people
know that life force exists. Still less know
that they can feel life force. The majority
of people deny the very existence of life
energy. 	When selling my Orgone gen-
erators I let people feel the energy. This
made me realize that about 90% of the
people feel life force whether they believe
in it or not. 	All of this is a fertile ground
for our cattle prodder experiment. All you
need to do is adjust somewhat to the ex-
isting mainstream religion.
I did the experiment in the follow-
ing way. In a Christian book store I bought
a cross that measured about 6 inches in
length (made in Communist China, of
course). I drilled a 1/4 inch hole from the
top to the center. 	Then I took a small
jewelry type crystal and broke it in two.
One half of it I inserted into the hole. 	I
stuffed some paper on top of it to hold it
in place. 	Then I plugged the hole with
wood filler. The other half of the crystal I
put inside an operating Welz generator.
Now the cattle prodder was in operation.
What I did next is having my Christian
acquaintances feel it. I made a few com-
mentaries about the power of their God
coming from the cross. Most people feel
the life energy when they hold the palm
of their hands about one inch above the
center of the cross. 	When they feel this
energy under the appropriate circum-
stances, they are quite logically induced
to think that it truly is the power of their
God that emanates from the cross. When
22 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

they feel a slight breeze rather than
warmth I like to continue with the fun by
making a reference to the passage in the
old testament that mentions how King
David felt the presence of God as a gentle
breeze. A cattle prodder like this will sure
provide you with a lot of fun. 	Perhaps
you may even become inclined to orga-
nize a church.
Why does this cattle prodder work?
The answer lies in the crystal. 	The two
parts of the crystal form an excellent
structural link. 	The obvious linkage are
the breaking surfaces that are very simi-
lar. 	A second linkage may be the subtle
structure of the crystal itself: 	intricacies
of the crystal grid that are the same
throughout the original crystal. It is iden-
tical in the two parts. From the previous
lesson you know that the person who
holds the palm of the hand above the cen-
ter of the cross will
draw life energy from the Welz generator
where the second half of the crystal serves
as a structural link. 	The near identical
structures of the two crystal parts make
the transfer from Welz generator to cross
possible. Instead of the crystal you may
work with a scribble or any other graphic
design that you copy twice. 	Put one of
the copies inside the cross and the other
copy into the Welz generator. Then have
fun with your friendly neighborhood fun-
damentalists! 	If this is not your idea of
having fun, please skip this practice! 	A
word to the Christian who might be of-
fended about this: I suggest you tell your
preachers not to make consistently fun
and brand as evil everything that I am
doing. At least I do not call their mumbo
jumbo evil. 	Just silly, infantile, and ut-
terly primitive. 	If you succeed to stop
their impudences, we have a deal!
EQUIVALENT AND NEAR-
IDENTICAL STRUCTURES
In the first lesson you have become
familiar with the idea of structural links.
You learned it in this course:
The fact that Magic and
Radionics are perfectly
interchangeable!
A radionics device establishes non-fleeting and
stable structural links. 	In this respect, the
radionics device has a decisive advantage over
the human brain, which has the characteristic
of “moving around”. 	Magical objects and
magical sigils are structural links of the same
stability.
Therefore, a radionics device can also be called
a “universal magical sigil”. It is a technological
device that establishes structural links and holds
these structures longer than our brain can do.
The advantage of the radionics device over the
magical or any other symbol is its infinite
flexibility! The seasoned magician always
prefers a combination of the two: the
magical sigil to make use of energies that
people have used successfully over and over
again and the radionics device for the purpose
of fine-tuning these energies and adjusting them
to the specific purpose of the operation. This
way they can tie into well-established energy
patterns (the magical symbol), which they
modify for a specific purpose with the radionics
device. The Power Radionics TM Program
combines the two in a most effective way!
The most important factor required for the
success of a radionics operation is not the
specific make-up of the device that you use to
establish equivalent structural links; it is the
amount of life force used for the operation
and the sophistication and adaptability of the
envisioned trend energies, ideally as an
“independently acting” thought form. This
is the reason why the RAD 2400 HD is ideal for
your magical work.
It is obvious by now that the radionics device is
the ideal tool to establish equivalent structural
links that connect to any desired target, trend,
or to both.
The advantage of the radionics device over the
methods of traditional magic, such as sigils,
oils, dolls, etc., is the obvious fact of its
incredible flexibility. Sigils, oils, etc., are
designed for one thing and one thing only. The
radionics device naturally can be set up for any
purpose. IT IS UNIVERSAL !!!
Magic is action that uses life force and
structural links. Seen under this aspect,
radionics is magic that uses technological
devices (including computer programs) as
universal structural links, which you can
tune to any desired trend and/or target.
Our Equipment, computer
programs and other accessories
have their scientific basis in this
principle.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	23

Structural links connected with the tar-
get and structures represented the magi-
cal action. We have realized that life en-
ergy connects through equivalent or iden-
tical structures and that it allows transfer
through the same type structure.
In the following we work with the
two concepts of identical and equivalent
structure, then we practice a few simple
experiments. To get a practical "feel" for
what we are telling you is more valuable
than a thousand words!
It is easy for you to understand the
concept of an identical structure. We have
identical structures in case #1 where a
hair (ideally with follicle) connects with
the person, because the genetic code in
the cells of the hair is almost identical to
the genetic code in all other cells of the
organism from which the hair comes.
Therefore life energy transfers from the
hair to all other cells of the organism.
Likewise we have an identical structure in
the case of practice #19. 	If we limited
ourselves just to the concept of identical
or near identical structures, we would al-
ready have a wealth of technologies at
our disposal. 	However, experience
teaches us that this idea of structure takes
on a much wider meaning. 	This is quite
obvious in the case of the charismatic
church. 	The visualization of a person
shows hardly any structural identity with
the person itself. It's an appearance that
our brain cells give us. 	This appearance
results from memories. In some way we
can say that our memory allows a struc-
tural linkage that involves the dimensions
of time. 	A similar thing happens in case
#4, where the names are written down.
It will be good now to go through
the practices in lesson 2 to explain the
workings of life energy and how the ma-
gician can use it. From an understanding
of these practices we will then be able to
work out new magical technologies.
Practices #1 and #2: The structural trans-
fer may be ignored. 	Life energy seems
to have a capability to stay connected
for a while.
Practice #3: 	Life energy flow follows
mental commands. 	Later we will learn
that life energy may take on a shape that
you "tell it" to take. 	In a strong field of
life energy you can photograph this shape
with any camera such as a Polaroid cam-
era. 	You may expand the exercise by
commanding the energy bridge to form
an arch rather than a straight line.
The fact that you can mentally di-
rect life energy is obvious in cases #4 and
#6 of lesson #1. 	This capability is pos-
sible because life energy transfers through
equivalent structural links. The near iden-
tical structure is typically of the same
material. 	The equivalent structure is of
other material. 	Clothing that is used in
some magical operations to influence
people represents a near identical struc-
ture, because it contains skin rubbings of
the person. A photo on the other hand is
an equivalent structure. 	There are ways
of making very effective equivalent struc-
tures that are not as obvious as photos.
Radionic rates are a good example. 	So
are specific sigils that you can create to
connect with a person or with a specific
action.
Practices #5 through 14 are all
transfers by way of equivalent structures.
Magicians use sometimes the word
"symbolic representation" when talking
about equivalent structure. With this they
mean something that represents persons,
groups, events, or specific magical ener-
gies or entities.
An old assumption of magicians is
the following: If you have the true name
of something (such as a spirit), then you
have control over it. 	As a consequence
of this hypothesis many magicians have
developed mantras of power, i.e., pho-
netic expressions, that connect with spe-
cific entities of with specific action. Expe-
24 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

rience has taught magicians how they
should call specific energies (entities) to
action. 	A mantra, or "true name," of
course, is an equivalent structure.
Equivalent structures may vary de-
pending on the circumstances, the cul-
tural background, the magical system and
the specific symbolism or design system
used. The most frequent bases of equiva-
lent structures are graphical outlines
(sigils), sounds (mantras and, of recent,
sound pitches), dance forms, special mix-
tures of incenses, dolls, astrological chart
representations, radionics devices, and
symbolisms such as Runes and the Tarot.
In this previous description of equivalent
structures we have recognized another
important factor: 	The matrix of the
equivalent structure. 	This matrix is any
structure (such as a set of symbols as in
the Tarot) that the magician may arrange
to establish a structural link. 	Many of
these matrices are "artificial" ones. That
means that humans established them ac-
cording to their belief systems. Although
such matrices are excellent, they are not
an absolute need for magic at large.
The zodiac is a good example for a
natural matrix. 	Its settings (planetary
positions) at a specific time determine the
characteristics of a human being that is
born under these settings. 	In a more
generalized effect, astrological positions
establish a field of connections with ener-
gies of a higher order. 	This energy field
establishes the trends that influence the
action of everything in its realm. We will
come back to this later and we will show
how we can generate our own astrologi-
cal trends with relative ease, especially
when we use a Welz generator for this
purpose.
The connection of equivalent struc-
tures with the target or with an energy of
a higher order (spirit, entity, etc.) results
sometimes in part from the functioning
of our brains. This is especially true when
we use letters of the alphabet or num-
bers as elements of such an equivalent
structure. 	Our mind recognizes some
object as a general matrix for an equiva-
lent structure (a "universe") and then es-
tablishes the specific setting of the ma-
trix that ensures contact with the target.
From a technological point of view,
we have available a wide spectrum of
equivalent structures that range from pure
visualization or imagining (mental images)
over the making of sigils, the use of natu-
ral structural links such as incenses, oils
and herbs, all the way to the near identi-
cal structural links.
The radionic device is an excellent
example of a system of equivalent struc-
tures that are totally arbitrary. 	But then
again some of the symbolisms, alphabets,
sound systems, etc., are arbitrary bases
as well.
It seems that if, with our minds,
we decide that something represents the
universe - or that we declare something
as symbolizing the universe (or the total-
ity of our environment), then we can de-
vise partial systems of it that represent
the elements of this universe.
For instance if we decide that the
radionic box represents the human body,
then we can determine a system of set-
tings (the radionics term for setting is rate)
that represent the various parts and sub
systems of the body.
Equivalent structures are the result
of conventions. 	The capability of our
minds to generate psychic linkage may
be at the root of the functioning of equiva-
lent structures. 	On the other hand we
can get a good linkage with a near identi-
cal structure (such as a hair) and then
develop a system of equivalent structures
(rates) for the body from which the hair
is coming and its specific systems. If we
do not have the linkage of the hair, then
the setting for the liver may also bring in
zodiacal energies that correlate to the
liver (Jupiter energies in this case).
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	25

DISTANCE IS THE RESULT OF
STRUCTURAL DIFFERENCES
When we say that distance is a re-
sult of structural differences we need to
include both, similar and equivalent struc-
tures. The more similar the structure, the
closer are the objects as far as the trans-
fer of life energy is concerned.
The living being establishes dis-
tance by means of its shifting structural
linkages. Therefore the living being prac-
tices magic at all times.
From the structural concepts that
we have established above follows that
closeness is not only within the three di-
mensional space that we see and in which
we move. Quite often we are too involved
with this habitual concept of space while
completely ignoring the "magical close-
ness" that life energy opens up for us.
We may only become painfully aware of
the powerful consequences of such "close-
ness from outside our three dimensional
space" at times when we are the victim
of a spell that someone has cast from
thousands of miles away. 	Even then we
are more inclined to think in terms of the
"miraculous" rather than accepting the ob-
vious. This compares to the zoologist who
admires the "capability of a butterfly to
smell a female that is several miles away
and to find his way there." To smell means
to pick up traces of chemicals. Directional
smelling is even more difficult, especially
when there is nothing to smell! 	A high
school kid can calculate the amount of
molecules of the female's scent in the air
some five miles away to prove that the
academic zoologist's statement is abso-
lute nonsense! Why not accept that there
is something different from "smell" and
"normal sensory perception" out there?
Structural linkage that bridges visual
space is a very valid concept that explains
a lot of things easily.
EXPERIMENTS WITH
STRUCTURAL LINKS
Enough polemics. The best way to
gain an understanding of structural links
is practical experience through experi-
mentation. This experimentation will also
help us expand our concepts of structural
links. A thorough examination of ancient
principles of magic will help us gain an
expansion of our concepts of space. The
visual space is the space that provides us
with our immediate needs and interaction:
food, clothing, relations, etc. The life en-
ergy space provides us with an easing of
our immediate needs and an expansion
of our communicative abilities by means
of magical action that employs life energy.
It is magical action upon an environment
of which we created a new and more use-
ful map. 	Now let's go on to experiment
with structural links. For our experiments
we need the following:
1. Two identical structures. We may make
a simple drawing or scribble. 	Make two
photocopies of the drawing and discard
the original.
2. Make a drawing that is somewhat simi-
lar to the drawing you have copied twice.
3. A radionics device (not absolutely nec-
essary).
4. 	The orgone wand. 	(from lesson 2)
5. A photo of the floor of the room where
you experiment.
6. 	A floor plan of the room where you
experiment.
26 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

7. 	Any diagram or symbol that's unique
such as the one below.
Practice #20: 	Transfer with wand.
Make two photocopies of the design be-
low.
Then individualize them. 	You do this by
adding whatever design you want equally
on both copies. 	Take one of the two dia-
grams. Project energy into this drawing,
first with your hand, then with the magi-
cal wand. Have your partner feel the en-
ergy flowing from the other diagram by
holding the palm of the hand about one
inch above it.
Practice #21: 	Transfer with Welz Gen-
erator
Call (770) 924 0223 for a free test if you
do not have one! Put one of the two dia-
grams in front of the Welz Generator.
Practice #22:
Make a "wrong" receiving symbol, but vi-
sualize "correct" receiving symbol instead.
This is an exercise that demonstrates the
flexibility of our mind. What happened is
a lock-in by means of a "bypass."
Practice #23:
Take the symbol that's not quite identical
and compare with the identical one. Have
two persons feel the output of both re-
ceiver symbols at the same time.
RADIONICS EXPERIMENTS
The experiments that follow involve
a radionics device. A radionics device es-
tablishes structural links.
Practice #24: 	Make a photo of floor of
the room. 	Make a target cross onto the
photo. 	Put the photo into the radionics
device, set the dials of the radionics de-
vice and point your wand at the device.
Have your partner feel the location on the
floor to which the cross on the photo cor-
responds. Be sure not to boost the radi-
onics device with orgone.
Practice #25: Same experiment above,
but you use the stickpad to establish a
sound that corresponds to the area on the
floor. 	Play the sound while projecting
energy. 	You may use a sound generator
such as CoolEdit.
Practice #26: 	Develop a mantra, or
word of power, with the stick pad.
Practice #27: 	Put one of your struc-
tural link designs in front of Welz genera-
tor and set radionics device at a rate that
represents the design. 	Then design the
wiring diagram of the radionics device and
inscribe the settings of the dials. 	In this
practice the law of equivalent structures
is carried one step further. 	This law ex-
plains why the wiring diagam of a radion-
ics type device works as well as the de-
vice itself!
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	27

Practice #28: 	Put second type struc-
tural link on output of radionics box of
experiment #27, carry identical design
with you.
LAWS OF STRUCTURAL
LINKS
1 The Basic Principle of Magical Transfer
and their Technological Use: 	Distance is
a result of structural differences. 	This
means, in other words: 	The flow of life
energies follows similar structures. 	In
practical application: 	If you have two
identical designs, chi (life energy) can flow
between the two designs.
2. If you take an object that was part of
a person such as hair, you can establish a
bridge of energy with that person. This is
so because the genetic code that you find
in a hair cell is identical to the genetic
code of all other cells of the body of that
person. The use of hair, fingernails, blood,
or similar things resulted from experience.
3. We can direct life energy with our mind.
This is so because our mind can generate
structures. 	If we visualize a person to
whom we send life energy, we generate
in our mind a structure that's similar to
that person. This structure connects with
the target person and a flow of energy to
that person becomes possible.
4. 	Equivalent Structures: 	Equivalent
structures are not near identical. 	They
result from determining a well-specified
frame of reference as a "universe" for a
specific set of effects, energies, or indi-
viduals. Individual settings of this frame
of reference determine to what event,
effect, energy, or individual, the now
modified frame of reference connects.
5. Equivalent Structures in Nature: Na-
ture gives us a wide variety of examples
of what we call equivalent structures. In
each of these cases you can use one sys-
tem to determine characteristics of the
other. The way to determine these char-
acteristics is the result of research into
the specifics of the equivalent structure,
statistical comparison, and development
of models that make translation possible.
Good examples are iridology (for diagno-
sis and to tell about characteristics of the
person, even to foretell future trends),
foot- and hand reflexology, ear acupunc-
ture, and astrology. In the latter the zo-
diac and heavenly bodies take the aspect
of a large radionics device. 	The astro-
logical zodiac is a naturally occurring frame
of reference. It compares to a huge radi-
onics box that connects with everything
on this planet. We can not set the "dials"
of our planetary system, but we have
other ways of using this radionics device
of cosmic proportions. We can calculate
in advance the positions of the elements
of this radionics box, the planets. 	Then
we can determine the kinds of zodiacal
energies that connect with any given in-
dividual at any given time. 	After we de-
termined the nature of the zodiacal ener-
gies we can interpret them as trends that
are valid for the individual.
6. Artificial Equivalent Structures: There
are several symbolisms and devices that
humans have developed to be equivalent
structures. 	Whenever our mind deter-
mines something to reflect a "universe,"
i.e., a system that we perceive as closed
such as a human being, we can use it as
a symbolism that we can use to repre-
sent equivalent structures. In such cases
the map becomes a structural link to the
territory it has the potential to describe.
The tree of life is one such device. Other
frames of reference are symbolisms of any
kind, notably alphabets, Enochian tablets,
and mythologies. 	The radionic device is
a more recent development
of a frame of reference that allows the
establishing of equivalent structures. 	It
is well known that the wiring diagram of a
radionics type device establishes a struc-
tural link in the same way the radionics
device itself does. If you regard this phe-
28 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

Power Radionics TM Devices
The 	RAD 	2000 	- 	3-Dial 	Power
Radionics TM Device
The RAD 2000 is a three-dial Radionics device
with a built-in middle of the line orgone
generator® (same as in the LPOG 2400 DL),
silver tubing output, stick pad, and beamer plate
(well).
While the radionics dials are used to connect
with a specific desired trend and/or target of a
radionics operation, the orgone generator®
intensifies the action and provides the life force
(“psionic power”) to succeed. A combination of
radionics and orgone physics gua-rantees powerful
operations for assured success. It is Power
Radionics TM !
Uses: The radionics device is “the universal
structural link”. 	Rather than using a symbol
(such as a card of a filter pack) to determine a
trend energy that is designed to a desired
effect, the 3-dial radionics device utilizes settings
(rates) of the envisioned energies. For more
insights about the use of structural links and
life force, we recommend that you study the
course “Magic of the Future” by Karl Hans Welz.
Use the three dial device to establish a desired
trend-target combination or to set a trend for
the person who is carrying the transfer disk or
any other link to the device.
You can greatly expand the Flexibility and
Potential of this radionics device with the RI
2400 CD or PR 2000 CD Power Radionics TM
Programs!
Use the Power Booster PBT 2400 to effectively
double the output.
The RAD 2400 HD - Heavy Duty Power
Radionics Device
The RAD 2400 HD is a Super Heavy Duty Power
Radionics TM Device. It has a built-in powerful
top of the line Chi Generator®, the same as in
the LPOG 2400 HD and Performer 2400.
It features an orgone (chi)-stick-pad. Use three
dials to set the rate for the target, three dials to
set the rate for thetrend, or desired action. The
other two dials set the pulse of the built-in Low
Pulse Orgone Module. Size: 12 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 3
1/4 in. The addition of pulsed life force (orgone,
Chi energy) to radionics makes it a reliable and
effective tool to help in your achieving success.
Theta 3.5 HZ — for Super Learning, especially
of Languages
Theta 6.3 Hz — for Super Learning and to Boost
Memory
Alpha 7.83 Hz — Earth Resonance! For
Invention, Creativity
Alpha 7.0 Hz — to enhance ESP (Extra Sensory
Projection)
Alpha 10.0 Hz — for Centering Yourself and
General Purpose
Beta 14.1 Hz — for Efficiency in daily activities,
energy
Continuous Settings, approx. 0.5 - 900 Hz
This awesome new technology adds continuous
and very powerful life force to your radionic
settings for the most rapid success possible! For
increased flexibility and at least double the
power, connect an additional exterior module
such as the EPM 2400 to the second orgone
generating unit inside the RAD 2400 HD!
The RAD 2400 HD comes with one transfer disk.
A built-in Voltage Regulator eliminates the “ripple”
from the AC-DC converter and keeps the voltage
at a steady 8V DC. Elimination of the “ripple” is
ideal when it comes to energizing your body!
Power supply: AC-DC adapter, 12V, 200mA or
higher.
Use archetypal or astrology-based filters or the
RI 2400 CD or PR 2000 CD Power Radionics TM
Programs to provide any activity you desire with
maximum versatility and effectiveness !!!
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	29

nomenon in the light of structural links,
you have no problem understanding its
reason.
We can use artificial equivalent
structures to connect with specific ener-
gies of a higher order (such as zodiacal
energies) which we can then use to gen-
erate specific trends. If we connect such
a generated trend with a structural link to
a person we can influence the trends that
this person experiences, i.e., we can
modify the "destiny" of the person.
The nature of the cosmic frame of
reference, the zodiac, gave rise to a new
technology: We have developed a frame
of reference that, with specific settings,
can connect with the system of cosmic
zodiacal energies. This allows us to gen-
erate any trend of our liking that we can
then project to any target of our liking.
We can use artificial equivalent
structures for readings and for practical
magic.
The fact that a specific artificial
equivalent structure is extremely useful
and can be applied universally does not
mean that this structure "is" the universe.
Such nonsense compares to saying that
a map is the territory it represents or our
language is the universe. The success of
specific magical mappings leads quite of-
ten to such assumptions. 	In the cases
where the impact of the mapping is on
specific psychological characteristics of the
human species and where it fits smoothly
some of the existing mechanisms of socio-
economic suppression, religions are born.
(YES!! 	From the preceding follows that
religion is a result of magical technology
that was misinterpreted by primitive hu-
mans!)
TO ESTABLISH A SYSTEM OF
ARTIFICIAL EQUIVALENT STRUC-
TURES TO ANYTHING INCLUDING
HOE OF THE UNIVERSE, YOU CAN
TAKE ANY SET OF ELEMENTS, AR-
RANGE THEM IN A SPECIFIC MANNER
AND ASSIGN SPECIFIC SYMBOLIC
VALUES AND MEANINGS TO THE EL-
EMENTS AND TO THE WAY THE ELE-
MENTS ARE ARRANGED. DETERMIN-
ING FACTORS FOR THE OVERALL
SUCCESS ARE FLEXIBILITY AND SYM-
BOLIC ADJUSTMENT TO THE "UNI-
VERSE" 	THAT 	THE 	EQUIVALENT
STRUCTURE 	RELATES 	TO. 	THE
MODEL THAT WE MAKE OF THE UNI-
VERSE IS A DETERMINING FACTOR
Some of the artificial equivalent
structures are true symbolisms while oth-
ers are simply arrays of symbols. 	In a
true symbolism the structure of the set is
important. The position of each element
of the symbolism in relation to all others
is of significance. 	Where such a relation
is not present, we speak of an array of
symbols. 	Examples of true symbolisms
are the tree of life, the tarot, mytholo-
gies, the entities of Bardon's spherical
magical system, and the Eighteen Sacred
Futhork Runes (the Armanen system -
available from HSCTI). 	Examples of ar-
rays are the Enochian system of magic,
the entities of the Lemegeton and most
other grimoires, all Runic systems besides
the Armanen system, and many of the
"arteestic" representations of the Tarot.
It is irrelevant whether you "chan-
nel" the system of artificial equivalent
structures (as is the case with the
Enochian system of magic) or feel it as
mythology or develop it logically.
Most channeled AES are arrays
rather than true symbolisms. 	The pro-
cess of the technological evolution of the
symbolism remains the same in any of
the cases, channeled and logically devel-
oped or mythological. 	Furthermore it is
important to realize the following: 	that
an artificial equivalent structure is com-
prehensive (i.e., there is nothing that you
could not apply it for) does not imply that
we could not establish infinite many other
such systems.
Too many good people fell into the
30 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

trap of accepting some specific system
as the "only truth" just because it proved
to be comprehensive. 	A useful map is
not a god! 	The tree of life is not the
universe. A mandala is not "all there is to
know."
On this place I want to remind the
eager traditional magician of something
important: 	What I said above shows
clearly that the "mystery school approach"
is a thing of the past, if not ridiculous.
The invention of the radionics device and
the individual approach of creating our
own sigils and systems of equivalent struc-
tures should LONG AGO have helped us
free ourselves from cumbersome "tradi-
tions" that take too smoothly the aspect
of organized religion.
The two extremes on a spectrum
that includes artificial and natural equiva-
lent structures are the following: The ra-
dionics box on one end reflects total flex-
ibility with no inherent "content" or struc-
tural linkage, when "off." 	The other end
of the spectrum sees the genetic code.
The genetic code is all structural linkage
with no flexibility. 	The radionics box al-
lows transfer to anything, but it takes work
to adjust it. The genetic code allows trans-
fer to the equal genetic code first and fore-
most. 	If the person who is targeted in
such a way puts up a block then the trans-
fer occurs naturally to the genetic code
that is most similar. 	This characteristic
puts some burden on a magician as far
as shielding is concerned.
The LPOG 2400 DL = Low Pulse
Orgone Generator® deLuxe
Middle of the Line Welz Chi Generator®,
beamer plate, silver tubing output, transfer
disk, built-in voltage regulator, ready to use.
The LPOG 2400 DL has 6 low 	frequencies
plus the option of continuous settings.
Theta 3.5 HZ - for Super Learning, especially
of Languages
Theta 6.3 Hz - for Super Learning and to
Boost Memory
Alpha 7.83 Hz - Earth Resonance! For
Invention, Creativity
Alpha 7.0 Hz - to enhance ESP (Extra
Sensory Projection)
Alpha 10.0 Hz - for Centering, also and a great
general purpose frequency
Beta 14.1 Hz - Efficiency in daily activities,
mental and physical energy
Continuous Settings, approx. 0.5 - 900 Hz
Low Frequencies, Mind Machines, and
the LPOG 2400
To appreciate the special characteristics of
the LPOG 2400 DL as well as the other
devices with the option of precise low
frequencies (the LPOG 2400 HD, the
Performer 2400, the JU 99 series, the RAD
2400 HD and the EPM 2400), it is an
advantage that you get acquainted with low
frequency technology. 	In fact, the most
important 	method 	of 	effective 	self-
improvement prior to the invention of the
Welz Chi Generator® resulted from new
knowledge of the working of the human brain.
It has been well established that every
thought, feeling, sensation, and level of
awareness has a corresponding brain wave
pattern, or frequency. Consequently, you can
determine the level of awareness that you
want to harness for your success by
controlling your brain waves. We know of
Alpha, Beta, Theta, and Delta brain waves,
all in the low frequency range from
approximately 1 Hz to 30 Hz (cycles per
second). Gamma frequencies are above 30Hz.
This method of controlling brain waves with
low frequency input is not new at all! In the
1930’s researchers found that repetitive light
and/or sound stimulation caused brain waves
to adjust to the same frequency. For decades
now, some “new age gurus” and other cult
leaders made extensive use of repetitive
sound pulses, often of the inaudible and
subliminal kind. This helps them to make
their captive audiences more receptive to their
preaching. Much earlier than that, as far back
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	31

in time as the very dawn of humankind,
shamans used drumming (repetitive beats of
low frequency) to put their audiences into
altered states where they had experiences that
they would not have in their normal state of
daily activities. In our times, this type of pulse,
or “beat” is used in many events where the
capturing of audiences and the temporary
control of their habits and minds is considered
to be important, such as in fashion shows,
exercise machine advertising, TV commercials,
military training, church meetings, and
infomercial pitches to the public, to name just
a few.
You can find a variety of good Light-Sound (LS)
devices on the market today. A LS-device
typically stimulates the brain indirectly with
light flashes through goggles and sound stimuli
(beats) through earphones. These stimuli will
cause the brain to adjust to the frequency of
the flashes and sounds and consequently
generate the corresponding level of awareness.
All LS-devices have a serious flaw: They depend
on earphones and goggles to be effective. In
other words: if you want to access a specific level
of awareness such as charismatic appearance,
calm, or creativity, you need to get the stimuli
through earphones and goggles.
It is obvious that you cannot wear these LS-
devices when you really need them! 	Just
imagine appearing on a date, an important
business meeting, or a sports event with an
LS-contraption on your head! And you cannot
do creative writing, or art, either while using
an LS-device on your head. You need to wait
until you can take it off your head, and then
your brain waves most certainly will adjust back
to their usual state.
That’s exactly where an LPOG 2400 DL makes
a big difference! By now it is well-established
that the technology of the Welz Chi
Generator ® 	is 	far 	superior 	over 	the
conventional 	type 	light-sound 	mind
machines. The reasons are obvious: You can
set up The Welz Chi Generator® to emit Low
Pulse Orgone in the exact frequency of brain
waves: Alpha, Beta, Theta, or Delta. When
you are in a field of LPO (Low Pulse Orgone, or
Chi), your brain can adjust to its frequency
almost instantly and with ease. 	This is so,
because the detour over sensory perceptions
or questionable electric mini-shocks (as in a
couple of more recent devices) is no longer
necessary. Life force in brain wave frequencies
means a more effective impact and therefore
faster results. You achieve the corresponding
states of mind almost in an instant !!! The
most striking advantage of our LPO technology
over conventional type mind machines is the
fact that you can project LPO (Low Pulse
Orgone) at any distance. 	Simply use a
structural link such as the TC 99 Transfer
Couple or the PBT 2400 Power Booster with
Transfer Disk, put it into your pocket, set your
generator at the desired pulse speed, and go
to a business meeting, on a date, to the gym,
to a sports competition, or anywhere else. In
fact, nobody will notice your invisible helper.
That’s all! You can relax or go about your usual
business at any place.
There is certainly no need for you to have those
cumbersome 	and 	ridiculous 	goggles,
earphones, or other contraptions, on your head
ever again!
Use archetypal or astrology-based filters, the
RI 2400 CD Radionics Program or the PR 2000
CD Power Radionics Program to power up any
activity you desire !!!
Naturally, any radionics device that you put
into the life force field of an LPOG 2400 DL or
any other Welz Chi Generator® will be more
effective. It becomes then a Power RadionicsTM
device that is boosted with life force.
Use the Power booster PBT 2400 to double the
output of the LPOG 2400 DL.
The LPOG 2400 HD = Super
Heavy Duty Low Pulse Orgone
Generator®
Super Heavy Duty Top of the Line Welz Chi
Generator®, with Beamer Plate (Well), silver
tubing output, and transfer disk, ready to use.
This powerful Chi Generator® is built like the
LPOG 2400 DL, and its orgone generator is at
least three times as strong. With an additional
input option for the EPM Exterior Precision
Module, you can more than double its power.
Same Low Frequency Options as the DL:
Theta 3.5 HZ — for Super Learning, especially
of Languages
Theta 6.3 Hz — for Super Learning and to
Boost Memory
Alpha 7.83 Hz — Earth Resonance! For
Invention, Creativity
Alpha 7.0 Hz — to enhance ESP (Extra
Sensory Projection)
Alpha 10.0 Hz — for Centering Yourself and
General Purpose
Beta 14.1 Hz — for Efficiency in daily
activities, and energy
32 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

EQUIVALENT STRUCTURES
AND ENERGIES OF A
HIGHER ORDER
In this and the following lessons I
am going to introduce you to mappings
of the universe that help you establish
useful equivalent structures for any magi-
cal work that you perform. 	These map-
pings relate to actual structures in our uni-
verse. 	When we use the word universe
we mean much more than what the aca-
demic physicist think the universe is. We
mean something that reaches beyond the
universe of time-space. The universe that
we talk about includes realm of action of
life energies (hyper spaces), the realms
that represent specific actions, or trends,
and the realms of creative energies. 	In
brief, this universe connects that which is
"material" in the meaning of classical
physics and that which is "magical." The
models that we establish of these realms
are very flexible. 	The fact that we can
succeed with establishing a near compre-
hensive model of these realms for our
purposes does not mean that we would
not have an infinite number of other ways
to model the same reality, or universe.
In the previous lessons I have re-
ferred to energies of a higher order
(HOE's) several times. When I say HOE,
I mean with it any action or trend that
operates beyond the realms of electro-
magnetic energy and life energy. 	In our
practical work with many models that
describe these energies we found that the
astrological model is one of the most use-
ful mappings of these energies. 	This is
so because the astrological model reflects
a cosmic structure after which life on this
planet is fashioned.
When working with HOE's, it is also
good that you come to some understand-
ing of the zero point energy. 	This is the
realm of what some metaphysicists call
"chaos." 	The zero is not a nothing but it
is a balance of forces that results in zero.
Some 	researchers 	use 	the 	term
"tachyonic" when they refer to chaos. 	If
you "disturb" that balance then you "cre-
ate" something. The interpretation of sev-
eral phenomena makes this mapping of
chaos a very useful one.
Energies of a higher order (HOE's)
have specific characteristics that pertain
to what metaphysicists call "higher
planes." 	We can see and measure their
effects. 	Many of these energies have a
characteristic to personify. 	By this we
mean that these energies can appear to
us as persons. This characteristic has to
do with our own structure. 	Personifica-
tion of HOE's, therefore, has a subjective
value that encompasses all of mankind.
Because of this characteristic to personify,
magicians of old times spoke of spirits,
gods, and the like when referring to HOE's.
This animistic approach has many advan-
tages. 	Above all you can create mytho-
logical systems that talk about interac-
tion of gods, adventures of god-like he-
roes and the like in order to speak of psy-
chological processes and other things that
are abstract. 	The mapping that follows
is in close leaning to the ancient gods of
the zodiac and to the classical "four ele-
ments." 	It is a description, or mapping,
of the higher planes that has proven to
be very useful. 	I suggest that you ex-
plore the realms that I am going to de-
scribe and that you develop your prac-
tices in using these energies. A good way
to explore these energies is to astrally
travel in their realms. 	You find instruc-
tions of how to do that in my "Course of
Cosmic Consciousness" that you can or-
der from HSCTI.
LESSON 	IV
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	33

Fire 	Water 	Air 	Earth
THE FOUR ELEMENTS AND
THE FOUR PLANES
The four elements together with
the four planes are an excellent frame-
work within which we can order the vast
amount of phenomena in the magical
universe. 	This framework allows us to
access any type of HOE we want to ac-
cess. 	The model that we are about to
describe is useful and comprehensive. But
again I need to point out that we can
make an infinite amount of other models
that are equally valid.
Before I am going to describe the
four planes I give you a brief description
of the four elements. 	As you know, the
metaphysical elements have little to do
with the chemical elements. 	These ele-
ments are basic qualities rather than ba-
sic substances as the chemical elements
are. The basic qualities of the metaphysi-
cal elements relate to our sensory expe-
rience and they are a projection of this
sensory experience into the realms of finer
density. Once we experience these realms
of finer density, we are aware that the
concepts of elements are generalizations
that are convenient for our work.
The four sensory experiences that
are at the root of the concept of the four
elements are: hot and cold, dry and hu-
mid. 	The pair, hot and cold, we refer to
as positive and negative. Dry and Humid
we refer to as electric and magnetic. It is
very important that you learn the table
below:
Fire and Water are the two primary
elements, opposite polarities, so to say.
Air and Earth are considered to be sec-
ondary, or mixtures of the first two. This
is a manner of viewing it.
Some researchers see air as an in-
teraction between the two basic principles
of fire and water. They consider earth to
be the synthesis of the three. 	The sym-
bolism of Divine trinities "above" the
worlds of manifestation somewhat re-
flects this view. 	You find this symbolism
in many pagan religions as well as in the
Christian religion which is in principle a
paganized Jewish religion.
Electric and Magnetic relate to the
phenomena of electromagnetic energy
and life energy. The fire element is elec-
tric-positive. 	On the material plane it is
energy, or light, in its conventional mean-
ing. 	The earth element is electric-nega-
tive. It is structured light, or "frozen light"
as some researchers say. 	Modern phys-
ics somewhat supports this theory.
The air element is magnetic-posi-
tive. On the material plane it is active life
energy, or free life energy. The water el-
ement is magnetic-negative, or structured
life.
34 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

Water - condensed life energy - struc-
tured orgone (prana, chi) - cold and hu-
mid - negative magnetic
Fire - volatile light - etheric electromag-
netism - hot and dry - positive electric
Earth - dense ("frozen") light - struc-
tured electromagnetism - cold and dry
- negative electric
Air - volatile life energy - etheric orgone
(prana, chi) - hot and humid - positive
magnetic
If we relate the four elements to
the material plane, we can easily order
the four elements. 	Earth and Water be-
long to the dense material plane while air
and fire are part of the etheric plane. The
labels "positive" and "negative" are ref-
erences to density. The elemental refer-
ences as being "fire, air," etc., are pic-
tures to make us understand easier the
basic qualities. 	The references to elec-
tromagnetism and life energy, dense
(structured) and volatile (etheric, non-
structured) conform more with the reali-
ties of modern physics and magic of the
future than would do the partition into
five elements that includes the "akasha
element" in leaning on Hindu philosophy.
The four elements are a good represen-
tation of the physical realities of light en-
ergy (electromagnetic energy) and life en-
ergy.
Let's repeat here:
The four elements supply us with
an excellent model for the planes of ex-
istence and in correlation with it planes of
experience within ourselves. 	The earth
element refers to that which is conscious,
or the material planes. 	The water ele-
ment refers to the human emotions and
to the astral plane. 	The air element re-
fers to the human mind and the mental
plane, while the fire element refers to the
human will and the causal plane.
Magicians see some "entities" or
energies of a higher order that correlate
to the four elements. 	These traditional
elementals are the salamanders for the
fire element, the sylphs are spirits of the
air element, the undines are spirits of the
water element, and the gnomes are spir-
its of the earth element.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	35

In a technological sense we may
view spirits as energies of a higher order
that are made to manifest (personify) in
the etheric plane.
In the following I am giving you a
set of correlations for each element.
These correlations will suffice for our
present work.
THE PLANES
The planes of existence correlate
with the elements. 	You must familiarize
yourself well with this model in order to
work toward consciousness of One with
the techniques that I am showing you in
the course of cosmic consciousness. You
may perceive these planes as "higher"
planes or as "inner" planes. 	As you
progress with your work you will get to
understand that this distinction between
"higher" and "inner" has only limited rel-
evance. Oneness with the Divine will ul-
timately elevate you into realms where a
distinction between "inner" and "higher"
become meaningless.
THE MATERIAL PLANE
The material plane is the plane
where you find all that is tangible and
where you find these things that you be-
come conscious of. Each one of the higher
planes has a material component which
is the realm where it can become 	con-
scious to you.
For convenience we subdivide the
material plane into two levels: the etheric
plane and the dense material plane. The
etheric plane is the plane that contains
free chi and free light energy. The dense
material plane is the realm that is struc-
tured.
Although we make such a distinc-
tion, there is no sharp border between
the two planes, but a continuous transi-
tion. 	Free chi and free light are only at
the threshold of chaos. 	The more mani-
fest these energies become the denser
are their appearances. Also, there is noth-
ing that is purely chi and there is nothing
that is purely light, there is nothing that
is totally dense and there is nothing that
is totally unstructured. 	The labels that
we use are describing extremes that are
beyond our existence. 	It is the mixture
of the elements that make things exist-
ing while the pure element by itself can-
not have any existence. 	The material
plane is far more complex than the space-
time continuum that modern physics at-
tempts to describe. Life energy does not
follow the laws of the three dimensional
universe that we measure, but it has its
own type of "space." 	The main charac-
teristic of that space is structural linkage.
THE ASTRAL PLANE
The astral plane contains matrices
of that which is tangible, or material. 	It
is the world of formation. 	The energies
of the astral plane are of a more subtle
nature than the energies of the etheric
and material planes. 	It is a world of de-
sire, of emotions. 	A spirit that has the
desire to manifest dwells in the astral. For
its manifestation a material focus is nec-
essary. A human being can direct a spirit
to gain an etheric form. 	If a magician
does that consciously we call it an evoca-
tion of the spirit. I have evoked spirits
and furnished them with sufficient life en-
ergy (with the Welz Chi Generator that I
invented) so that they could show their
form on Polaroid photos.
We can also project part of our en-
ergy field into the astral world and travel
there. This way we can gain contact with
entities without them needing to materi-
alize in an evocative process. 	In this
course you will learn to explore the el-
emental realms astrally.
36 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

THE MENTAL PLANE
The mental plane contains thoughts
and mental matrices. These energies are
still more subtle than the astral energies.
They relate to the human mind. Another
name for the mental planes is world of
creation. You may view the mental plane
as a universe of thought for which our
brain is the perceiving sensory organ.
THE CAUSAL PLANE
This plane is the realm of the will,
the world of emanation. 	It contains the
spark that brings things into manifesta-
tion by causing them to take the charac-
teristics of each plane that they pass
through: 	first a mental pattern, then an
astral body of desire, and eventually an
etheric or dense material shape.
To be conscious of Oneness you
need to consciously align all four elements
and to be consciously aware of all planes.
You bring your cosmic consciousness in
manifestation in the same way as other
ideas finally manifest.
Performer 2400 = Heavy Duty
Specialty Device
Powerful Performance Boosting Tool
that is legal and spells success !!!
Top of the Line Heavy Duty Welz Chi Generator®,
specially designed for persons who are involved
in sports, body building, and Fitness.
Twelve precise settings to accommodate
practically all 	of your requirements.
The Performer 2400 is a Heavy Duty Welz Chi
Generator® that features the ultimate brain
wave technology, specially designed to give
persons who are involved in competitive
sports, fitness training, and body building a
powerful edge over others. You can use it to
boost your performance to the max. Above
all, unlike many other performance enhancing
methods, it defies detection and it is perfectly
legal! Some folks actually call this exceptional
tool of power the ultimate unfair advantage!
The Performer 2400 features a built-in
Frequency Module that has been designed for
twelve precision low pulse settings. Each of
these frequen-cies has a special purpose that
is important for your power performance:
1. very relaxing (Endorphin frequency),
strengthens lower back.
2. HGH-frequency, helps develop muscle,
rejuvenation effects, rapid recovery
3. Reduces exhaustion, more energy for
extra reps.
4. Concentration and Precision, especially
for golf, target practice, etc., to reduce fear
5. vitality, focus on: Arms, Shoulders,
Upper Back, Chest
6. vitality, focus on: Abs, Legs, Glutes
7. grounding, anti-mind control, improved
stress tolerance; feeling revitalized like you’ve
spent a day in the country; enhanced learning,
mind-body coordination
8. coordination, mood elevator, sense of
well being & decreased pain, especially for
hangover & jet lag, improved learning,
centering, raise body temp, increase physical
strength, especially for weak muscle group
9. mind/body unity, enhances activating
supplements
10. energy, vitality, imposing subconscious
commands on another (body language projects
confidence of winning), therefore good to win
competitions, rejuvenation effects, enhances
muscle builders
11. confidence of victory in sports,
Increased Aggression, “energetic steroid”
12. Desensitizer; enhanced vigor &
alertness, more reps, overall training Stamina
and Endurance
The Performer 2400 supplies you with
continuous Chi energy! 	A Transfer Disk for
smooth and continuous supply of powerful life
force is included.
Of course, you can use the Performer 2400
the same way as you use the other Welz Chi
Generators, in conjunction with the Power
Radionics Program or with the filters of your
choice!
The manual that comes with your Performer
2400 HD will tell you how to use this exceptional
device for your success in sports competitions,
and then some! Size: 11 x 6 1/4 x 2 3/4 in.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	37

HOW THE PLANES
RELATE TO US.
The planes are a model that we
have established to describe the energies
of the universe as we perceive them and
as we interact with them. 	Manifestation
itself you find in the material plane, while
trends are part of the planes that are be-
yond the material one. The causal plane
sets an idea in motion, the mental plane
gives it its shape, the astral plane desire,
and the material plane allows manifesta-
tion. 	When we send magical action or
trends to a target we use energies of a
higher order (not manifested energies that
are part of the astral and mental planes)
and cause them to manifest at the tar-
get.
AN ASTROLOGICAL MAP
OF THE UNIVERSE
That there is a correlation between
astrological positions and trends on our
planet has been established long ago.
From empirical observations of ancient
magicians gradually a science evolved that
correlates the destiny and general trends
of every individual on this planet with the
position of the stars at this individual's
birth. More specific trends that are valid
for an individual can be found in an analy-
sis of the movements of the planets and
stars after its birth. 	The position of the
heavenly bodies in relation to a location
compares well to the setting of a radion-
ics device.
A closer analysis of the planets,
stars, etc., in the sky and their move-
ments yields some very interesting re-
sults: 	they follow interesting numerical
correlations. Bode's law expresses these
correlations.
Although astrology
has served mankind well,
most astrologers were at
a loss when they tried to
explain why the whole
thing worked. 	The old
assumption 	that 	the
heavenly bodies were
gods 	was 	somewhat
valid.
38 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

It even helped develop magical systems
that had the goal of establishing trends
other than what the stars promised by
placating these gods.
This animistic approach came
closer to the reality of astrological ener-
gies being HOE's than the ludicrous as-
trological theories of our days. 	The lack
of true scientific training of most modern
day astrologers finds its expression in the
theories that they formulate. 	While the
animistic approach of the astrologers of
ancient times gave at least rise to a tech-
nology of generating trends, the pop-sci-
entific approach of their modern day
counterparts brings nothing of that kind.
Astrology has totally degenerated into a
science that just interprets trends. Mod-
ern astrologers are nothing but a bunch
of counselors who have the advantage
of being capable of predicting future
trends.
Perhaps the best explanation of
why astrology works is the structural ap-
proach. With this we mean that the plan-
etary system acts like a large radionics
device. The nice thing about this radion-
ics device of cosmic proportions is that
the positions of its "dials" can be calcu-
lated in advance. This allows us to deter-
mine astrological trends in advance.
We can observe a specific function
of a biological, physiological, psychologi-
cal, etc., nature in connection with each
planet. 	Furthermore, the position of a
planet within the zodiac modifies its func-
tion and the distances of each planet to
any other (aspects) will increase or de-
crease the interaction of their respective
functions.
I suggest that you get a good in-
troduction into astrology to know the func-
tion of the planets and the zodiacal signs.
In the following I am going to elaborate
the connection of the solar system to the
cabalistic system. 	From there we are
going on to an approach that decribes a
vast amount of specific entities (HOE's)
that connect with the astrological sys-
tem. Such an approach you find in Franz
Bardon's book "The practice of magical
evocation." Each entity that Bardon men-
tions in his book has a specific sphere of
influence. To use this entity you need to
link up with it by means of its sigil. Then
you can connect it with the psychic link of
your target.
There is a great advantage to
knowing that the planetary system acts
upon us like a large radionics device. We
can develop equivalent structures to the
HOE's of the zodiacal 	factors. 	When we
energize these HOE's with life energy, we
create our own trends. This gives us back
the power of the wise of ancient times
who ruled the stars. 	The fact that our
approach is not animistic gives us the
added advantage of much greater flex-
ibility.
THE MAGICAL SQUARES
OF THE PLANETS
The planetary energies are an ex-
cellent system that we can use to estab-
lish trends. 	If the astrological system
determines trends that are in effect for
individuals, groups, and events, then the
following lends itself to us: We can struc-
turally connect with the factors that are
determining the astrological trends and
generate our own trends. This compares
to establishing a greenhouse of astrologi-
cal energies which we can then use at our
liking.
Structural connections with plan-
etary energies are ancient knowledge.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	39

One of the best ways to draw planetary
energies are the magical squares of the
planets. 	These squares are special nu-
meric arrangements that establish such a
connection. We know seven squares that
are valid for the "classical" planets. 	In
the sixth lesson you will find a brief de-
scription of the planetary functions and
of the meaning of the astrological signs.
Then you will find the planetary squares
and a set of symbols that represent the
signs of the Zodiac.
Practice #30: 	From the second part of
the sixth lesson copy the magical squares
of the planets. 	Take the squares one by
one and charge them. 	Observe, feel, or
meditatively tune into the energies. 	If
you have a Welz generator put the magi-
cal square of the planet between the out-
put of the generator and the structural
link. 	Compare the feelings that you get.
Make notes in your diary, if you have one.
Practice #31: Put a planet in a sign and
use that as a filter for your Welz Genera-
tor. 	Alternately you may put it inside a
triangle and draw the planetary energy
by projecting life energy onto it.
THE TAROT
The system of the Tarot is a set of
archetypal representations of fields of life
experience. 	It has a link with the zodiac
and its energies. Each card represents a
specific energy of a higher order. It would
go too far to give you here an introduc-
tion in the tarot and into astrology. I rec-
ommend that you purchase the appropri-
ate books and learn these systems.
Practice #32: Tune into the energies of
Tarot cards using a Welz Generator or pro-
jecting life energy into the cards.
Practice #33: 	Put a planetary square
into the radionics device. 	Energize the
device with life energy. Then put a trans-
fer diagram onto the stickpad and feel the
planetary energies on the second trans-
fer diagram.
Practice #34: 	Do the same with cards
of the Tarot. In each case it will be useful
if you keep record of the radionic rates
(the settings) so that you can use them
in the future.
40 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

The Power RadionicsTM Programs
As is the case with the Radionics Device, the
purpose of the Radionics Program is to establish
structural links. The purpose of a Welz Chi
Generator® is the generating of life force, or
Chi energy. Our programs are Power Radionics TM
Programs, because you can connect them
structurally with a Welz Chi Generator®, which
adds Power to your radionics operations.
purpose of the orgone generator® (Welz
Chi Generator®) is to provide the radionics
device with massive life energy in order
to get far reaching results faster, easier,
and more effectively than ever before!
This combination of the new Welz Chi Generator®
with the radionics device, Power Radionics TM ,
opened the door to many new ways to benefit from
radionics more effectively than ever before. For
this reason, the new Power Radionics Devices
and Power Radionics Programs are very
effective tools with near-infinite potential!
Why Power Radionics TM ?
Power Radionics is a gigantic step ahead of all
conventional radionics devices and radionics
programs (see the diagrams on page 13): It adds
massive life force to radionics. This means
continuous power driving towards the
results 	that 	you 	programmed 	into 	your
computer. The continuous flow of life force is
made possible with a special structural link that
connects your life force generator (Welz Chi
Generator®), the Power RadionicsTM Program and
the target of your operation: Therefore, each
program comes with a fully individualized transfer
card and the corresponding file on your program
that connect the trend and target settings of your
radionics device directly with the trend and target
functions in your program.
Another important feature that makes the Power
Radionics Program much more effective than the
rest is the fact that we included four settings in
addition to the “Trend” and “Target” settings
in the average radionics program:
(1) an orgone transfer function to energize
the Power Radionics Program (see above about
transfer cards)
(2) a basic energy (“Basic Action”) setting
that boosts the trend-to-target connection with
the principal energy field
(3) a setting for a trend energy that is
exerting 	an 	influence 	upon 	the
environment of the target, for a more rapid
overall success, and
(4) a setting for an alternative target. This
alternative target can also be used as a
“grounding function” to prevent repercussion to
the operator when the trend energy cannot reach
the envisioned target for reason of interference,
blockage, etc.
You 	find 	these 	extremely 	important
settings only in our Power Radionics
Programs. The obvious lack of such overall
flexibility naturally makes any other radionics
program on today’s market inferior to the Power
Radionics Programs from HSCTI !!!
You can use the program by itself, especially
when connected to an orgone generator (Welz
Chi Generator®). It works best in conjunction
with an orgone radionics device: the RAD 2000
or the RAD 2400 HD, and, especially, with the
RAD 5 with its 5 heavy duty orgone generators®,
one for each setting of the RI 2400 CD. In fact,
the RAD 5 was fashioned after the RI 2400 CD.
The RI 2400 CD Radionics Program and
Interface for PC
About Power Radionics TM
Radionics was first discovered a century ago. It
is a technology that involves interaction with
the human consciousness. This technology helps
you to project at any distance energy (life force)
and trends that give inclination to desired effects
or results. In the transfer test you have
experienced proof that distance is irrelevant in
work with radionics. You can use the radionics
device to project energy and trends to yourself
and to others. This fact makes radionics a
powerful tool in your hands, provided that you
have the open mind to make use of this
exceptionally effective technology.
We have shown you that such projection is
possible with the help of life force and structural
links. 	This works as well in the case where
such structural links are of a purely abstract
nature in the form of radionics settings, or
“rates”. In other words, the technology of
radionics can now easily be explained as a direct
consequence of the characteristics of life force:
Its transfer at any distance by way of structural
links and its negative entropy! Assumptions of
“esoteric” speculations, or assumptions, such
as non-measurable “frequencies”, “higher
planes”, “astral energies”, “morphogenetic
fields” and the like certainly are a thing of the
past, obsolete, and no longer necessary for a
scientific explanation of the amazing effects of
radionics!
Power Radionics TM is the logical consequence of
this new understanding of radionics: While the
purpose of the radionics device is the
establishing 	of 	structural 	links, 	the
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	41

Actually, you can run as many radionics
operations simultaneously as you want and
your computer permits. For simultaneous
operations, the RAD 5 or the ATGS 3000 are
ideal Chi Generators®. With the ATGS 3000 you
can run up to 12 simultaneous power radionic
operations!!!
The Power RadionicsTM Program comes with well
over 1,000 images — a smorgasbord for every
serious operator!!!
Especially the magician will appreciate that
addition of the talismans of the Key of Solomon
the King, the Abramelin Squares, the talismans
of the Faust Grimoire, of the Sage of the
Pyramids, of the Goetia, and a great many
more.
The PR 2000 CD Power RadionicsTM
Program for PC
Like the RI 2400 CD, with additional
features:
Easy Solutions for your Challenges:
Power Radionics TM comes with thousands of
ready-to-use filters for 	every purpose. You
can also use your own easily created filters or
images for limitless possibilities.
SureRate System: The Power Radionics TM
Program is equipped with an interactive
stickpad which ensures the correct radionic
settings or rates for your application simply by
moving your mouse over a designated area of
the screen. There is no guess work!
Translucent Chi Transfer: As an option,
you can have Power Radionics TM create an exact
filter by combining the Chi transfer and link
image together to form a pass-thru on every
point.
This new combination of the Welz Chi
Generator® with the radionics device, i.e.,
Power Radionics TM , opened the door to
many new ways to benefit from radionics
more effectively than ever before. This
is 	the 	reason 	why 	the 	new 	Power
Radionics TM Devices and Power Radionics TM
Programs are very effective tools with
near-infinite potential!
A LIST OF EQUIVALENT
STRUCTURES
What follows is a list of some of
the systems of structural links with enti-
ties that we know of. 	The classification
into "natural" and "artificial" is somewhat
arbitrary. 	Most artificial systems of
equivalent structures have a natural ba-
sis.
The fact that equivalent structures
work gives rise to many magical meth-
ods. When we think of structure, we usu-
ally think of a graphic outline. We disre-
gard the fact that there are many more
possibilities of structural linkage than al-
phabets and graphical sigils. We can use
shapes in any sensory experience as
equivalent structures. In the following you
will see a list of equivalent structures,
natural and artificial ones, that have
proven to be useful for the establishing of
structural links to persons (targets) and
specific energies (trends). It will be good
if you get acquainted with some of them.
METHODS TO EXPRESS AND
ESTABLISH EQUIVALENT
STRUCTURES
1. The Word (prayers, psalms, man-
tras, etc.)
Here you find words of power, sa-
cred mantras, mantras that you establish
with the radionics device, so-called bar-
barisms or formulas that you can use to
call entities, the names of entities,
prayers, psalms, chants, cryptic "lan-
guages," etc. Note: Many of these items
are "channeled" or received in evocative
processes. Consequently they invariably
bear the mark of the language in which
they originated. Examples: The entities
of Franz Bardon's system are pronounced
in German. 	The Enochian language has
entirely English sound structure and gram-
mar all through. 	Considering the speed
42 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

at which language, sound pronunciation,
and grammatical structures change over
time one can only be amused when hear-
ing the ludicrous claim that Enochian is a
very ancient language. This however does
not impair the effectiveness of the sys-
tem!
2. Design
In this category fall all symbols that
we establish to connect with entities
(HOE's). Some of these graphic symbols
seem freely invented while others follow
specific principles of design. 	In most in-
stances an entity has a name and a sigil.
Often the sigil is a graphic representation
of the name following some kind of de-
sign that is based on the letters with which
the name is written.
3. Things in the Environment
In this category fall objects that you
can find in the environment. "Spirit" told
ancient magicians, or shamans, which
herbs can do what. There are powers that
are attributed to gems, animals, trees, lo-
cations, etc., that connect with zodiacal
signs and planets, trees that are sacred
to specific gods, and much more. 	Stud-
ies in folklore, herbalism, and older as-
trology and magic books are a rich source
of these correlations.
4. 	Body Postures, dances, hand po-
sitions, etc.
Body postures, hand positions, and
dancing are excellent methods to serve
as structural links for specific energies.
5. The Mind
Here you have visualizations of the
entities, colors, imagination of the pres-
ence of entities, specific feelings, etc.
6. Paraphernalia
Paraphernalia are man made ob-
jects that serve as structural links repre-
senting specific energies, entities, per-
sons, or situations. 	Repeated use of a
magical utensil attaches energies of a
higher order to it that you then need no
longer evoke in a magical practice. Con-
sequently you can use energies for things
other than routine.
7. Technological Devices
These are man made objects that
are of use to establish structural links.
Their characteristic is flexibility and the
possibility to arbitrary settings to estab-
lish any structural link the magician
chooses. 	The designs and look of these
devices depends on fashion. 	A typical
example is a radionics device. 	Another
good example is an altar that you may
set up to connect with any specific target
and energy (spell) of your choice.
8. Logical Concepts (numbers, alpha-
bets, etc.)
Whenever human beings start to
use numbers and letters they assign to
them magical meaning. 	The magical al-
phabets and the symbolism of numerol-
ogy are good examples.
SETS OF EQUIVALENT
STRUCTURES
The human characteristic to ab-
stract, to order and to generalize led to
the establishment of magical hierarchies.
Good examples are the many my-
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	43

thologies. 	Each god has a specific func-
tion. 	The god may be contacted with
specific dances, sigils, colors, ceremonials,
etc., then the god will do the bidding of
the magician. Medieval grimoires are con-
densed mythologies that have had the
purpose to provide the magician with
those things that the magical practices
of organized religion could not deliver.
Each one of the entities in such a grimoire
has its symbol and often a set of barbar-
isms (sounds that are not language) to
call them.
In more advanced cultures the my-
thologies connect with the astrological
Such sets of equivalent structures
usually relate to many different methods
to establish the specific structures as de-
scribed above. Of a god you have a sigil,
a name, a mantra to chant, a color, a
metal, a planet, a letter, etc.
A good magical hierarchy is all en-
compassing. By this we mean that a good
magical hierarchy should have the flex-
ibility to connect with any trend that we
intend to generate. 	The elements that
we may read into the cosmic radionic de-
vice (the astrological zodiac) represent a
natural hierarchy. 	The ten Sephiroth of
the tree of life represent a system of ab-
system. In this case happened a shift of
correlations: from correlating with natu-
ral phenomena in the direct environments
the gods shifted into correlating with the
powers of the planets that generate
trends.
Another development is the estab-
lishing of alphabets. Each of the letters is
assigned a specific meaning. 	Primitive
logic plus tuning into metaphysical reality
brought forth several sets of equivalent
structures that we can regard as being
true symbolisms. In these sets the posi-
tion of each of its elements in relation to
all other elements is of crucial significance.
In all cases where such an alphabetic set
connects with the astrological system we
find a basis for a true symbolism.
stractions that have a similar flexibility.
The Eighteen Sacred Futhork Runes that
connect with the periodic system of ele-
ments relate to a system of creative en-
ergies. 	Most religious and mythological
systems fulfill these criteria. It has proven
to be an advantage on magical work when
the sets of equivalent structures of a magi-
cal system correlate with basic human ex-
periences. These are patterns of sensory
experience, established methods of think-
ing and communicating such as spoken
language and body language, psychologi-
cal structures, socially established pat-
terns of interaction within groups and with
the environment, primary abstractions,
etc.
44 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

CONCLUSION:
For the magician of the future it is
important to choose a valid set of a magi-
cal hierarchy. 	Such choice needs not to
be a one time commitment as demanded
by religious systems. 	Quite to the con-
trary, the magician of the future knows
well that a specific magical hierarchy is
but one way of classifying the energies of
the universe. 	Therefore it is useful for
the magician of the future to acquaint him/
herself with as many sets of equivalent
structures as possible. 	This will give the
magician a wide variety of choices of ac-
cess to the energies of the universe.
Practice #35: 	Using the radionics de-
vice and a photograph of your room
(Polaroid) develop the "mantra" to ac-
cess a specific point of your choice. Then,
with the same method, establish the
mantra that connects with energies of the
Sun. Then go ahead and chant both man-
tras while your partner checks the area
in the room for energy.
Practice #36: 	Using a synthesizer and
the stick pad of a radionics device to es-
tablish the sound pitch or chord first of a
location or target and then of an energy.
Do the same thing as described in prac-
tice #35, but have the synthesizer play
the sounds.
Practice #37: Get a structural link with
a location or target with the synthesizer,
then use a magical square to represent a
planetary energy that you send to the
location or target.
The EPM 2400 Exterior Precision
Module
Range: 0.01 Hz to 99.99 Hz
Precision: 1/100,000
Attach this exterior module to the Heavy Duty
Devices: LPOG 2400 HD and RAD 2400 HD. This
exact frequency module boasts a total of 10,000
settings. 	Its 	precision 	of 	1/100,000 	is
unsurpassed.
Advantages of the EPM 2400: The “Input EPU”
jack on the heavy duty devices (the RAD 2400
HD and LPOG 2400 HD) leads to a second
generator in the Heavy Duty orgone generating
units. This second generator can be powered
up with a pulse input from the EPM 2400.
When having both generators running, you can
more than double the power output of your
heavy duty device.
The advantages of this exact frequency
generator are obvious: With it you can now
set your generator output at any frequency
that you desire, any frequency that best
reflects your needs.
This exterior precision pulse module has been
designed to meet the requirements of persons
who desire to set any frequency of their choice
with absolute precision, stability, and reliability.
This exact frequency requirement is desirable
for specific purposes such as performance
enhancement in sports, or when you work with
a radionics system that is based on actual
frequency settings. Therefore, you can use it in
conjunction with a stick pad, pendulum or other
device to determine frequencies that work very
much like radionics rates. This way you can
either set up a system of exact frequencies that
reflect specific trends or you can use a book
that gives you a list of these frequencies.
The radionics qualities of this extraordinary
device allow you to get a frequency rate either
by rubbing a stick pad, then, when you feel the
“stick”, by pushing the “random” button, or by
releasing the other buttons to set frequencies
whenever you feel the stick.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	45

PROTECTION IN THE WORK
WITH ENERGIES
In the previous lessons you have
learned the scientific basis of magical tech-
nology. What you learned concerns in the
main the principles of directing trends, or
action, at any target, be it far away or
not. These principles are life energy and
structural links. 	In lesson four I have
shown you the basics of energies of a
higher order and of magical hierarchies in
which these energies are ordered. I have
also pointed out how to establish struc-
tural links with elements ("spirits") of
these magical hierarchies.
The term "spirit" evolved because
most of these energies of a higher order
can personify and as such interact with
the practicing magician. 	If the magician
proceeds to give the energy sufficient
etheric matter (life energy) then the en-
ergy of a higher order manifests as an
entity that the magician can perceive and
even photograph. To call in a spirit means
then to condense a specific trend to the
extent that it manifests. 	Such an entity
has its own way of action and the magi-
cian needs
to learn methods of controlling them. This
compares well to the control of energies
on the material plane such as electricity
and life energies. Here too the technician
has to follow certain rules in order to keep
from being hurt. The control of energies
of finer densities has to be within their
realms: on the astral and mental planes.
If the magician lacks the skill of proper
protection and control, the success of the
magical operation may be in question. If
the spirit is well defined and the energy
field of manifestation relatively weak there
is no big need for protective measures.
In such a case however the desired ef-
fect will come relatively slowly.
LESSON 	V
Protective measures and control
measures have to be set in motion in the
planes where the energies are active.
Magicians of the past called this process
the process of establishing authority over
the spirit world. 	They devised several
methods for establishing authority. These
methods included personal training as well
as the use of structural links that repre-
sent energies that control the spirits. 	A
simple practice of burning incense can es-
tablish a structural link to protective mea-
sures.
In the following I am guiding you
through several protective measures.
Practice #38: Establishing a Circle of Pro-
tection
Practice #38A: 	Exploring the evocative
meaning of a symbol
Do the following exercise: Lay out
a circle of about 5 to 7ft diameter on the
floor. You may draw the circle with a piece
of chalk or simply use a rope that you lay
down in the shape of a circle. Then blank
your mind, if you can do this, and look
(without interference of thoughts, or
words) at this circle that you lay out on
the floor. 	Now notice the impressions
that you get. Perhaps write them down.
Your next step is to enter the circle.
First sit down in the center of the circle.
Again blank your mind and take notes.
Then stand up. 	Slowly turn around until
you are back to your original position.
Carefully note your impressions.
What you have done is an attempt
to tune into the meaning of symbols with-
out interference of thought that would
assign a meaning logically. 	This was an
exercise in primary abstraction in which
you get sensory meaning before words
come in. 	This is a very basic experience
46 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

of living beings. 	From feelings that you
get this way you can derive powerful
methods in magic, because such experi-
ence touches on levels that are not easily
accessible to conscious thought, but nev-
ertheless very active in human life.
Metaphysicists say that the circle
refers to the universe, to completeness,
and to protection. 	If you did your previ-
ous exercise right, you have noticed that
there other significances to the circle:
significances of a magical nature that you
cannot easily express with words, but
which nevertheless are very real. 	With
the previous exercise you have begun to
touch the realms of creation.
As a conclusion we can say the fol-
lowing: 	When we work with a symbol,
the first that comes into our minds is a
logical interpretation of the symbol. 	In
the case of a circle this is enclosure, pro-
tection, a whole system, the universe, etc.
The second meaning of the symbol is ex-
perience that you can derive as a result
of primary abstraction. Primary abstrac-
tion is abstraction that works with the
sensory apparatur without the interfer-
ence of words. The second set of mean-
ings of the circle is of an evocative na-
ture.
You may do the practice that I de-
scribed above with any other symbol. An
ideal set of symbols for that purpose are
the Eighteen Sacred Futhork Runes. This
Runic system is a symbolism that is mainly
evocative. 	The energies of these sym-
bols touch on the creative levels. There-
fore they have a minimum of definitions.
Practice #38B: Setting up a Circle of Pro-
tection
Lay out your circle on the floor. Now
you do the following: 	While projecting
life energy into the rope you build a wall
of life energy that has the rope as a base.
Feel the wall or have your partner feel it.
Now you shape the wall into a bubble that
extends also beneath the circle. Feel the
wall from the inside and from the out-
side.
This an exercise only. Considering
the fact that life energy transmits through
hyperspaces a wall of life energy in three
dimensional space is totally ineffective.
However it is the concept of protection
that the drawing of circles and the erec-
tion of walls signify. 	Based on this ex-
tended concept you are capable of ex-
panding the effect of the sphere into serv-
ing as a protection. The actual protection
becomes a sphere that extends into hy-
perspace and that cuts off any life energy
based transmission. 	Most humans are
incapable of actually visualizing hyper-
spaces. 	However, use of the sphere or
circle as a symbol gives sufficient protec-
tion in most cases.
You may have heard of lots of
methods of how to structure protective
spheres. 	These methods cover a wide
range including white light, mirror sys-
tems, and other new-agey pop-scientific
mathematical concepts. A skilled hyper-
space mathematician will penetrate any
and all of these shields with no problem
at all. However it is useful to begin some-
where. 	The circle of protection that you
have set up just now is a good protection
for the work with most energies. 	This is
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	47

so because the concept of the circle car-
ries a lot of evocative meaning. 	There-
fore I stressed the preliminary exercise
of exploring the evocative dimension of
the circle. Repeat this exercise again, this
time with your experiences with the
bubble, or sphere, in mind. 	Then set up
a new bubble.
A circle represents also emptiness.
The interior of the three dimensional
sphere in which you stand does not allow
material manifestation of entities. 	It's a
sphere of exclusion. Manifesting entities
have to be outside this sphere. 	To be
more thorough you may need to extend
the sphere into additional spatial dimen-
sions. 	This would add distance to the
protection.
Practice #39: Confining the energy into
a triangle or mirror
In the previous practice you have
learned to keep an energy out of some-
thing. 	One of the functions of an empty
circle is the removal of any material point
where an energy could manifest. 	The
practice that we are describing here has
the opposite goal. It is the creation of an
atmosphere that makes it easy for an
energy of a higher order to manifest. This
practice is also helping to confine the en-
ergy inside a well defined realm. 	Once
the energy is made to manifest and well
confined you have a reservoir from which
you can project the energy at any target.
While the circle represents emptiness, the
triangle allows manifestation. 	A triangle
that you extend into space naturally be-
comes a tetrahedron, or three sided pyra-
mid with a base. This is an excellent rep-
resentation of structure in a three dimen-
sional space.
Practice #39A: Build a Triangle.
As in practice #38A, determine the
three corners of the triangle. Then project
life energy to form a pyramid above the
triangle. Next you project life energy in-
side the pyramid. 	Use the drawing and
projecting method that you learned in les-
son #2 or use a Welz Generator. 	The
Welz Generator works best if you have
already put a charge inside the triangle
before you switch it on. 	Feel the energy
of the triangle.
The Power Boosters and Transfer
Couples
to increase the output of standard and
middle of the line Chi Generators® and for
Energy Transfer.
The 	Power 	Booster 	PBT
2400 (like all devices, with
silver tubing) comes with a
Transfer Disk. The Transfer Disk
will give you assured smoother
transfer of life energy.
Both, the power booster and the transfer disk
are made of the new Super-Orgonite®. A built-
in structural link connects the transfer disk with
its Power Booster. 	Booster size: 1.5” long, 1.7”
diameter - Transfer Disk: 1” diameter
Uses: Carry the transfer disk on you while your
Orgone Generator® or Orgone Radionics TM
Device with attached Power Booster is in your
home. With this simple arrangement, you can
carry the energy of your Orgone Generator® or
Orgone Radionics TM Device with you - any place
in the universe! It is especially suited for the JU
99 CE and other Chi EnergizersTM , the output of
which the power booster more than triples, and
the middle of the line devices (the RAD 2000
and the LPOG 2400 DL), the power of which is
doubled by the PBT 2400.
Transfer Couple TC 99: Put
one part in front of the output
pipe of any Welz Chi Generator.
Carry the other part on you. You
decide which part you prefer to
carry on you. Disk diameter: 1
-- Rectangle size: 1.75” x 0.8”
(sizes may vary)
48 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

Practice #39B: Charge a Mirror
Do the same practice as above by
projecting energy into a mirror. It is good
to have the mirror positioned inside a tri-
angle.
Both practices, the circle and the
triangle, are an excellent help in the work
with energies of a higher order. The circle
removes the potential of manifestation for
the energy. 	It is an insulating device for
the practicing magician. The triangle gen-
erates a strong field of life energy that
helps confining the energy within its lim-
its. 	The geometric shapes that we use
for our visualization are very helpful, but
they are of secondary importance in our
work. 	If you become rooted in concepts
of hyper space mathematics you need
no longer these symbols of circle and tri-
angle. For the time being it is imperative
that you learn these practices.
SUMMONING AND
CONTROLING ENERGIES
OF A HIGHER ORDER
Now that you have learned meth-
ods of protection and methods to estab-
lish an etheric base for the manifestation
of HOE's where you may contain them for
a while, it is time that you learn to draw
and to control these energies. 	Drawing
the energy is easy. You draw the energy
for a specific purpose. This purpose may
be simple exploration of its capabilities or
it may be actual use of the energy in
magical work. In either case you need to
learn how to control the energy and how
to dispel it.
You can always dispel an energy by
removing the life energy from the triangle
by visual grounding. 	You can do so by
shaping a circle (sphere) around the tri-
angle and imagining the life energy drain
into the energetic ocean of the universe.
It is more useful to interact with the en-
ergy and ask it to leave. In these cases it
is easier for you to keep the energy on
call for future uses.
Practice #40: Summoning, Controlling,
and Dispelling
In the following you learn a simple
method to draw, control, and finally dis-
pel an energy of a higher order.
Practice $40A: Summoning of a HOE
I have devised
the following practices
in a way that they
would be safe even if
you had no barrier at
all.
Set up your circle. Then set up your
triangle. Draw the shape of a triangle on
a circular table. 	You may also use some
rope and lay it on the table in the shape
pf a triangle. 	The circular table is very
useful because it gives you an added bar-
rier.
Now you put a mirror inside the tri-
angle. 	A small mirror that stands up is
fine. 	You may use a frame for photos
and spray paint the glass with black paint.
Black instead of silver coating is helpful in
what we are going to do. I have worked
perfectly well with the ordinary silver mir-
ror. 	Put two candles on the sides of the
mirror.
Now put the sigil of an entity in front
of the mirror. 	For our example use the
symbol of a genius from the sphere of
Venus that you find in Franz Bardon's book
"The Practice of Magical Evocation." 	The
name of that entity is Owina. 	You can
order this book from HSCTI. 	It is an ex-
cellent work that introduces you to prac-
tical evocative methods. You find the sigil
in the appendix of this course. Draw this
sigil in green color. 	Green is the color
that relates to the sphere of Venus.
Project life energy into the triangle. Imag-
ine this life energy being of green color.
This way you give the field of life energy
an aspect of Venus. The green color helps
the manifestation of energies of Venus.
You can aid the projection of life energy
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	49

with a Welz Generator. Once the triangle
is filled with life energy you may call the
energy by its name while focusing on its
sigil. 	This way you establish the struc-
tural link with the HOE in the astral. You
can either see a shift of life energy inside
the triangle or you may feel the presence
of the entity by a sudden rush of
goosebumps.
Now you may begin to look into the
mirror. 	Look at your face and see how
its features change. Blank your mind dur-
ing this practice and wait for any impres-
sions that you may get. 	These impres-
sions may be visions, thoughts, assur-
ances, etc.
If you have built up the field of life
energy with a Welz generator you may
make a photo of the table. 	Chances are
that the energy appears on film. When I
make photos of this kind the energy takes
some kind of shape or it appears as a
light.
Practice #40B: Controlling the HOE
Control of the HOE is relatively
simple once you have established your
authority over the energy. 	There are
many ways to establish authority. 	One
of the most useful ways of establishing
authority over entities is being aware of
your Divine nature. 	You can do this by
aligning the elements of will, emotions,
mind, and consciousness within yourself.
I like to work with a circle that repre-
sents the energies from the realms of cre-
ation to control the energies of a higher
order. These energies set a barrier of
near-chaos energy between myself and
the HOE's that I cause to manifest. Con-
versely the creative powers help the
manifestation of the HOE's that I call in
by supplying them with energy. 	When I
am one with the creative energies I have
an excellent key to control the HOE's that
I am calling in. 	Rune Masters have no
problem with control of entities, provided
that they studied the Sacred Futhork, or
the eighteen creative energies of the uni-
verse.
Practice #40C: Dispelling the HOE
Dispelling is a form of control. You
have to know the practices of dispelling
before you begin with the exercising of
other forms of control. 	Again Oneness
with the Divine or awareness of your Di-
vine nature by aligning the elements is
your most powerful weapon.
If you have used a Welz Generator
to make the energy manifest, you need
to remove it from the triangle. The sup-
ply of life energy will stop.
You proceed by grounding the life
energy. 	You have learned that life en-
ergy follows the direction that your mind
gives it. Imagine the life energy draining
from the triangle into the ground. 	This
takes away the energy that the entity
needs to manifest.
Then tell the entity to leave and
thank it for its manifestation.
Controlling the Energy with
a Field of a Higher Order
There are many practices that fall
under this category. 	Some authors give
the recommendation to identify with an
entity that has a controlling power over
the spirit that you intend to command.
Oneness with the divine principle is more
useful. This is so because all entities are
subject to the Divine Will and because we
are a reflection of the divine principle.
Once you are one with the Divine and in
tune with the higher planes, you can com-
mand the entities that inhabit these
planes. You achieve Oneness with the di-
vine by aligning the elements of will, emo-
tions, mind and consciousness. 	I am
teaching this practice in my Course on
Cosmic Consciousness. 	You find this
course 	for 	free 	on 	the 	Internet:
www.hscti.com/coscons
The practice that I have described
under practice #40B also establishes a
50 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

field of a higher order that controls the
entity that you evoke. Another of my fa-
vorite methods is a universal pentacle that
represents all the energies of the cabalis-
tic system. If I put the square of a planet
into that universal pentacle, I generate
rapidly the corresponding planetary en-
ergy. 	Then I use this energy to control
the entity that falls under its domain.
Another problem with these old manu-
scripts is the spirit with which they have
been written. People for whom the books
were written had a religious fervor that
was a powerful protection. 	Hardly any
one of the modern magicians can claim
to have such a religious fervor. Therefore
a modern magician needs to use other
methods of control.
Controlling the energy with
the threat of Destruction
Ancient grimoires abound with
threats of destruction if the entity does
not obey. The threat of destruction is for
real. 	This does not mean that the entity
will be wiped off the universe for good. It
simply means that the entity will lose its
astral body as related to the magician's
realm. 	When it loses its astral body, the
desire to manifest will cede to exist, and
so does the chance to manifest in the
material plane (etheric plane) of con-
sciousness unless its astral body is recon-
structed in some way. 	An entity whose
astral body is destroyed is removed from
its sphere of potential manifestation to
which it naturally gravitates. 	The self-
preserving spirit of an entity will do any-
thing to prevent such an effect.
This is the meaning of having a
dagger, sword, or trident on the altar.
These tools relate to the mental plane that
controls the astral world.
An excellent tool that shatters any
astral form and makes it dissolve in the
energetic ocean of the universe is the
blasting glyph. Its design reminds us of
Many of the more ancient books
of magic have evocative circles with some
symbols inscribed. 	These symbols are
structural links that connect you with the
energies that are superior of the entities
that you are going to evoke out of such a
circle. You take the aspect of the control-
ling deity without actually evoking it. 	It
is the part of that deity within yourself
that is the controlling factor and not an
exterior force.
I suggest that you examine well
such a circle before you use it. 	Many of
the old books contain mistakes that are
put there on purpose or by negligence.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	51

a trident, but it has some Uranian and
Saturnian nature to it. Simply imagining
the blasting glyph and giving it an etheric
form is a powerful weapon! 	You can al-
ways use this tool when an entity refuses
to leave. It is a tool that's quite convinc-
ing when you wield it against an entity.
PSYCHIC INTERFERENCE
At times magical work yields no
results. 	This has several reasons. 	The
main reasons are the following:
1. The magician failed to establish a suf-
ficiently powerful field of life energy. Trans-
fer could not occur for that reason.
2. 	The magician failed to establish the
proper structural links, again with a lack
of transfer.
3. 	The magician lacked the capability to
control the spell energies.
4. 	The target blocked itself psychically
by setting up protective measures. 	No
transfer would reach it.
5. 	Psychic interference caused blockage
and/or deviation of life energies.
The first three cases can be over-
come with the appropriate training, tech-
nological devices, and proper power sup-
ply such as Welz Generators. Psychic in-
terference and shielding need to be by-
passed or overcome in other ways. 	This
requires that the magician recognizes the
nature of psychic interference and then
takes the appropriate steps to be success-
ful.
New! The AO 2000 Water
Optimizer TM
Orgone water is well known. It is water that has
absorbed life force (Chi energy, orgone, prana)
after having been put either into an orgone ac-
cumulator or in the vicinity of an orgone genera-
tor™.
Such water is super charged with life force and
very beneficial. It has a slightly bitter after taste,
and it does not have the properties of "living water",
i.e., water that has been revitalized into its origi-
nal state.
Most living water products on today’s market lack
the massive life force that water can absorb in
an orgone accumulator or next to an orgone gen-
erator®.
With the AO 2000 Orgone Aqua Optimizer™ you
can now get the best of both worlds: Living water
that is saturated with life force. 	This extraordi-
nary new device is the result of the Super-Orgonite®
composite material in a new generator of polar-
ized Chi energy that contains also all the necessary
elements to put water back into its "sweet tast-
ing" original state. Get proof of it with our free test!
Using Orgone Radionics™ technology, you can now
get this test anywhere, no matter how far away
you are from our equipment.
Living water that is charged with life force stays
fresh longer as a result of significant microbio-
logical changes towards a healthy environment.
It features:
A taste that's excellent, even addic-
tive
A softer "feel" when you reach into it
A powerful feeling of being energized
after you drink it
A better taste of food and drinks and
longer life
It 	enhances 	the 	growth 	of
plants. This is plainly visible: stron-
ger plants, more blossoms and larger
and better tasting fruit, and more
beautiful flowers
It can save you laundry powder
Being saturated with life force, it
keeps helping the environment even
after use
It is attractive to animals. Especially
cats feel attracted to water that has
been revitalized by means of satu-
ration with life force
You can make living water (water that has been
returned to its natural energetic state and satu-
rated with Chi energy - life force) with
ease: Simply put a bottle or cup of water of your
choice (store bought or filtered) on top of the
new AO 2000 (Aqua OptimizerTM 2000) for a few
minutes. Then enjoy.
An additional feature of the AO 2000 is that it
improves the taste of any food or drink that you
put on it for a few minutes.
52 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

PRACTICAL MAGIC
In this lesson you will learn a few
practices that are part of magic. 	Exam-
ine these practices in the light of scien-
tific magic as you have acquired in the
previous five lessons. 	Chances are that
you will find your own methods to improve
on these methods. As a further exercise
you may purchase any good book that
teaches magical rituals and examine them
in the light of what you have learned in
the preceding lessons.
The second part of this lesson will
contain tables and diagrams that are use-
ful for the practicing magician.
Practice #41: How to Make a Talisman
The following is a practice that re-
flects much of the magical work that you
are going to do. 	You will reuse all of the
magical paraphernalia that you are going
to prepare in this practice. The following
practices will build on this one, therefore
LESSON 	VI
do not skip it. 	Eventually you will find
ways to do most of the practices without
any paraphernalia. In fact, you could do
so right away. 	However I suggest that
you follow the instruction in this practice.
This will give you a good basis for your
future work.
You need:
1. Your magical wand. By now you should
have covered it with Vinyl or with leather.
Use the wand to project energy. You may
use a Welz generator and put a transfer
design inside the wand.
2. 	Two candles. 	Preferably beeswax
candles. Candleholders.
3. A cup that you may fill with water
4. 	An incense burner
5. 	Something representing the material
plane. 	This may be a crystal or a large
pentagram.
6. 	Some incense. 	Frankincense is good
for our purpose.
7. A Universal Pentacle. The uni-
versal pentacle is a design from the
"Key of Solomon the King." 	You
can use this design for approxima-
tion of astrological trends. By plac-
ing the appropriate magical square
into its center portion you can build
up the energy of its planet. 	You
can intensify this energy by adding
the Sator Arepo talisman (also in-
cluded in course). 	Use the pen-
tacle that comes with this course.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	53

It may be good if you laminate it. 	You
may also purchase a laminated Universal
Pentacle from HSCTI.
8. 	The Sator Arepo talisman that comes
with this course.
9. The seven magical squares that come
with this course. 	The Pentacle with the
seven magical squares.
10. The Elemental Polygons (with course),
preferably laminated.
11. A magical robe. The robe is a magi-
cal utensil that represents your removing
yourself from your everyday situations.
A magical utensil has the advantage that
it connects you automatically with spe-
cific forms of energy. With the (well pre-
pared) magical utensil present, you can
free your conscious attention for focus on
the specifics of the magical work that you
are doing. 	As you progress, you will no
longer need to use the robe as well as
you will quit using many of the other magi-
cal utensils. 	You will be able to do so
because you will establish connection with
the energies of your magical utensils with-
out needing their points of manifestation
in the dense material plane.
12. 	Rope, cord, or chalk to make your
triangle and circle.
Preparation:
You are going to do by yourself
much of the magical work and the pro-
jection of magical energy. 	Therefore it
will be good that you use a model of the
universe that enhances your work. 	This
model helps you make use of the struc-
tural linkages that your mind can estab-
lish. 	In this model, we distinguish three
realms.
The first realm is your outer magi-
cal realm. 	This realm contains all the
physical objects that connect with the tar-
get of your operation and with the ener-
gies of a higher order that you direct to-
ward this target. 	It is the set up of your
altar.
The second realm is the realm of
the universes to which you have estab-
lished structural links. 	This includes the
universe (environment in a generalized
meaning) of your target and the magical
hierarchies of the energies that you are
going to use.
The third realm is an imaginary
realm that you create within your mind.
This realm is a structural linkage to the
first and second realms. The third realm
allows you to mentally direct the ener-
gies that you generate in your magical
operation. It is a workspace within your-
self that keeps up a constant connection
with the other two realms. Whatever you
do within this space will have effect on
the other two realms.
The correct setup of the first and
third realms is very important in magical
work. 	This is so because in both these
realms we establish the structural links
to the elements of our action before we
energize the work with life energy. 	An
inadequate structural link will distort our
magical work or it will make it ineffective
all together.
To prepare for your work you go
through the following steps:
1. 	Cleanse yourself, even take a bath.
This is a symbolic act by which you re-
move yourself from the many challenges
of everyday life. Put on the robe. Some
followers of the old religion prefer to prac-
tice nude.
2. 	Decide which talisman you want to
make. 	I suggest a simple love talisman
with a genius from the sphere of Venus,
with the name of "Owina," from Franz
Bardon's "Practice of Magical Evocation"
where he teaches a system of magic of
the spheres that leans on the astrologi-
cal system.
54 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

3. 	Set up the altar. 	Put the universal
pentacle in the middle of the altar, in up-
side down position (the "L" on top).
Charge the universal pentacle. 	Do the
same with all other utensils. You need to
charge utensils only once. You charge the
utensils by projecting life energies into
them as you have learned in lesson 2. Set
up the two candles behind the pentacle,
about 8 inches apart. Put the cup to the
left of the candle, the incense burner to
the right side. 	Put the crystal or penta-
gram on the table between the two
candles. Put the four elemental designs
(triangle, pentagon, square, and penta-
gram) around the universal pentacle. The
triangle will be to the top, the pentagon
to the left, the square to the bottom, and
the pentagram to the right. See the draw-
ing at the end of this lesson.
4. Charge the square of Venus and put it
in the top section of the center part of the
universal pentacle.
5. Charge the Sator Arepo Talisman and
put it below the square of Venus.
6. Lay out the rope or cord in a triangular
shape around the arrangement on your
altar. 	Instead of the rope you may use
three small crystals that you imagine con-
nected with lines.
7. 	With your wand follow the outline of
the triangle, projecting energy into the
lines that the rope defines or into the
imaginary lines that you have set up be-
tween the three crystals. In your imagi-
nation build a tall pyramid with three sides.
Put the base a bit beneath the surface of
your altar.
8. 	Put rope or cord in a circle around
you. 	Imagine a sphere enclosing you.
The circle is part of the sphere. 	Later
you may totally visualize the circle with-
out using a rope.
9. As an added protection you may take
your wand and draw four pentagrams in
the air. Visualize them being on the sur-
face of the sphere. 	Some people like to
add two more pentagrams: 	one on the
bottom part of the sphere and another
one above.
10. Put the talisman in the center part of
the universal pentacle, covering the
square of Venus.
11. Light the incense.
12. Light the candles.
13. Project green energy into the triangle.
You may use your wand for the process
of projecting. Point your wand toward the
triangle. 	Use projection techniques that
you have learned in previous lessons.
14. Call in the entity (Owina).
15. 	Imagine the entity charging the tal-
isman. 	It's up to you how you want to
imagine that.
16. Thank the entity and tell it to leave.
17. Use grounding techniques on the tri-
angle. Ground all free energies. Energies
that are tied to objects will stay there.
18. Take talisman and check for charge.
Use palm of your hand or hold talisman
about 2 inches from forehead.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	55

19. 	Remove utensils.
Note: 	You may use a Welz generator to
power up your triangle. 	In this case use
two transfer designs (structural links). Put
the Venus square and one transfer de-
sign in front of the generator, put the sec-
ond transfer design in the center part of
the universal pentacle. 	Imagine the en-
ergy that comes from the Welz genera-
tor accumulating inside the triangle. Then
call the entity to charge the talisman.
Imagine all the energy in the triangle
(pyramid) to compact into the talisman.
Then check for strength.
Practice #42: 	How to Cast a Spell Us-
ing an Abramelin Square
For this spell you need in principle
the same utensils as you have used to
make a talisman. Then take the Book of
Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage. This
book contains letter squares for many dif-
ferent purposes. 	Select a letter square
that matches best your request.
To prepare for your work you go
through the following steps:
1. 	Cleanse yourself, even take a bath.
This is a symbolic act by which you re-
move yourself from the many challenges
of everyday life. Put on the robe. Some
followers of the old religion prefer to prac-
tice nude.
2. 	Set up the altar. 	Put the universal
pentacle in the middle of the altar, in up-
side down position (the "L" on top). 	Set
up the two candles behind the pentacle,
about 8 inches apart. Put the cup to the
left of the candle, the incense burner to
the right side. 	Put the crystal or penta-
gram on the table between the two
candles. 	Put the four elemental designs
(triangle, pentagon, square, and penta-
gram) around the universal pentacle. The
triangle should be to the top, the penta-
gon to the left, the square to the bottom,
and the pentagram to the right. You need
a large pan with you that you need to
hold the paper when you are burning it.
3. 	Put the magical square of the planet
that reflects the energy of the Abramelin
square that you have chosen in the top
section of the center part of the universal
pentacle.
4. 	Put the Sator Arepo Talisman below
the square of Venus.
5. Lay out the rope or cord in a triangular
shape around the arrangement on your
altar. 	Instead of the rope you may use
three small crystals that you imagine con-
nected with lines.
6. 	With your wand follow the outline of
the triangle, projecting energy into the
lines that the rope defines or into the
imaginary lines that you have set up be-
tween the three crystals. In your imagi-
nation build a tall pyramid with three sides.
Put the base a bit beneath the surface of
your altar.
7. 	Put rope or cord in a circle around
you. Take your wand and trace the circle.
Imagine a sphere enclosing you. 	The
circle is part of the sphere. Later you may
totally visualize the circle without using a
rope.
8. As an added protection you may take
your wand and draw four pentagrams in
the air. Visualize them being on the sur-
face of the sphere. 	Some people like to
add two more pentagrams: 	one on the
bottom part of the sphere and another
one above.
56 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

9. Light the incense.
10. Light the candles.
11. Take a piece of white paper, approxi-
mately 5 inches square, and a pen. 	You
may use a quill and dove blood ink or
dragon's blood ink, depending on the
case.
12. Draw a circle on the square, about 3
inches diameter or more.
The Filter Packs
In the following, you find a set of well-known
and very effective accessories to the Chi
Generators ® and Power Radionics TM Devices.
These accessories, or filters, function as
structural links to a variety of trends. They
are especially advantageous for the person
who has encountered slight challenges when
using radionic devices. All filters cards are
laminated
AoD 48 - The Alphabet of Success
The Alphabet of Success is a
set 	of 	48 	cards 	with
archetypal symbol designs.
These designs are structural
representations (trend links)
that account for most basic
desires that an individual can
have.
Combine the cards and you can set up
appropriate energy filters for most anything you
plan to do: 	From Self-Help to skillful Trend
Management!!!
SZP 20 - Stress-Zapper/Energy-Booster
Pack - 20 cards
We live in an era that is a
multiple daily challenge to
our 	body, 	mind, 	and
emotions. 	This 	is 	so,
because the place where we
are working is not safe, the
food that we are eating is not
safe, and the environment in which we are living
is not safe. 	Therefore, the demands of life are
often more than our body and mind can handle.
The usual results are enormous stress and lack
of energy. That’s where the Stress Zapper and
Energy Booster Pack comes to your relief! Use
this set of tools one to two hours a day, and
you will notice a significant difference in how
you feel: 	relaxed and invigorated! 	More
importantly, you can get a lot more done than
before and you are going to get it done well!
For the person involved in sports, body building
and 	exercising, 	this 	is 	extraordinary
performance enhancement that is legal and
defies detection. Great for weight control!
SXP 20 - The Sex Pack - 20 cards
The Sex-Pack is designed to bridge the gap
between you and total sexual ecstasy with the
partner that fits you best! 	It is a set of
archetypal links with the trends that you can
apply in most situations that arise in a
relationship. For instance, the sex-pack can
help you find this special person who is the
love of your life. Describe the person whom
you want to meet and put the filters of the sex-
pack to work! If you like to cause someone
you know to look more favorably at you, select
the appropriate filters to draw that special
person towards you and boost it with the life
energy from the Welz Chi Generator®! 	To
rekindle an existing relationship and bring
variation into your sex life, the Sex-Pack has
the right filters for this purpose! There is
something for every taste and for every
desire 	in 	this 	extraordinary 	set 	of
archetypal designs!
IN 20 - Super Learning & Intelligence
Pack - 20 cards
The Super Learning and
Intelligence 	Pack 	is
designed to help increase
mental skills! 	Use Self-
Management Techniques to
help boost intelligence and
intuition. 	This exclusive
package can make all lear-
ning and acquiring of new skills what it should
be: 	relaxing, 	easy, 	and 	fun! 	Ideal 	in
combination with low pulse orgone frequencies!
BMP 20 - Business and Money Pack - 20
cards
Pave 	your 	road 	to
spectacular success with the
help of this exciting set of
Tools! Designed to improve
your efficiency, creative
skills, intuition and logic in
business and to get this feel
of money that is so crucial
for your overall success! 	This set contains
also an arsenal of tools that are helpful in your
dealings with other people: business partners,
opponents, 	associates, 	employees,
professionals, etc.
LP 24 - Legal Pack - 20 cards
Covers many situations that come up in legal
matters.
PSP 20 People Skills Pack - 20 cards
It is extra power to help you in dealing with
people, partnerships, public speaking, politics,
etc.
ATD 20 Attack and Defense Pack - 20 cards
An excellent help for protection, to make
attacks at a distance ineffective and for
effective retaliation, designed to calm any
attacker down.
GP 20 Gambling 	Pack - 20 cards
A tool to boost the odds in your favor and at
the same time develop the skills to run gambling
as a business.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	57

13. 	Inside the circle draw a diamond
shape. 	The four corners of the diamond
touch the circle.
14. 	Inside the diamond draw the
Abramelin Square of your choice.
15. 	Inside the four segments between
the outline of the circle and the diamond
you may write the four letters of the Di-
vine name of Yod He Vau He. 	You may
write the letters in capitals (YHVH). Write
the Y in the right top segment, the H in
the left top, the V in the left bottom, and
the second H in the right bottom.
16. 	Inside the diamond, but outside the
Abramelin square write the names of the
persons who are targets of the spell.
17. 	Rub a bit of your saliva on the four
corners of the paper.
18. Put the paper inside the triangle.
19. Project energy into the triangle.
20. 	Imagine the energy condensing on
the paper.
21. Check the paper for power with meth-
ods that you have learned in lesson #2.
22. If necessary continue to charge until
you feel good about the result.
23. Take the paper and hold it to the flame
of one of the two candles. 	Then put the
burning paper into the pan that you have
prepared for that purpose.
24. After the paper has burned close your
ceremony, There is no need to dwell fur-
ther on the spell, since you have sent off
the energy and it will take its own way.
This process compares to dropping a let-
ter into a mailbox: the mail will take care
of it. Ground the remaining energies and
remove utensils.
Note: 	You may use a Welz generator to
power up your triangle and charge the
Abramelin Square. 	In this case use two
transfer designs (structural links). Put one
transfer design in front of the generator,
put the second transfer design in the cen-
ter part of the universal pentacle. Imag-
ine the energy that comes from the Welz
generator accumulating inside the tri-
angle. 	Imagine all the energy in the tri-
angle (pyramid) to compact into the
Abramelin square. 	Then check for
strength.
Practice #43: How to Clear a Person
Clearing of a person is a standard
practice for magicians. 	There are many
reasons for which a clearing may become
necessary. 	Persons who are involved in
magical practice but who do not have yet
the authority to control energies of a
higher order ("spirits" may become pos-
sessed. The entity that has a good men-
tal capability seeks to gain a permanent
point to manifest. 	This process is like a
stone falling to the ground. It's a natural
characteristic of any entity, even a "good"
one. 	It's preferable not to be possessed
by any entity - neither by a demon nor by
an angel. 	A human being with its Divine
spark is born to have control at all times.
Possession by a demon, an angel, or a
channeled entity is against human nature.
Consequently human beings have a de-
sire to rid themselves from these entities.
There are many ways in which posses-
sion can occur. 	Sometimes temporary
possession is used as an effective magi-
cal practice. Usually the persons who work
with the means of temporary possession
protect themselves before doing so. This
is the case in many traditional religious
practices that include temporary posses-
sion. 	Many of the "channels" do not re-
alize the dangers of possession. Further-
more, they do not know how to protect
themselves. "White Light" is highly insuf-
ficient against skilled beings that wait in
the astral plane for manifestation in the
material world. 	Another way a person
can become possessed is by means of
58 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

attaching an entity to that person. A mild
form of possession can be consistent
negativity of the person. 	Such an atti-
tude builds up an entity whose only inter-
est is to preserve this state of negativity.
This is so because it gets its life from the
negativity of the person. Possession be-
comes a problem when the person can-
not get out of this state naturally. In such
cases a clearing is needed.
Clearings can be done in many
ways. 	The person may be strengthened
to a point where self clearing is possible.
Another way is to attack the entity within
the person and either destroy it or remove
it. 	Kin to this way is the method to dis-
rupt the structure of the entity by con-
necting destructive energy to its struc-
tural link. Finally we can use another en-
tity that is stronger to get rid of the pos-
sessing entity. Here too we have two ways
to deal with the problem. 	The better of
the two is in the case where the person
who clears has control over the entity that
clears. 	The other method is the way of
the clerical exorcist. The possessing en-
tity is replaced with the collective egregor
(god) of the religion to which the cleric
belongs.
The clearing that I am going to
describe in the following requires from the
practitioner that he or she is well in con-
trol of any entity. 	If this is not the case,
the practitioner may become possessed.
If you do a clearing of this type
you need also be well familiar with the
methods of directing life energy as I have
described in the second lesson.
It will be also useful if you can vi-
sualize well the symbol below. 	It is a
blasting glyph. This is a design that shat-
ters any kind of entity as you direct it
against it. 	If you wield it toward the en-
tity you need to direct the top part (the
three points) toward the entity.
To clear a person you start by sur-
rounding the person with a bubble. Have
this bubble about two feet away from the
person.
The next thing you do is to focus
into the center of the person, around the
solar plexus area. 	From there you ex-
pand slowly a bubble. You may have stud-
ded this bubble with blasting glyphs. This
procedure makes the touching of the
bubble a deadly thing for any entity that
is between it and the outer bubble. 	Ex-
pand the bubble more and more until it
touches the outer sphere. 	You may run
into some obstacles in your procedure.
It will be good if you practice with
simple clearing of negativity. Only after a
lot of practice should you go on to work in
more heavy duty clearing situations.
A BRIEF INTRODUCTION IN
SYSTEMS OF STRUCTURAL
LINKS
This part of the course offers you a
brief introduction in some magical meth-
ods and their underlying symbolisms. You
may select some of the systems that fol-
low as a good basis for your further work
and studies. I will give some emphasis to
the systems that I personally have cho-
sen to work with. 	This does not mean
that you should practice with the same
systems.
Systems of magic have the advan-
tage that they provide you with a ready-
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	59

to-use magical hierarchy. Each of the el-
ements of the hierarchy has specific at-
tributes. 	What you do then with such a
system is combine its elements for any
one purpose that you desire.
There are methods of magical tech-
nology that do not use any magical hier-
archy at all. 	Magicians who use these
methods custom tailor their own struc-
tural link to an energy of a higher order.
This works because of the flexibility of the
planes of finer densities. Fact is that any
intelligently composed system will bring
about a connection with the energies that
are part of these planes. 	Even with ar-
rays of symbols a skilled magician can es-
tablish such connections.
1. 	DIRECT 	STRUCTURAL
LINKS
In the first part I am going to in-
troduce you to a few methods that are
not symbolisms or arrays of symbols.
These are methods that the magician uses
to establish direct structural links with
HOE's. 	This method has the advantage
of immense flexibility. The magician can
formulate any desired trend and estab-
lish a structural link that brings in the cor-
responding HOE, or entity. 	Such meth-
ods require no "secret knowledge" of any
hierarchy of magical energies, no mythol-
ogy, and no religion.
1.1. 	Radionics
The core of the radionics device op-
erates with electronic parts: 	mainly po-
tentiometers and variable capacitors.
These parts are connected to each other
and you can set their individual values with
dials. You set the dials with the help of a
stick pad or pendulum. The mental focus
on the target with which you intend to
establish a structural link is essential in
this operation.
With a radionics device you can es-
tablish structural links with anything you
want. 	The setting of the dials is called
"rate" of that target, or trend.
Radionics operators found that the
wiring diagram of a radionics device can
establish a structural link just as well as
the device itself, provided that the rate is
inscribed in it. 	If you have studied the
lessons 3 and 4, i.e., the theories con-
cerning structural links and equivalent
structural links, you will understand why
this is so.
Modern researchers have added a
great deal of electronic gadgetry, pyra-
mids, crystals, computers, and other "pe-
ripherals" to the basic radionic device.
Many of these gadgets have a symbolic
character, most of the time to increase
the effect of the radionics device or to di-
rect the device easier into a specific di-
rection. Good examples are amplifiers to
increase power output, walkie-talkies to
help telepathic transfer, and helmets to
increase power. Most amplifying gadgets
are unnecessary for the magician who has
realized that structures transfer through
hyper spaces and that strong fields of life
energy ease such transfer. 	With a Welz
generator of life energy amplifying gad-
gets are obsolete. 	Other symbolic gad-
gets are already inherent in the simple
radionics device, provided that the opera-
tor knows how to set it.
Some of the attachments to radi-
onics devices help the operator find the
rate with more ease. A second radionics
device in conjunction with a Welz genera-
tor will do such a job. 	Presently we are
working on additional methods to help the
operator find the rate easier.
I see the radionics device as a uni-
versal magical sigil. 	You describe what
you want and you establish a setting that
corresponds to your wish. 	This setting
connects you with the energy of a higher
order that will generate the desired trend.
60 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

Combinations of Equipment,
Kits, Work Stations
For Your Successful Practice Of Self-Help, Neuro-
Cybernetic Programming TM
, General Trend Man-
agement, and Electronic Mind Control
Self-Help to improve intuition, creativity, men-
tal capability, energy, relaxation, balance, inner
peace
Neuro-Cybernetic Programming TM (NCP) to
change trends of your life path and for protec-
tion
Trend-Management and Trend-Creation to
cause abundance, prosperity, and a suitable en-
vironment for all.
Electronic Mind Control for full control of the
environment
Self Help can now be more effective and faster
for you than ever before. With the invention of
the new Welz Chi Generator®, the use of Light-
Sound Devices as mind machines have become
a thing of the past ... obsolete! 	This is so,
becauces with the new Welz Chi Generator you
can now easily induce brain wave states such as
Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Theta the natural way!
The LPOG 2400 series and the RAD 2400 HD were
designed specifically for that purpose! This works
exceedingly well also in situations, when when
you have to transfer life force that pulsates in
ELF (Extreme Low Frequency or brain wave fre-
quency) to yourself at a distance. 	Naturally you
can enjoy its effects and benefits fully anywhere
you are! The Welz Chi Generator® in your home
transfers energy to you wherever you are --
whether just a few blocks away or half around
the globe. You have found proof of this exciting
fact with the transfer test.
SELF-HELP! -- At the Turn of a Dial….
Stress Management: Total Relaxation, Bal-
ance, and Inner Peace in Minutes
Mind Management: Speed Learning, Intelli-
gence, Intuition, Creativity
Energy 	Management: 	Stamina,
Energy,Discipline, Decisiveness, Persistence
Basic Equipment:
The SHK 001 Self Help Kit #1:
The JU 99 CE and RI 2400 CD Power
Radionics TM Program
NEURO-CYBERNETIC PROGRAMMINGTM
The kits for NCP have another feature that’s ex-
citing: Attach the structural limk to a specific de-
sired trend to it and you have a powerful ma-
chine that you can use to help change your hab-
its and life itself!!! We call this process Neuro-
Cybernetic Porgramming or, brief, NCP. With NCP
you can now design programs for success in any
one of your endeavors such as....
Money- and Business Management: Money,
Sales, Success, Security, Beat the Odds
Relationship Management: Marriage, Chil-
dren, Love, Friendship, Charisma.
Communications Management: Leadership,
Convincing Speech, Power, Popularity
Middle of the Line Equipment:
NCPK 	002 	-- 	Neuro-Cybernetic
ProgrammingTM Kit #2:
The LPOG 2400 DL and PR 2400 CD Power
Radionics Program
NCPK 003 -- Neuro-Cybernetic Pro-
gramming Kit #3:
The RAD 2000 and PR 2000 CD Power Radi-
onics Program
You can use Trend-Management and Trend-Cre-
ation in success strategies designed to cause
abundance, prosperity, and a suitable environ-
ment for all.
Top of the Line Equipment:
EXP 002 Expert Kit #2, Heavy Duty
Trend Management and Trend Creation
The RAD 2400 HD Radionics Device (Top of
the Line), with the PR 2000 CD Power
Radionics TM Program
EXP 003 Expert Kit #3, Heavy Duty Per-
formance Boosting in Fitness, Body
Building, Sports Competition, etc.
The Performer 2400 Heavy Duty Specialty
Welz Chi Generator, with the EPM 2400 and
the PR 2000 CD Radionics Program for PC
Equipment for Electronic Mind
Control:
HSCTI Equipment for electronic mind control has
been specifically designed to give you the ulti-
mate edge in power and versatility in anything
you decide to do. The Electronic Mind Control Sys-
tem (EMCS) can be the decisive factor in situa-
tions where you find it necessary to gain total
control.
EMCS-X 3000 - Electronic Mind Control
System #1
The RAD 5 Advanced Orgone Radionics TM
System, with the PR 2000 CD Power
Radionics TM Program for PC
EMCS-X 3000 PLUS - Electronic Mind
Control System, Advanced Version
The ATGS 3000 Astro Trend Generating Sys-
tem, with the PR 2000 CD Power RadionicsTM
Program for PC
By adding devices and connecting them,
you can upgrade your equipment into an
increasingly more powerful work station,
the effectiveness and versatility of which
will always be more than the sum total
of its components.
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	61

A good radionics device is the RAD
2000 from HSCTI.
1.2. Self generated magical sigils.
Lately several methods became
fashionable in which the magician designs
the sigil of exactly what the desire is.
Various methods of making such graphic
designs are available. 	Some use letters
and combine them to a sigil. Others make
use of symbols and designs and combine
these to a magical sigil.
1.3. Sound pitches.
Sound pitches compare to settings
of a radionics device. Instead of the dials
you have one or more frequency genera-
tors. 	You write down your wish and es-
tablish the sound frequency pattern that
establishes a structural link with the cor-
responding HOE or target. 	If you feed
the sound frequency into the inner coil of
a Welz generator you have the means to
establish a more powerful link and to
transfer the HOE to any desired target with
more ease. 	HSCTI offers devices that
generate sound frequencies.
1.4. Mantras
You can generate words of power
in a similar way as you generate sound
frequencies and radionics rates. 	Many
"secret words of power" have their origin
this way. The persons who consider such
words of power "secret" are not aware of
the fact that any magician can generate
the same type mantras if he/she is knowl-
edgeable of the basic principles of equiva-
lent structural links. HSCTI offers a man-
tra generator that is easy to use. 	Set
your mantra and chant it to attract spe-
cific entities or connect with any target
of your choice.
1.5. Letter squares
Yes! 	This includes the famous
squares that appear in the Book of Sa-
cred 	magic of Abramelin the Mage. 	A
"root word" in any language may con-
nect with a basic desire. 	The other let-
ters are arranged more or less regular so
that the desire becomes more specific.
You can use the mantra generator from
HSCTI to generate your own letter
squares that serve your own very spe-
cific purposes! We have all 240 Abramelin
squares available as laminated cards.
2. 	SYMBOLISMS 	AS 	SYS-
TEMS 	OF 	STRUCTURAL
LINKS
Symbolisms have the advantage to
give you some insights into the workings
of the universe. In this respect they com-
pare to mythologies. 	Most symbolisms
connect with observable elements of our
environment such as the movement of the
planets in the sky. 	I view the system of
astrology as being a radionics device of
cosmic proportions. 	HSCTI offers a de-
vice that is similar in structure. With this
device you can generate any astrological
trend that you desire and direct it to any
target.
Symbolisms have inherent struc-
tures. If you know the structure of a sym-
bolism and the meaning of one of its ele-
ments, you can derive the meanings of
all its other symbols.
For a specific purpose you need to
combine the elements of a symbolism.
This required a thorough knowledge of the
structure of the symbolism.
Some symbolisms are of an artifi-
cial nature. Others, such as the four ele-
ments, the four planes, the astrological
symbolism and the Eighteen Futhork
Runes, connect with real energies of our
environment. Mythologies correspond to
our psychological and psychic environ-
ments. Most useful are mythologies that
correspond to the astrological structure.
62 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com

I do not recommend that you get
involved in artificial symbolisms. 	This is
so because most of these artificial sym-
bolisms are little more than arrays of sym-
bols. 	You can generate desired effects
much easier with the individual methods
of direct structural links that I explained
above. 	This fact makes study of these
"systems" more a luxury than something
useful. Many "mystery schools" of course,
love to teach the unsuspecting novices the
"secret knowledge" of such arrays of sym-
bols. 	Typically the novice who usually is
not allowed to study anything else is soon
convinced that such "secret knowledge"
is the best system there is. 	I pointed it
out above and I repeat it here:
Tradition kills the creative mind!
2.1. The Elements and the Planes
A fine system that corresponds to
a good mapping of the magical universe.
The elemental spirits that magicians con-
nect with seem to be arrays of symbols
within the specific elemental realms. You
could classify them according to astrologi-
cal and/or runic guidelines.
2.2. The Eighteen Furthork Runes.
The eighteen Runes are often re-
ferred to as the "Armanen System." They
connect with the periodic system of chemi-
cal elements, hence they correspond to
energies of the creative realms. The en-
ergies that correspond to these Runes are
of a defining nature rather than a defined
one. 	Other Runic systems are mere ar-
rays. 	They are O.K. to do readings with
and for some magic, but they cannot con-
nect you with the realms of creative en-
ergies. 	To study the magic of the Eigh-
teen Futhork Runes you have the choice
of several courses: 	The Basic Rune
Course, the Rune Yoga/Rune Healing
course, and the Rune Reading Course. 	I
have authored these courses more than
10 years ago and I have trained well over
1000 students all over the world in this
system. Ask for more details from HSCTI.
2.3. The Astrological System, the
Cabalah, and the Tarot
Here we have to do with a system
of well defined ("created") energies.
These energies correspond to the struc-
ture of our Solar system. 	I mention the
three together, because the cabalistic sys-
tem and the Tarot can be derived from
the astrological symbolism. The Cabalah
is a representation of the zodiac. Its nu-
meric structure is derived from the nu-
meric relationships that are valid for the
Solar system.
I recommend that you purchase a
good introduction into astrology. 	This
serves you to learn the meanings of the
planets, houses, and signs. Another book
of value is "The Tarot of the Bohemians"
by Papus. 	In this work Papus explains
the structure of the Tarot. 	To get more
insights into the meanings of the Tarot
cards I recommend any one of the books
by Eden Gray: Mastering the Tarot or the
Tarot Unveiled. 	My deck of choice is the
Rider Tarot Deck. 	I prefer it because of
the accuracy of the cabalistic symbolism
it represents. 	If you use the Tarot for
readings only, you can choose any one of
the hundreds of decks that are on the
market. HSCTI can supply you with these
books plus a book on tarot spells and a
set of astrological symbols.
2.4. 	The Bardonian system of
Magic of the Spheres
This is a magical hierarchy of more
than 600 entities that are grouped into
planetary spheres and elemental realms.
You find the structural link (symbol) of
each entity plus a description of its realm
of action in the book "The Practice of Magi-
cal Evocation" by Franz Bardon. You may
Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com 	63

order the books of Franz Bardon from
HSCTI.
2.5. The Entities of the Lesser Key
of Solomon the King.
Another name for the Lesser Key
of Solomon is The Lemegeton. 	It con-
tains a hierarchy of 72 entities with a de-
scription of their action.
2.6. The Entities and the Talismans
of Doctor Johannes Faust's Black
Raven.
I have translated this book from
German into English. 	It contains refer-
ences to 30 entities and about 20 talis-
mans. 	Doctor Faust's book is a classic
grimoire in Germany. 	I recommend nei-
ther the Lemegeton nor the Black Raven
to any untrained magician.
2.7. 	Any Mythology.
Many magical systems are based
on religions. 	The deities of the religions
form useful hierarchies of structural links
with energies of a higher order. Examples
are the systems of Voodoo, Santeria,
Shintoism, Shamanism, Wicca, and Ti-
betan religion.
CONCLUSION:
This course was designed to give
you a sound scientific basis for your prac-
tice of magic. If you have studied it well,
I am confident that you have gained a
deeper understanding in the workings of
this science and that you will no longer
fail in your magical practices.
I am preparing a course for ad-
vanced students that goes more into de-
tail in specific fields of magic.
If you have any questions regard-
ing this course, do not hesitate to call
HSCTI at (770) 924 0223. Our magicians
will give you the guidance that you re-
quest.
For free courses, see
www.magitech.com, www.HSCTI.com,
www.magickcourse.com,
www.runemagick.com
www.astrologycourse.com
www.tarotspells.net
www.talisman-magick.com
www.autoaura.com
www.meditrance.com
Magical Symbols:
www.grimoires.com
where you can also find free grimoires:
Key of Solomon, Abramelin and others
Sports Performance:
www.eliteboost.com
Radionics:
www.radionics.org
Water Optimizer:
www.chienergizer.com
64 	Tel. 770 924 0223 	www.hscti.com - e-mail: sales@hscti.com
